Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the shareholders of Direct Line Insurance Group plc Opinion on the financial statements of Direct Line Going concern and the Directors assessment of the Insurance Group plc principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Directors statement on page 56 regarding the appropriateness of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at of the going concern basis of accounting to the financial 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term then ended: viability of the Group.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the Directors confirmation on page 56 that they have IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the financial statements have been prepared in accordance the Group, including those that would threaten its business with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the disclosures on pages 28 to 29 that describe those risks the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income the Directors statement on page 56 about whether they statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the of accounting in preparing the financial statements and their consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements, the identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 equity and the related notes 1 to 40 on the consolidated months from the date of approval of the financial statements: financial statements, and the related notes 1 to 17 on the Parent the Directors explanation on pages 56 to 57 as to how Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law what period they have done so and why they consider that and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they the IASB fall due over the period of their assessment, including any As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation qualifications or assumptions.
to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern Accounting Standards Board IASB.
basis of accounting and we did not identify any material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting The assessed risks of material misstatement described below Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those of the engagement team.
The procedures described in our standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the response to each risk are not exhaustive and we have focused prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
on those procedures that we consider address areas of judgement or subjectivity: see overleaf.
com 101 Independent Auditors report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The methodology and assumptions used in setting We have tested the design and implementation and operating insurance reserves effectiveness of the key controls over the end-to-end reserving process, including the controls over the inputs and outputs for the Insurance reserves include the Groups insurance liabilities actuarial best estimate ABE and the controls for setting of the from continuing business totalling 4.5 billion, as detailed margin above ABE.
The determination of the value of the insurance reserves requires significant judgement in the selection of key We also tested the completeness and accuracy of the assumptions and methodologies.
The Group has indicated to underlying data used in the actuarial calculations through the market that assuming current claims trends continue, the performing reconciliations on the data back to the financial contribution from prior-year reserve releases is expected to ledger and the actuarial data used by our Deloitte actuarial remain significant, albeit lower than in 2014.
Management specialists in performing their audit.
exercises significant judgement in respect of the trends in bodily injury claims frequency and severity, the speed of Having done this, we worked with those specialists to: recognition of emerging data and trends, the propensity for consider the suitability of the methodology used in setting large claims to settle as periodic payment orders PPOs, insurance reserves against industry benchmarks: the likely outcome of the Governments consultation on the Ogden discount rate used by the courts to calculate claims challenge managements key assumptions and judgements for long-term damages and other regulatory developments.
particularly in relation to the cost per claim for the floods against industry benchmarks: There were a number of weather events at the end of 2015 assess whether the reserving methodology has been which caused severe flooding across the UK.
Management has applied consistently across periods: exercised judgement in the determination of the full extent of the claims.
Therefore the scope of this risk was extended to include evaluate prior-year reserve releases and emerging trends the valuation of the additional provision for these events.
for consistency with managements methodology: and challenge managements identification of items to be included in the margin above ABE, to perform sensitivity analysis on the range of potential scenarios and assess the consistency of the point within the range that the margin is set.
In addition to this, we have performed work to understand the sensitivity of insurance reserves to changes in key assumptions and methodology, as well as reviewed the actuarial disclosure in the Annual Report.
The valuation of investments held at fair value, derivatives and We have tested the design and implementation and operating loan loss provisioning effectiveness of controls over the investment valuation process.
We attended the year-end impairment review meeting in order The Groups financial investments shown in note 26 represent to assess the operation of a key management review control.
the largest number on the balance sheet, 5.6 billion.
As the Groups investments portfolio has diversified, the risk associated We have tested the valuation of securitised credit instruments with valuation has increased over instruments where market where an observable market price could not be obtained by prices are not always readily available, such as securitised engaging our pricing and valuation specialists to calculate credit assets or infrequently traded assets.
These investments independent valuations using a discounted cash flow are typically more illiquid, resulting in reduced availability of approach.
We have used our financial instrument specialists observable inputs and therefore increased judgement in their to test the macro hedge arrangements, valuation of the related valuation.
The valuation of the Groups derivatives, held in financial instruments and the accounting treatment applied.
order to hedge interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, is We have engaged our credit specialists to challenge the also deemed to be complex, with small differences in interest methodology used in the assessment of credit risk within the rate curves resulting in material valuation changes.
Management are required to assess financial assets for In addition, we have checked that the Groups disclosures indications of impairment.
Where limited observable market satisfy the requirements of IFRS 7 and IFRS 13.
We have inputs are available, this requires management to exercise reviewed the classification and accounting treatment of the increased judgement.
The infrastructure debt portfolio has Groups investment portfolio in line with the accounting increased by 330% to 330 million in the year and is held at policies set out in note 1.12 to the financial statements.
There are no readily observable market inputs for this portfolio and so this has resulted in an increased risk of material misstatement.
102 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 102 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk IT control environment We have tested the design, implementation and operating In May 2015, the Group essentially finished their planned effectiveness of general IT controls around key IT processes on programme of transitioning IT infrastructure from RBS Group to the applications and the migrated infrastructure, with a focus on access security, change management and operational an independently hosted data centre.
In addition, management controls, and have understood the governance process over have a number of ongoing projects to assess and improve the the infrastructure migration itself.
Our audit procedures also IT control environment.
Due to the significant change in the included testing additional business controls and site visits to IT environment, there is an increased risk that the underlying the hosted UK data centre to test the physical access controls IT infrastructure controls supporting key financial reporting and the operational offices in India.
We have also reviewed processes might not adequately mitigate the risk of material the scope of managements ongoing project to improve the financial misstatement.
IT environment and tailored our audit approach to take into account the findings and changes implemented as at the time of our audit.
Transformation projects We have tested the design and implementation and operating There is a risk that the transformation programme, which effectiveness of key business processes that have been subject to change.
For example, we have tested the operating includes outsourcing and offshoring, could impact the financial effectiveness of controls at a number of outsourced locations, reporting control environment, in particular where processes involving site visits by the audit team.
When testing the controls and controls have changed operation and location.
There is that had been impacted by the transformation programme, our also a risk that the change will cause management stretch testing focused on identifying that there remained an appropriate which could impact on the effectiveness of existing internal level of review and segregation of duties in the process.
There is a risk that there may no longer be an appropriate level of review or adequate segregation of duties.
Reinsurance asset valuation We have tested the design and implementation and operating The valuation of the reinsurance asset, 1 billion in respect effectiveness of the key controls over the reinsurance asset of the ceded part of the insurance reserves, as detailed in measurement and valuation process.
We reviewed a sample note 22, requires significant judgement to reflect the credit risk of reinsurance contracts and assessed whether their terms exposure to long-term assets arising from periodic payment are correctly applied.
In addition, management refined their methodology for We have assessed the relevance and reliability of the data calculating the reinsurance bad debt.
There is also a risk that used in the calculation by reviewing the data against reinsurance treaty terms and actuarial assumptions are not observable market inputs and other supporting documentation.
correctly applied when performing reinsurance valuations.
To test the credit risk exposure, we engaged our credit and actuarial specialists in order to assess the reasonableness and appropriateness of the reinsurance bad debt valuation methodology and assumptions used.
This included the distribution of withdrawals within the transitional matrix which estimates the probability of default at a point in time, the basis for allocating cash flows across future periods, and the selection of scenarios applied to calculate the renewed recovery rates.
Revenue recognition We have tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key controls over revenue recognition, Due to the large number of policies underwritten by the Group there is a risk that the revenue recorded in the financial focusing on the flow of information from the underwriting statements and the flow of premium information from the systems to the financial reporting ledger.
We have performed underwriting systems to the financial reporting ledger is not substantive testing of the flow of data from system downloads complete and accurate.
through to posting in the general ledger.
In addition, we performed substantive analytical testing procedures on the gross and unearned premium balances.
com 103 Independent Auditors report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued Last year our report included a risk around IT migration, An overview of the scope of our audit which has been captured within the IT control environment risk The scope of our Group audit was determined by obtaining description.
This is due to the migration programme finishing an understanding of the Group and its environment, including early in the year but there still being a significant level of Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material change in the IT control environment during the year.
misstatement at the Group level.
Due to the completion of the International disposal in 2015, The description of risks above should be read in conjunction our Group audit scope has focused on the UK as this is now with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee the Groups single trading location.
In addition, we perform discussed on page 59.
These matters were addressed in the site visits at the Groups key outsourcers.
Two entities in the UK context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, were subject to a full audit, and a further two were subject to and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide an audit of specified account balances where the extent of our a separate opinion on these matters.
testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the These four entities represent the principal business units and financial statements that makes it probable that the economic account for 99% 2014: 98% of the Groups net assets, 92% decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 2014: 99% of the Groups gross earned premium and 93% changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the 2014: 95% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
We have determined that the critical benchmark for the Group Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality was average profit before tax from ongoing operations.
This applicable to each individual entity which were lower than measure uses a three-year average of profit before tax, Group materiality.
excluding the impact of discontinued activities and transformation costs to exclude the effect of year-on-year volatility.
We At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation calculated materiality for the Group to be process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our 28 million 2014: 28 million, which is below 5.2% 2014: conclusion that there were no significant risks of material 6.5% of average profit before tax from ongoing operations.
misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the We also considered this measure to be suitable having remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified compared to other benchmarks: our materiality is 5.7% of account balances.
The Group audit team also performs the statutory profit before tax, 0.8% of gross earned premium and audit of the UK entities, which account for 100% of the below 1.4% of equity.
Group materiality is used for setting audit Groups net assets and 95% of the Groups profit before tax.
scope and the assessment of uncorrected misstatements.
The Group audit team was responsible for both the UK Materialities are set for each significant component in line with location and Group audit.
the components proportion of the chosen benchmark.
This is capped at the lower of 90% of Group materiality and the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies component materiality calculated for a standalone audit.
The Act 2006 main UK insurance trading entity, which makes up 94% of In our opinion: Group revenue and 66% of Group statutory profit before tax, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is scoped to a component materiality of 24.8 million 2014: has been properly prepared in accordance with the 25.1million.
We determine performance materiality at a Companies Act 2006: and level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed the information given in the Strategic report and the materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
The audit Directors report for the financial year for which the testing for U K Insurance Limited is carried out to a performance financial statements are prepared is consistent with the materiality of 17.4 million 2014: 17.6 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 560,000 2014: 560,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
104 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 104 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities you if, in our opinion: statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give we have not received all the information and explanations a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express we require for our audit: or an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology not been received from branches not visited by us: or and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are the Parent Company financial statements are not in effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and agreement with the accounting records and returns.
systems include our dedicated professional standards review We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
team and independent partner reviews.
Directors remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys members, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors so that we might state to the Companys members those remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by arising from these matters.
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a Corporate governance statement body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the we have formed.
part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Scope of the audit of the financial statements Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts arising from our review.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys in the Annual Report is: circumstances and have been consistently applied and materially inconsistent with the information in the audited adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant financial statements: or accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited in the course of performing our audit: or financial statements and to identify any information that is otherwise misleading.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course In particular, we are required to consider whether we have of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that implications for our report.
they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
David Rush FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 29 February 2016 www.
com 105 Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Continuing operations Gross earned premium 6 3,110.1 3,144.2 Reinsurance premium 6 189.2 157.5 Net earned premium 6 2,920.9 2,986.7 Investment return 7 198.1 215.1 Instalment income 100.1 100.4 Other operating income 8 50.7 46.9 Total income 3,269.8 3,349.1 Insurance claims 9 1,829.3 1,778.6 Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 9 162.4 51.2 Net insurance claims 9 1,666.9 1,727.4 Commission expenses 10 319.3 354.0 Operating expenses 11 738.5 776.0 Total expenses 1,057.8 1,130.0 Operating profit 545.1 491.7 Finance costs 12 37.6 37.2 Gain on disposal of subsidiary 21 2.3 Profit before tax 507.5 456.8 Tax charge 13 108.3 97.5 Profit from continuing operations, net of tax 399.2 359.3 Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 5A 181.2 13.3 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 580.4 372.6 Earnings per share: Continuing operations: Basic pence 16 27.9 24.0 Diluted pence 16 27.6 23.8 Continuing and discontinued operations: Basic pence 16 40.6 24.9 Diluted pence 16 40.1 24.7 The attached notes on pages 111 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
106 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 106 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Profit for the year 580.4 372.6 Other comprehensive loss income Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension scheme 33 6.7 2.8 Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 14 1.6 0.6 5.1 2.2 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 14.4 14.5 Cash flow hedges 1.4 1.3 Fair value loss gain on AFS investments 29 100.5 97.2 Less: realised net gains on AFS investments included in income statement 29 44.3 22.8 Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 29 34.6 17.6 97.2 43.6 Other comprehensive loss income for the year net of tax 92.1 45.8 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the Company 488.3 418.4 The attached notes on pages 111 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
com 107 Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 18 524.8 517.5 Property, plant and equipment 19 186.3 181.3 Investment property 20 347.4 307.2 Reinsurance assets 22 1,011.4 862.5 Current tax assets 14 0.1 0.1 Deferred acquisition costs 23 203.8 208.4 Insurance and other receivables 24 955.8 959.9 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 110.9 107.9 Derivative financial instruments 25 19.6 27.3 Retirement benefit asset 33 13.1 3.5 Financial investments 26 5,614.6 5,961.2 Cash and cash equivalents 27 963.7 880.4 Assets held for sale 5C 5.1 1,208.4 Total assets 9,956.6 11,225.6 Equity 2,630.0 2,810.5 Liabilities Subordinated liabilities 30 521.1 526.3 Insurance liabilities 31 4,524.5 4,674.1 Unearned premium reserve 32 1,476.6 1,434.2 Borrowings 27 61.3 69.8 Derivative financial instruments 25 46.4 29.4 Trade and other payables including insurance payables 35 656.5 660.6 Deferred tax liabilities 14 29.9 20.6 Current tax liabilities 14 10.3 35.7 Liabilities held for sale 5C 964.4 Total liabilities 7,326.6 8,415.1 Total equity and liabilities 9,956.6 11,225.6 The attached notes on pages 111 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 29 February 2016.
They were signed on its behalf by: John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 108 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 108 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December 2015 Foreign Employee Nonexchange Total Share trust Capital Revaluation distributable translation Retained shareholders capital shares reserves reserve reserve reserve earnings equity Notes m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2014 150.0 10.2 1,450.0 58.8 92.8 0.1 1,048.5 2,790.0 Profit for the year 372.6 372.6 Other comprehensive income 56.8 13.2 2.2 45.8 Dividends 15 401.1 401.1 Transfer to non-distributable reserve 29 32.1 32.1 Shares acquired by employee trusts 4.4 4.4 Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 34 6.6 6.6 Shares distributed by employee trusts 1.0 1.0 Tax on share-based payments 14 1.0 1.0 Balance at 31 December 2014 150.0 13.6 1,450.0 115.6 124.9 13.1 996.7 2,810.5 Profit for the year 580.4 580.4 Other comprehensive loss 110.2 13.0 5.1 92.1 Dividends 15 666.0 666.0 Transfer to non-distributable reserve 29 28.0 28.0 Shares acquired by employee trusts 17.8 17.8 Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 34 12.1 12.1 Shares distributed by employee trusts 11.0 11.0 Tax on share-based payments 2.9 2.9 Balance at 31 December 2015 150.0 20.4 1,450.0 5.4 152.9 0.1 892.2 2,630.0 The attached notes on pages 111 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
com 109 Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Net cash generated from used by operating activities before investment of insurance assets 36 42.1 410.6 Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 36 503.1 1,121.1 Net cash generated from operating activities 545.2 710.5 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 67.9 86.7 Purchases of intangible assets 75.5 92.8 Purchases of assets held for sale 12.6 Proceeds on disposals of assets held for sale 7.1 0.8 Net cash flows from disposal acquisition of subsidiaries 327.1 24.7 Net cash generated from used by investing activities 190.8 216.0 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 15 666.0 401.1 Finance costs 38.2 37.9 Purchase of employee trust shares 17.8 4.4 Net cash used by financing activities 722.0 443.4 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 14.0 51.1 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 898.2 853.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 9.8 6.1 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 27 902.4 898.2 The attached notes on pages 111 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
110 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 110 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Corporate information IAS 19 amended, Employee Benefits The amendment simplifies the accounting for employee contributions in respect Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company of defined benefit plans that are independent of the number registered in England and Wales company number of years of service.
The address of the registered office is Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR1 1DP, England.
IAS 24 amended, Related Party Disclosures The amendment provides additional clarification as to when an 1.
Accounting policies entity which provides managerial services is a related party.
Basis of preparation As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of IAS 40 amended, Investment Property The amendment the EU IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements clarifies that IFRS 3 should be used to assess whether a are prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB transaction is the purchase of an asset or a business combination.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and full compliance with IFRSs 1.1 Basis of consolidation as issued by the IASB.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled The consolidated financial statements are prepared on by the Group at 31 December 2015 and 31 December the historical cost basis except for AFS financial assets, 2014.
Control exists when the Group is exposed, or has investment property and derivative financial instruments, rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity which are measured at fair value.
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
In assessing if the Group controls another entity, The Companys financial statements and the Groups the existence and effect of the potential voting rights that are consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, currently exercisable or convertible are considered.
which is the functional currency of the Company.
Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the The International segment was classified as a discontinued financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting operation and International assets and liabilities have been policies used into line with those used by the Group.
The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the years ended 31 December 2015 and Adoption of new and revised standards 31 December 2014 to items considered material to the The following amendments have been adopted in the year consolidated financial statements.
and have not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements: A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until the IFRS 2 amended, Share-Based Payment The amendment date the Group ceases to control it.
On acquisition of a defines performance condition and service condition.
subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements IFRS 3 amended, Business Combinations The first at fair value.
amendment deals with the accounting for contingent consideration in a business combination and the second All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses amendment clarifies that joint arrangements, not just joint between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
ventures, are outside the scope of IFRS 3.
1.2 Foreign currencies IFRS 8 amended, Operating Segments The first The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented amendment clarifies that an entity must disclose the judgements in Sterling which is the presentational currency of the Group.
made by management in applying the aggregation criteria Group entities record transactions in the currency of the and the second amendment clarifies when a reconciliation primary economic environment in which they operate their of segment assets to total assets is required to be disclosed.
functional currency, translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and IFRS 13 amended, Fair Value Measurement The liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into amendment clarifies that the portfolio exception in IFRS 13 the relevant functional currency at the foreign exchange rates can also be applied to other contracts within the scope of ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences IFRS 9 or IAS 39. arising on the settlement of foreign currency transactions IAS 16 amended, Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are 38 amended, Intangible Assets These amendments clarify reported in the income statement.
that an asset may be revalued by reference to observable data either by adjusting the gross carrying amount of the asset to Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies market value or by determining the market value of the carrying that are stated at fair value are translated into the relevant value and adjusting the gross carrying amount proportionately functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the so that the resulting carrying amount equals the market value.
dates the values are determined.
Translation differences arising In addition, they also clarify that accumulated depreciation on non-monetary items measured at fair value are recognised and amortisation is the difference between gross and carrying in the income statement except for differences arising on AFS amounts of the asset.
non-monetary financial assets, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
com 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Other operating income Vehicle replacement referral income Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill Vehicle replacement referral income comprises fees in respect and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated of referral income received when a customer or a non-fault into Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance policyholder claimant of another insurer has been provided sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are with a hire vehicle from a preferred supplier.
translated into Sterling at average exchange rates unless these do not approximate the foreign exchange rates ruling at the Income is recognised immediately when the customer or dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising claimant is provided with the hire vehicle.
on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amount Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to the Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are recognised consolidated income statement on disposal or partial as the right to consideration, and accrue through the provision disposal of a foreign operation.
of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred 1.3 Contract classification as the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed and Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group always determinable.
the insurer has accepted significant insurance risk from another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate The Groups income also comprises vehicle repair services the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event provided to other third-party customers.
Income in respect the insured event adversely affects the policyholder.
of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the service.
The price is determined using market rates for the Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, services and materials used after discounts have been it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, deducted where applicable.
even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished.
Other income Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised 1.4 Revenue recognition when a policy has been placed and incepted.
Income is Premiums earned stated excluding applicable sales taxes.
Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided Legal services revenue represents the amount charged to clients by contracts incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an for professional services provided during the year including unearned premium provision, which represents the proportion recovery of expenses but excluding value added tax.
Revenue of the premiums incepted in prior periods that relate to periods is only recognised once services have been provided and of insurance cover after the balance sheet date.
Unearned certainty exists as to the outcome of the respective cases.
premiums are calculated over the period of exposure under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for 1.5 Insurance claims the estimated incidence of exposure under policies.
Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full cost of Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties, settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage underwriting or past experience, and are included in insurance and subrogation recoveries.
Outstanding claims provisions are premiums.
Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium not discounted for the time value of money except for claims tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003. commission payable to intermediaries or other parties.
A court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of Cash back payments to policyholders under motor telematics personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly policies represent a reduction in earned premiums.
or partly to take the form of PPOs.
These are covered in more detail in note 2.1.
Costs for both direct and indirect claims Investment return handling expenses are also included.
Interest income on financial assets is determined using the effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate Provisions are determined by management based on method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a experience of claims settled and on statistical models financial asset or group of financial assets and of allocating which require certain assumptions to be made regarding the interest income over the expected life of the asset.
the incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific factors such as adverse weather conditions.
When calculating Rental income from investment property is recognised in the total provision required, the historical development of the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, of the contract.
Any gains or losses arising from a change within acceptable probability parameters, the value of in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
outstanding claims gross and net at the balance sheet date.
Instalment income Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are Instalment income comprises the interest income earned factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation.
on policyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums In addition, an allowance is made for reinsurance assets are settled by a series of instalment payments.
Interest is deemed not recoverable.
earned using an effective interest rate method over the term of the policy.
112 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 112 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques 1.7 Deferred acquisition costs that incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance cost adjusted for inflation and frequency methods.
As claims policies are matched with the earning of the premiums to mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods which they relate.
A proportion of acquisition costs incurred based on actual claims experience.
The approach adopted during the year is therefore deferred to the subsequent takes into account the nature, type and significance of the accounting period to match the extent to which premiums business and the type of data available, with large claims written during the year are unearned at the balance generally being assessed separately.
The data used for sheet date.
statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising reconciled to the accounting data.
expenditure, administration costs, commission paid and costs The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of associated with telesales and underwriting staff.
the ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business 1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an handling costs.
Actual claims experience may differ from the acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value historical pattern on which the actuarial best estimate is based of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is assumed.
As a result, the Group sets provisions at a margin initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less above the actuarial best estimate.
This amount is recorded any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on within claims provisions.
the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks is included in the balance sheet category goodwill and arising where the expected value of net claims and expenses other intangible assets.
The gain or loss on the disposal attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in carrying value of any related goodwill.
relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated costs deferred and other prepaid amounts for example, at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The expected value is determined by reference Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the to recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium assets economic lives using methods that best reflect the rates.
The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately pattern of economic benefits and is included in operating by reference to classes of business that are managed together expenses.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: after taking account of relevant investment returns.
Software development costs Up to 10 years 1.6 Reinsurance The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
Direct costs relating to the development of internal-use computer software and associated business The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits economic viability have been established.
These costs include varying by product line.
Outward reinsurance premiums are payroll costs, the costs of materials and services, and directly generally accounted for in the same accounting period as attributable overheads.
Capitalisation of costs ceases when the the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured.
software is capable of operating as intended.
During and after Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
against the projected benefits that the software is expected to Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance generate.
Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Amounts recoverable feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred, from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the as are all training costs and general overheads.
outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with 1.9 Property, plant and equipment the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant Items of property, plant and equipment except investment reinsurance contract.
Recoveries in respect of PPOs are property note 1.11 are stated at cost less accumulated discounted for the time value of money.
Where an item of A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of property, plant and equipment comprises major components reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.
asset may not be collected or where the reinsurers credit rating has been downgraded significantly.
This also includes an assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions to reflect the counterparty risk exposure to long-term reinsurance assets particularly in relation to periodical payments.
Increases in this provision affect the Group by reducing the carrying value of the asset and the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
com 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Investment property is derecognised when it has been either 1.
Accounting policies continued disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a economic benefit is expected from disposal.
Any gains or straight-line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property are of property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement lives.
The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its or disposal.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: 1.12 Financial assets Financial assets are classified as AFS, held-to-maturity HTM, Freehold and 50 years or the period of designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and leasehold buildings the lease if shorter receivables.
The Group only holds AFS financial assets, HTM Vehicles 3 years financial assets and loans and receivables.
Computer equipment Up to 5 years AFS Financial assets that are not classified as HTM or loans and Other equipment, including 2 to 15 years receivables are classified as AFS.
Financial assets can be property adaptation costs designated as AFS on initial recognition.
AFS financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at fair property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference value.
Impairment losses and exchange differences resulting between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying from translating the amortised cost of foreign currency monetary amount of the item.
AFS financial assets are recognised in the income statement, together with interest calculated using the effective interest rate 1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, method.
Other changes in the fair value of AFS financial assets plant and equipment are reported in a separate component of shareholders equity At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss is recognised any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, in the income statement.
plant and equipment are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans asset and the impairment loss, if any.
Goodwill is tested for and receivables are recognised on settlement date: all other impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes regular way purchases are recognised on trade date.
in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
If an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent of those A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an determined for the cash-generating unit CGU to which the exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the basis.
The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held asset or CGU, discounted at a rate that reflects market interest is usually the current bid price.
When current bid prices are rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or CGU that have unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows.
evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not been a significant change in economic circumstances since the time If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset of the transaction.
If conditions have changed since the time is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised of the transaction for example, a change in the risk-free interest immediately in the income statement and the carrying value rate following the most recent price quote for a corporate of the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss.
bond, the fair value reflects the change in conditions by reference to current prices or rates for similar financial A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or instruments, as appropriate.
property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises provided the increased carrying value does not exceed the The valuation methodology described above uses observable carrying amount that would have been determined had no market data.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique.
1.11 Investment property Valuation techniques include using recent arms length market Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold transactions between knowledgeable and willing parties properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital if available, reference to the current fair value of another appreciation or both.
Investment property is not depreciated, instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent flow analysis and option pricing models.
If there is a valuation registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices for technique commonly used by market participants to price similar properties adjusted for the specific characteristics of the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to each property.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market value is recognised in the income statement.
transactions, the Group uses that technique.
114 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 114 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements HTM an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously Non-derivative financial assets not designated as AFS or loans recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
and receivables with fixed or determinable payments and fixed For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision maturity where the intention and ability to hold them to maturity is calculated based upon prior loss experience.
For all exists are classified as HTM.
balances outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt Subsequent to initial recognition, HTM financial assets are provision is made.
Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate the outstanding debt that is overdue is charged to the income method less any impairment losses.
statement and the bad debt provision is released back to the income statement.
Loans and receivables Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable Derivatives and hedging repayments that are not quoted in an active market are Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and classified as loans and receivables, except those that are subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values classified as AFS or HTM.
Loans and receivables are initially are determined from quoted prices in active markets where recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs available.
Where there is no active market for an instrument, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the fair value is derived from prices for the derivatives components effective interest rate method less any impairment losses.
using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance premiums Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a where the policyholders have elected to pay in instalments, or derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement amounts due from third parties where they have collected or unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying are due to collect the money from the policyholder.
The Group enters into a number of hedge relationships for cash flow and fair value hedges.
Receivables also include amounts due in respect of the provision of legal services.
Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging Impairment of financial assets instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group the period of the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly effective in of financial assets classified as AFS, HTM or loans and offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values attributable to receivables is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if management strategy, or if the hedging instrument expires or is there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
recognition of the asset have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
AFS Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified as AFS has been recognised directly in equity and there is In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative instrument is recognised in the income statement.
The gain loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is statement.
The loss is measured as the difference between the recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed amount of the hedged item.
through profit or loss, but those on AFS debt instruments are Derecognition of financial assets reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive related to a subsequent event.
the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group HTM and loans and receivables has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of financial asset or group of financial assets classified as HTM or ownership of the asset.
loans and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures 1.13 Cash and cash equivalents the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, liquid investments that are readily convertible to known discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change initial recognition.
Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts, are measured or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the impairment losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to www.
com 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in 1.14 Financial liabilities the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net The current service cost and any past service costs, together of transaction costs incurred.
Other than derivatives which with the net interest on net pension liability or asset, is charged are recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial or credited to operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using are recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside the effective interest rate method.
the income statement and presented in other comprehensive income under Items that will not be reclassified subsequently A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation to the income statement.
under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
1.19 Taxation 1.15 Subordinated liabilities The tax charge or credit represents the sum of the tax currently Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated guaranteed payable or receivable and deferred tax.
dated notes which are initially measured at the consideration received less related transaction costs.
Subsequently, The current tax charge is based on the taxable profits for subordinated liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax the effective interest rate method.
legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 1.16 Provisions statement because it excludes items of income or expense that The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely items that are never taxable or deductible.
than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet The Group makes provision for all insurance industry levies, date, and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts such as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and charged or credited to components of other comprehensive Motor Insurance Bureau.
income and equity, as appropriate.
When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance the present obligation under the contract as a provision.
sheet liability method on all temporary differences between A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs of the carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting meeting the contractual obligations exceed the expected purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes.
In respect of leasehold properties, a provision is recognised when the Group has a detailed Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable formal plan to vacate the leasehold property, or significantly temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are reduce its level of occupancy, the plan has been recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable communicated to those affected and the future property profits will be available against which deductible temporary costs under the lease exceed future economic benefits.
Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.
and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal be recovered.
plan and has communicated the plan to those affected.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates 1.17 Leases expected to apply when the assets are realised or liabilities Payments made under operating leases are charged to the are settled based on laws and rates that have been enacted or income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive 1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form other comprehensive income.
of pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable.
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as described in settle its current assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method, and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the scheme liabilities.
116 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 116 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1.20 Share-based payments The standard introduces a new expected loss model that is The Group operates a number of share-based compensation a departure from the current incurred loss model.
The model plans under which it awards Ordinary Shares and share requires a 12 month expected loss to be recognised for all options to its employees.
Such awards are generally subject financial instruments when they first originate or are acquired.
to vesting conditions that vary the amount of cash or shares In subsequent periods, if there is a significant increase in to which an employee is entitled.
credit risk of a financial instrument since it was originated or acquired, the full lifetime expected credit loss would then Vesting conditions include service conditions requiring the be recognised.
employee to complete a specified period of service and performance conditions requiring the Group to meet specified The standard has introduced greater flexibility in the type of performance targets.
transactions eligible for hedge accounting and broadened the type of instruments that qualify as hedging instruments.
The The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation hedge effectiveness test has been replaced with the principle techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free of an economic relationship.
interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments has been adopted for use from The cost of employee services received in exchange for an 1 January 2018 by the EU, with an option for insurance award of shares or share options granted is measured by industry participants to either apply the standard from that reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the date or defer adoption until the IASB issues IFRS 4 Phase 2 date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting Insurance Contracts and it is adopted by the EU.
This option conditions and market performance conditions conditions has been provided in order to avoid potential asset and related to the market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
liability mismatches which could arise within the remit of current IFRS until both standards are applied simultaneously.
The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period the period during which all the specified vesting The Group will make a decision as to the classification of conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding increase in financial assets and liabilities once further certainty exists as equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability to the adoption of IFRS 4 Phase 2.
Accordingly, at this point in a cash-settled award.
The cost is adjusted for vesting in time, the Group is not able to fully quantify the impact of conditions other than market performance conditions so as to adopting IFRS 9 on its financial statements.
reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest.
In May 2014 the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from The cancellation of an award through failure to meet nonContracts with Customers to establish a single comprehensive vesting conditions triggers an immediate expense for any model to use in accounting for revenue recognition and unrecognised element of the cost of an award.
measurement insurance contracts are excluded from the scope of IFRS 15.
The standard provides guidance on when and 1.21 Capital instruments how combined contracts should be unbundled and when a The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a transaction price includes a variable consideration element.
financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with The standard will require the Group to consider contracts with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is customers to determine if changes are required to existing classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver accounting practices, but is not expected to have a material cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets impact on the Groups financial statements.
or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the The effective date of this new standard has been revised Group after the deduction of liabilities.
to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, although early adoption is permitted.
The consideration for any Ordinary Share of the Company purchased by the Group for the benefit of the employee trusts In January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases.
There are is deducted from equity.
some changes to the guidance with the definition of a lease, in particular, more detail is provided on determining whether 1.22 Dividends a contract conveys the right to use a particular asset: however, Interim dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised in equity in most areas companies will find that their arrangements under in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on the new guidance will not change.
The standard provides a Ordinary Shares are recognised when they have been single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise approved at the AGM.
assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
1.23 Accounting developments Lessors will continue to classify leases as operating or finance, In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments that with the approach to lessor accounting substantially will replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and unchanged.
The standard will require the Group to consider Measurement in its entirety.
The classification and measurement how some of the lease arrangements are currently treated of financial assets and liabilities will be directly linked to the to determine if changes are required to existing nature of the instruments contractual cash flows and the business accounting practices.
model employed by the holder of the instrument.
IFRS 16 applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, although early adoption is permitted.
com 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial information.
The Groups principal accounting policies are set out on pages 111 to 117.
Company law and IFRSs require the Directors, in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8, Accounting policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, requires management to develop and apply an accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
The judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
2.1 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and related reinsurance recoveries The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding claims from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling.
Outstanding claims provisions net of related reinsurance recoveries at 31 December 2015 amounted to 3,602.6 million 2014: 3,898.6 million with an additional 393.6 million included in liabilities held for sale.
Claims reserves are assessed separately for large and attritional claims, typically using standard actuarial methods of projection.
Key judgements in this assessment include the selection of specific methods as well as assumptions for claims frequency and severity through the review of historical claims and emerging trends.
The corresponding reinsurance recoveries and impairment provision are calculated on an equivalent basis, using significant judgement, as discussed in note 1.6.
The reinsurance bad debt provision is mainly for expected recoveries against future PPO payments.
The methodology to calculate the impairment provision was refined in the year to more closely align to Solvency II and to more accurately reflect potential future exposure to credit risk and the expected timeframe of cash flows associated with recoveries against these claims.
The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by a lump sum paid to the claimant and, in the cases where this includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement normally occurs using a standardised Ogden annuity factor at a discount rate of 2.5%.
This is normally referred to as the Ogden discount rate.
Other estimates are also required for case management expenses, loss of pension, court protection fees, alterations to accommodation and transportation fees.
In August 2012, the Ministry of Justice announced a review of the approach to setting the Ogden discount rate within the existing legal framework.
Following further consultation, in 2015 the Justice Secretary appointed a panel of three financial investment experts who will provide testimony on potential changes to the discount rate on personal injury damages.
We are awaiting the outcome of their review.
The Group holds provisions for a reduction in the Ogden discount rate at 31 December 2015 to 1.5% 2014: 1.5%.
Details of sensitivity analysis to the assumed Ogden discount rate are shown in note 3.3.
The Group settles some large bodily injury claims as PPOs rather than lump sum payments.
The table below analyses the outstanding PPO claims provisions on a discounted and an undiscounted basis at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlement.
Discounted Undiscounted Discounted Undiscounted 2015 2015 2014 2014 m m m m At 31 December Gross claims Approved PPO claims provisions 452.3 1,315.7 422.6 1,245.7 Anticipated PPOs 538.3 1,660.8 651.0 1,963.2 Total 990.6 2,976.5 1,073.6 3,208.9 Reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 231.1 721.5 216.6 688.6 Anticipated PPOs 227.8 818.4 216.5 839.6 Total 458.9 1,539.9 433.1 1,528.2 Net of reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 221.2 594.2 206.0 557.1 Anticipated PPOs 310.5 842.4 434.5 1,123.6 Total 531.7 1,436.6 640.5 1,680.7 118 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 118 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The provisions for PPOs have been categorised as either claims which have already settled as PPOs approved PPO claims provisions or those expected to settle as PPOs in the future anticipated PPOs.
Anticipated PPOs consist of both existing large loss case reserves including allowances for development and claims yet to be reported to the Group.
Reinsurance is applied at claim level and the net cash flows are discounted for the time value of money.
The discount rate is consistent with the long duration of the claims payments and the assumed future indexation of the claims payments.
In the majority of cases, the inflation agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings SOC 6115 inflation published by the Office for National Statistics, for which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4.0% 2014: 4.0%.
The rate of interest used for the calculation of present values is 4.0% 2014: 4.0%, which results in a real discount rate of 0.0% 2014: 0.0%.
Since lump sum payments are calculated using a real discount rate of 2.5% 2014: 2.5% the PPOs reserved cost is greater than that of lump sum settlements.
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.
2.2 Impairment provisions financial assets The Group determines that AFS financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
The determination of which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset requires judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of the financial asset, the financial health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow or whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost.
Impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors.
AFS On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that the direct investments in AFS debt securities are impaired based on the following criteria: price performance of a particular AFS debt security, or group of AFS debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared to the market as a whole: adverse movements in the credit rating for corporate debt: actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal: or offer on buyback of perpetual bonds below par value.
There was no impairment provision on AFS debt securities in the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: 1.3 million release.
Had all the declines in AFS asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2015, the Group would suffer a loss of 48.7 million 2014: 15.8 million loss of which 0.3 million related to the disposal group, being the transfer of the total AFS reserve for unrealised losses to the income statement.
These movements represent mark-to-market movements and where there is no objective evidence of any loss events that could affect future cash flows, no impairments are recorded for these movements.
HTM and loans and receivables On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that the financial instruments classified as HTM or loans and receivables are impaired based on the following criteria: adverse movements in the credit rating of the borrower: actual, or imminent, default on interest or nominal: or offer on buyback or loan below par value.
There was no impairment provision in respect of financial instruments classified as HTM or loans and receivables in the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: nil.
2.3 Fair value Financial assets classified as AFS debt securities and derivative financial instruments are recognised in the financial statements at fair value determined using observable market input.
The fair value of AFS debt securities at 31 December 2015 amounted to 5,226.6 million 2014: 5,830.3 million with an additional 706.9 million included in assets held for sale.
The fair value of derivative financial assets and liabilities amounted to 19.6 million 2014: 27.3 million and 46.4 million 2014: 29.4 million respectively.
Freehold and long leasehold properties that are classified as investment properties are recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
The fair value at 31 December 2015 amounted to 347.4 million 2014: 307.2 million and was determined using a valuation model that includes inputs that are unobservable.
com 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Estimation of the fair value of assets and liabilities In estimating the fair value of financial assets and investment properties, the methods and assumptions used by the Group incorporate: Financial assets and liabilities For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily available, fair values are estimated using values obtained from quoted market prices of comparable securities.
Investment property Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent valuers who hold recognised and relevant professional qualifications.
The valuation model is driven predominantly by unobservable inputs, as although in part the valuations are compared with recent market transactions for similar properties, they are adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property.
For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: Level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market.
In an active market quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
Level 2 financial assets and liabilities are measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by prices from observable current market transactions.
These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where prices have not been determined in an active market, or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes, investments in private equity funds with fair values obtained via fund managers or assets that are valued using the Groups own models whereby the majority of assumptions are market-observable.
Level 3 fair value measurements used for investment properties are those derived from a valuation technique that includes inputs for the asset that are unobservable.
2.4 Deferred acquisition costs The Group defers a proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year to subsequent accounting periods.
Management uses estimation techniques to determine the level of costs to be deferred, by category of business.
Judgement is used to determine the types of cost that can be deferred and these are referred to in note 1.7.
Total deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 2015 amounted to 203.8 million 2014: 208.4 million with an additional 111.1 million included in assets held for sale.
During 2015, the Group reviewed these costs included in the calculation of deferred acquisition costs and considers them to be appropriate, and has determined that they are recoverable.
2.5 Goodwill The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses as discussed in note 1.8.
The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2015 was 211.0 million 2014: 211.0 million.
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of its net assets.
The determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management judgement: for example, those financial assets and liabilities for which there are no quoted prices and those non-financial assets where valuations reflect estimates of market conditions, such as property.
Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill arising and to the postacquisition performance.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups CGUs or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill impairment testing involves the comparison of the carrying value of a CGU or group of CGUs with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGUs fair value and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU or group of CGUs.
Fair value is the amount obtainable from the sale of the CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties.
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgemental areas: the preparation of the five-year strategic plan and the extrapolation of cash flow forecasts beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the business: estimation of the fair value of CGUs: and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
Details of a sensitivity analysis on the recoverable amount in excess of carrying value are shown in note 18.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment The Group does not revalue property, plant and equipment.
However, it takes appropriate steps to consider whether the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment exceeds the balance sheet carrying value of such items.
The Group is satisfied that the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment is not less than its carrying value.
120 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 120 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3.
Risk management 3.1 Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework The ERMF sets out, at a high level, our approach and processes for managing risks.
Further information can be found in the Risk management section of the Strategic report on page 26.
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group carries out detailed modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed.
This modelling includes the Groups own assessment of its SCR.
The assessment has been submitted to the PRA as part of the Groups application for IMAP.
The SCR quantifies the insurance, market, credit, operational and liquidity risk that the regulated entities are undertaking.
The Board is closely involved in the SCR process and reviews, challenges and approves its assumptions and results.
3.3 Principal risks from insurance activities and use of financial instruments The Risk management section of the Strategic report sets out all the risks assessed by the Group as principal risks.
Detailed below is the Groups risk exposure arising from its insurance activities and use of financial instruments specifically in respect of insurance risk, market risk and credit risk.
1 Insurance risk The Group is exposed to insurance risk as a primary consequence of its business.
Key insurance risks focus on the risk of loss due to fluctuations in the timings, amount, frequency and severity of an insured event relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
The insurance risks that the Group faces include those referred to below: Reserve risk Reserve risk relates to both premiums and claims.
This is the risk that reserves are understated arising from: the random nature of claims: data issues: and operational failures.
Understatement of reserves may result in not being able to pay claims when they fall due.
Alternatively, overstatement of reserves can lead to a surplus of funds being retained resulting in opportunity cost.
Reserve risk is controlled through a range of processes: regular reviews of the claims, premiums and an assessment of the requirement for a liability adequacy provision for the main classes of business by the internal actuarial team: the use of external actuaries to review periodically the actuarial best estimate reserves produced internally, either through peer review or through provision of independent reserve estimates: accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including bootstrapping and scenario analysis: oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board: regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews: and regular assessment of the volatility in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves.
The Groups reserves are particularly susceptible to potential retrospective changes in legislation and new court decisions, for example, a change in the Ogden discount rate.
This is the discount rate set by the relevant government bodies and used by courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases.
The rate is currently 2.5% per annum but is under review by the Ministry of Justice.
The Group has calculated its estimated reserves based on an assumed Ogden discount rate of 1.5%, in recognition of the uncertainty regarding the future rate.
Uncertainty in claims reserves estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed payments are made typically over the lifetime of the injured party.
Claims reserves for PPOs are held on a discounted basis and are sensitive to a change in the assumed discount rate.
com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease Increase decrease in total equity at in income statement 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m 1 PPOs Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points 76.0 87.3 76.0 87.3 Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points 109.4 121.8 109.4 121.8 2 Ogden Impact of an increase in the Ogden discount rate by 100 basis points 131.9 159.6 131.9 159.6 Impact of a decrease in the Ogden discount rate by 100 basis points 190.0 224.0 190.0 224.0 Notes: 1.
The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level of 4.0%.
An increase in the discount rate reflects a decrease in the time value of money and therefore the present value of future liabilities, which increases total equity and would be reflected in the income statement.
The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the Ogden discount rate illustrate a movement in the value from the current prescribed level of 2.5%.
These sensitivities reflect one-off impacts at 31 December excluding the impact of taxation and should not be interpreted as a prediction.
In addition, there is the risk that claims are reserved or paid inappropriately, including the timing of such activity.
However, there are claims management controls in place to mitigate this risk, as outlined below: Claims are managed utilising a range of IT system-driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner.
Each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside their authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims.
In addition, there are various outsourced claims handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the controls and procedures.
Loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion.
This involves liaison with the policyholder, third parties, suppliers and the claims function.
Specialist bodily injury claims teams are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling dependent on the level and type of claim.
Claims exceeding a certain threshold are referred to the technical and large loss teams who also deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria.
A process is in place to deal with major weather and other catastrophic events, known as the Surge Demand Plan.
A surge is the collective name given to an incident which significantly increases the volume of claims reported to the Groups claims functions.
The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and management information monitoring of the plan.
122 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 122 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Underwriting risk This is the risk that future claims experience on policies written is materially different from the results expected, resulting in losses.
The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including motor, residential property, roadside assistance, creditor, travel and pet business.
The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades within the SME market.
Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis which means that the Groups liability usually extends for a 12 month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal terms by amending the premium or other policy terms and conditions such as the excess as appropriate.
Underwriting risk includes catastrophe risk, the risk of loss, or of adverse change, in the value of the insurance liabilities resulting from significant uncertainty of pricing and provisioning assumptions related to extreme or exceptional circumstances.
When underwriting policies, the Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: Geographic concentration risk the Group purchases a catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against a modelled 1 in 200-year loss.
The retained deductible is 150 million at 31 December 2015 2014: 150 million : Product concentration risk the Groups business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market.
However, the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels to its customers: and Sector concentration risk the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect of commercial customers.
It is important to note that none of these risk categories is independent of the others and that giving due consideration to the relationship between these risks is an important aspect of the effective management of insurance risk.
Distribution risk This is the risk of material change in the volume of policies, written through a distribution channel, which may result in losses or reduced profitability.
Pricing risk This is the risk of economic loss arising from policies being incorrectly priced or accepted to achieve desired volume and profitability.
Reinsurance risk This is the risk of inappropriate selection and or placement of a reinsurance arrangement, with either individual or multiple reinsurers which renders the transfer of insurance risk to the reinsurer s inappropriate and or ineffective.
Other risks include: Reinsurance concentration risk reinsurance is purchased from a number of providers to ensure that a diverse range of counterparties is contracted with, within the desired credit rating range: Reinsurance capacity being reduced and or withdrawn: Underwriting risk appetite and reinsurance contract terms not being aligned: Reinsurance contract terms being inappropriate or ineffective resulting in classes or types of business not being appropriately reinsured: Non-adherence to the reinsurance policy terms and conditions, in terms of both policy management and claims not being handled within the reinsurance contract terms and conditions or paid on an ex-gratia basis resulting in reinsurance recoveries not being made in full: Inappropriate or inaccurate management information and or modelling being used to determine the value for money and purchasing of reinsurance including aggregate modelling : and Changes in the external legal, regulatory, social or economic environment altering the definition and application of reinsurance policy wordings or the effectiveness or value for money of reinsurance.
The Group uses reinsurance to: protect the insurance results against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility to reinsurers: protect the insurance results against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims in order to reduce volatility and to improve stability of earnings: reduce the Groups capital requirements: and or transfer risk that is not within the Groups current risk retention strategy.
com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued Using reinsurance, the Group cedes insurance risk to reinsurers but, in return, assumes back counterparty risk against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
The financial security of the Groups panel of reinsurers is therefore important and both the quality and amount of the assumed counterparty risk are subject to an approval process whereby reinsurance is only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least Aat the time cover is purchased.
The Groups leading counterparty exposures represent the accumulated counterparty risk for all Group underwriting entities and are reviewed on a monthly basis.
The Group aims to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and or non-payment risks associated with its reinsurance exposures.
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of bodily injury and PPO claims, and insurance reserves therefore include provisions beyond the levels created for shorter-term reinsurance bad debt.
2 Market risk Market risk is the risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the level and in the volatility of market prices of assets, liabilities and financial instruments.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: Spread risk: Interest rate risk: Property risk: and Foreign currency risk.
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Board for managing the market risk exposure.
These set out the principles that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept having considered strategy, risk appetite and capital resources.
The Group monitors its market risk exposure on a monthly basis and has established an aggregate exposure limit consistent with its risk objective to maintain capital adequacy.
Interdependencies across risk types have also been considered within the aggregate exposure limit.
The allocation of the Groups investments across asset classes has been approved at the Investment Committee.
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is reviewed by the Investment Committee, which makes recommendations to the Board for its investment strategy approval.
The Investment Committee determines policy and controls, covering such areas as risk, liquidity and performance.
The Investment Committee meets at least three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines and to consider investment recommendations submitted to it.
Oversight of the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment Committee is via the 1st and 2nd Lines of Defence.
The investment management objectives are to: Maintain the safety of the portfolios principal both in economic terms and from a capital, accounting and reporting perspective: Maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations, including in the event of a catastrophe: and Maximise the portfolios total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the investment guidelines and capital allocation.
The Group has a property portfolio and an infrastructure debt portfolio in order to improve matching to the longer duration PPOs.
The Group uses its internal economic capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits, and monitors its market risk exposure based on a 99.5% value-at-risk measure.
The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing for the economic impact of specific severe market conditions.
The results of this analysis are used to enhance the understanding of market risk.
The asset liability matching and investment management minimum standard explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative or gearing purposes.
However, the Group is able to and does use derivatives for hedging its currency risk and interest rate risk exposures.
Spread risk This is the risk of loss from the sensitivity of the value of assets and investments to changes in the level or in the volatility of credit spreads over the risk-free interest rate term structure.
The level of spread is the difference between the risk-free rate and actual rate paid on the asset, with larger spreads being associated with higher risk assets.
The Group is exposed to spread risk through its investments in bonds and securitised credit.
Interest rate risk This is the risk of loss from all assets and liabilities for which the net asset value is sensitive to changes in the term structure of interest rates or interest rate volatility.
The Groups interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments and assets and liabilities exposed to fixed interest rates.
124 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 124 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The fixed interest rate up to 27 April 2022 on the Groups 30-year maturity 500 million of subordinated guaranteed dated notes has been exchanged for a floating rate of interest note 30.
The Group also invests in floating rate debt securities, whose investment income is influenced by the movement of the short-term interest rate.
A movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return on these investments.
The market value of the Groups financial investments with fixed coupons is affected by the movement of interest rates.
For the majority of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds, excluding 336.9 million of short duration high yield bonds 2014: 297.4 million, the Group hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar interest rate risk using swaps.
These derivatives reduce the duration of the portfolio to close to zero.
Property risk This risk results from adverse price fluctuations on commercial property investments.
At 31 December 2015, the value of these property investments was 347.4 million 2014: 307.2 million.
The property investments are located in the UK.
Foreign currency risk The exposure to currency risk is generated by the Groups investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and US Dollar securitised credit.
The Group maintains exposure to US Dollar securities through 1,876.3 million 2014: 1,892.3 million of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and US Dollar securitised credit.
The foreign currency exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts, maintaining a minimal unhedged currency exposure on these portfolios, as well as a low basis currency risk on the hedging.
The Group was also exposed to currency risk through its investments in subsidiaries in Italy and Germany that is, investments in equity until the disposal of the International business on 29 May 2015.
Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease Increase decrease in total equity at in income statement 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Spread Impact of a 100 basis points increase in spreads on financial 1,2, 4,5 investments and derivatives 160.1 163.5 Interest rate Impact of a 100 basis points increase in interest rates on financial 1,3, 4,5 investments and derivatives 22.1 19.1 120.0 122.8 5 Investment property Impact of a 15% decrease in property markets 52.1 46.1 52.1 46.1 Notes: 1.
The income statement impact on financial investments is limited to floating rate instruments and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate instruments, in particular AFS debt securities, where the coupon return is not impacted by a change in prevailing market rates, as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through the income statement with fair value movements being recognised through total equity.
The increase or decrease in total equity reflects a fair value movement in infrastructure debt and HTM debt securities that would not be recorded in the financial statements under IFRSs as they are classified as loans and receivables and HTM respectively, which are carried at amortised cost.
This result has been included in the table above to provide a comprehensive analysis of the fair value impact of this sensitivity.
The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on financial investments and derivatives, which projects a movement in a full years interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to these assets or liabilities on those positions held at 31 December.
The subordinated liabilities and associated interest rate swap are excluded from the sensitivity analysis.
The sensitivities calculated above exclude the impact of assets in the disposal group at 31 December 2014.
The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Groups insurance liabilities or retirement benefit obligations.
com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The Group has a number of open interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions.
Collateral management arrangements are in place for significant counterparty exposures.
At 31 December 2015, the Group has pledged 12.3 million in cash 2014: 17.3 million to cover out of the money derivative positions.
At 31 December 2015, counterparties have pledged 19.7 million in UK Gilts 2014: 21.5 million in UK Gilts to the Group to cover in the money derivative positions.
The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard.
When securities are pledged they are required to be readily convertible to cash, and as such no policy has been established for the disposal of assets not readily convertible into cash.
3 Credit risk This is the risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the credit standing of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors to which the Group is exposed.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following credit risk factors: Counterparty default risk: and Concentration risk.
Counterparty default risk This is the risk of loss from unexpected default, deterioration in the credit standing of the counterparties and debtors of the Group.
It is primarily managed by the 1st Line of Defence and monitored by the Credit Risk Forum.
The main responsibility of this forum is to ensure that all material aspects of counterparty risk within the Group are identified, monitored and measured.
The main sources of counterparty risk for the Group are: Investments this arises from the investment of funds in a range of investment vehicles permitted by the investment policy: and Reinsurance recoveries counterparty exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and, by their very nature, to significantly increase the length of time to reach final payment.
This has increased reinsurance counterparty risk in terms of both amount and longevity.
The following tables analyse the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear counterparty risk between those assets that have not been impaired by age in relation to due date, and those that have been impaired.
Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value in past due nor Past due more than have been the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet At 31 December 2015 m m m m m Reinsurance assets 1,011.4 1,011.4 Insurance and other receivables 917.3 32.4 6.1 955.8 Derivative assets 19.6 19.6 Debt securities 5,240.1 5,240.1 Deposits with credit institutions with maturities three months 44.9 44.9 Infrastructure debt 329.6 329.6 Cash and cash equivalents 963.7 963.7 Total 8,526.6 32.4 6.1 8,565.1 Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value in past due nor Past due more than have been the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet At 31 December 2014 m m m m m Reinsurance assets 862.5 862.5 Insurance and other receivables 907.3 52.0 0.6 959.9 Derivative assets 27.3 27.3 Debt securities 5,830.3 5,830.3 Deposits with credit institutions with maturities three months 54.7 54.7 Infrastructure debt 76.2 76.2 Cash and cash equivalents 880.4 880.4 Total 8,638.7 52.0 0.6 8,691.3 126 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 126 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Within the analysis of debt securities above are bank debt securities at 31 December 2015 of 1,305.1 million 2014: 1,328.3 million, that can be further analysed as: secured 86.4 million 2014: 104.1 million : unsecured 1,059.6 million 2014: 1,058.3 million : and subordinated 159.1 million 2014: 165.9 million.
Concentration risk This is the risk of exposure to increased losses associated with inadequately diversified portfolios of assets and or obligations, in particular: Large exposures to individual credits either bond issuers or deposit-taking institutions : Large exposures to different credits where movements in values and ratings are closely correlated.
Concentration risk on investments arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings or similar activities.
The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over-exposure to particular sectors engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities and infrastructure debt by geographical area.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities and infrastructure debt by geographical area.
2015 2014 m % m % At 31 December Social, of which: Education 132.3 40% 34.0 44% Healthcare 98.1 30% Other 58.8 18% 22.6 30% Transport 40.4 12% 19.6 26% Total 329.6 100% 76.2 100% The tables below analyse the credit quality of debt securities that are neither past due nor impaired.
Securitised credit consists of prime mortgage backed securities, collateralised loan obligations, securitised student loans and commercial mortgage backed securities.
com 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The tables below analyse the credit quality of financial and insurance assets that are neither past due nor impaired excluding debt securities analysed above.
The tables include reinsurance exposure, after provision.
1 details the Groups approach to reinsurance counterparty risk management.
Includes receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries which generally do not have a credit rating.
4 Operational risk This is the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events.
Sources of operational risk for the Group include: Change risk This is the risk of failing to manage the Groups business change programme resulting in conflicting priorities and failure to deliver strategic outcomes to time, cost or quality.
IT continuity risk This is the risk of loss of technology services due to data, systems or data centre failure and or failure of a third party to restore services.
Outsourcing risk This is the risk of failing to implement a robust framework for the sourcing, appointment and ongoing contract management of external suppliers, outsourced service providers and intragroup relationships.
The Group has in place agreed policies and standards to manage key controls relating to operational risk.
5 Liquidity risk This is the risk of being unable to realise investments in order to settle financial obligations when they fall due.
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters of the Groups liquidity risk appetite and is detailed within the liquidity risk minimum standard.
Compliance is monitored in respect of both the minimum standard and the regulatory requirements of local regulators.
In the event that one or more liquidity stresses or scenarios crystallises, or should any other event that may impact liquidity occur, the Group ensures a rapid and controlled response to the event.
In such an event, a liquidity crisis management team will be formed to assess the nature and extent of the threat and to develop an appropriate response.
130 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 130 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The tables below analyse the maturity of the Groups derivative assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2015 m m m m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 27.1 0.4 0.4 Interest rate swaps 678.4 1.1 0.2 17.6 18.9 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 5.0 0.3 0.3 Total 710.5 1.8 0.2 17.6 19.6 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,876.3 42.2 42.2 Interest rate swaps 1,241.9 3.0 0.5 1.6 4.1 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 0.7 0.1 0.1 Total 3,118.9 45.3 0.5 1.6 46.4 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2014 Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 54.4 0.3 0.3 Interest rate swaps 696.6 0.9 1.2 22.5 24.6 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 435.6 1.9 0.5 2.4 Total 1,186.6 3.1 1.7 22.5 27.3 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2014 m m m m m Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,892.3 22.9 22.9 Interest rate swaps 424.9 1.3 0.5 4.6 6.4 1 Interest rate futures 540.5 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 5.0 0.1 0.1 Total 2,862.7 24.3 0.5 4.6 29.4 Note: 1.
Interest rate futures are settled daily with variation margin and therefore have a fair value of nil.
The notional value is included in the above table to reflect the fact that the Group has exposure to open positions.
com 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The tables below analyse financial investments, cash and cash equivalents, insurance and financial liabilities by remaining duration, in proportion to the cash flows expected to arise during that period, for each category.
Insurance liabilities exclude unearned premium reserves as there are no liquidity risks inherent in them.
132 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 132 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3.4 Capital adequacy Capital is managed in accordance with the Groups capital management minimum standard, the objectives of which are to manage capital efficiently and maintain an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency.
The Group determines the appropriate level of capital on the basis of a number of criteria, including economic, regulatory and rating agency capital requirements.
The Group seeks to hold capital resources consistent with an A range credit rating.
Prior to 1 January 2016, the regulated insurance entities of the Group carried out an assessment of the adequacy of their overall financial resources in accordance with the PRAs ICA methodology.
The insurance capital requirement is calculated on an internal model which is calibrated to a 99.5% confidence interval and considers business written to date and one year of future business.
Additionally, the model allows for the uncertainty around the run-off of this business.
From 1 January 2016, the Groups regulatory capital position will be assessed against the Solvency II framework.
Initially, the Group including its regulated insurance entities will assess its SCR using the standard formula.
Its principal underwriter UKI has applied for its internal economic capital model to be approved as its internal model and approval is expected during 2016.
From that point, UKI will calculate its capital requirement using the internal model which, will form part of a Group-wide partial internal model.
In 2015, the Group monitored its financial resources with reference to the requirements of the Insurance Group Directive and on this basis at 31 December 2015 had a surplus of approximately 1.7 billion 2014: 1.9 billion.
The Groups capital requirements and solvency position are produced and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Segmental analysis The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis.
The segments reflect the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer for each of the operating segments: Motor This segment consists of personal motor insurance together with the associated legal protection cover.
The Group sells motor insurance through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands.
Home This segment consists of home insurance together with associated legal protection cover.
The Group sells home insurance through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands.
Rescue and other personal lines This segment consists of rescue products sold through the Groups own brand, Green Flag, and other personal lines insurance, including travel, pet and creditor sold through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands.
Commercial This segment consists of commercial insurance for small and medium-size entities sold through NIG, Direct Line for Business, Churchill for Business and through partnership brands.
Certain income and charges are not allocated to the specific operating segments above as they are considered by management to be outside underlying business activities by virtue of their one-off incidence, size or nature.
Such income and charges are categorised as either run-off or restructuring and other one-off costs, described below.
Run-off The segment consists of two principal lines, policies previously written through the personal lines broker channel and Tesco business.
These residual businesses are now in run-off.
Restructuring and other one-off costs Restructuring costs are costs incurred in respect of the business activities which have a material effect on the nature and focus of the Groups operations.
One-off costs are costs that are non-recurring in nature.
No inter-segment transactions occurred in the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: nil.
If any transaction were to occur, transfer prices between operating segments would be set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be eliminated on consolidation.
For each operating segment, there is no individual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Groups total revenue.
com 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segmental analysis continued The table below analyses the Groups revenue and results for continuing operations by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Rescue and other Motor Home personal lines Commercial Run-off Total m m m m m m Goodwill 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 211.0 Other segment assets 6,303.4 872.2 177.9 1,573.9 818.2 9,745.6 Segment liabilities 4,701.9 650.6 132.7 1,174.0 667.4 7,326.6 Segment net assets 1,727.9 267.4 73.9 410.0 150.8 2,630.0 134 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 134 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The table below analyses the Groups revenue and results for continuing operations by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Groups revenue and results for the year ended 31 December 2014 relating to the Tracker business, which was disposed of on 5 February 2014, were recorded in the Motor segment other operating income: 1.4 million and operating loss: 0.4 million.
The table below analyses the Groups assets and liabilities by reportable segment at 31 December 2014.
Comprise the assets and liabilities of International.
All continuing operations are in the UK.
The reportable segment net assets do not represent the Groups view of the capital requirements for its operating segments.
The segmental analysis of assets and liabilities is prepared using a combination of asset and liability balances directly attributable to each operating segment and an apportionment of assets and liabilities managed at a Group wide level.
com 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Discontinued operations and disposal group Following a strategic review of the International segment during 2014, the Board concluded that, although the operations in Italy represented by Direct Line Insurance S. p. A and Germany represented by Direct Line Versicherung AG occupied strong positions, a disposal would be likely to generate the most value to shareholders.
On 25 September 2014, the Group entered into a binding agreement with Mapfre International S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mapfre, S. A. for the sale of International.
Accordingly, the Group has treated this segment as discontinued operations and a disposal group.
The Group completed the disposal of its Italian and German subsidiaries on 29 May 2015, generating a gain on disposal of 167.1 million.
A Discontinued operations The following table analyses performance relating to the discontinued operations for the period from 1 January to disposal on 29 May 2015 and the year ended 31 December 2014.
2015 2014 m m Gross written premium 261.1 567.6 Gross earned premium 207.2 555.8 Reinsurance premium ceded 78.8 226.0 Net earned premium 128.4 329.8 1 Investment return 37.1 22.1 Instalment income 1.4 4.8 Other operating income 0.1 1.0 Total income 167.0 357.7 Insurance claims 156.2 404.2 Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 60.9 159.5 Net insurance claims 95.3 244.7 Commission expenses 28.0 63.0 Operating expenses 10.2 29.0 Total expenses 38.2 92.0 Operating profit from discontinued operations 33.5 21.0 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 167.1 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 200.6 21.0 Tax charge 19.4 7.7 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 181.2 13.3 Underwriting loss 5.1 6.9 Loss ratio 74.2% 74.2% Commission ratio 21.8% 19.1% Expense ratio 8.0% 8.8% COR 104.0% 102.1% Note: 1.
Realised net gains on AFS investments in 2015 included 29.9 million of gains reclassified through the income statement, on disposal of International 2014: nil.
The following table analyses the other comprehensive loss relating to discontinued operations, included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period from 1 January to disposal on 29 May 2015 and year ended 31 December 2014.
2015 2014 m m Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement: Exchange differences on the translation of foreign operations 14.4 15.5 Cash flow hedge 1.2 Fair value gain on AFS investments 0.6 26.1 Less: realised net gains on AFS investments included in income statement 31.8 6.6 Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 10.1 6.9 Other comprehensive loss for the year net of tax 7.9 2.9 136 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 136 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The following table analyses the cash flows relating to the discontinued operations included in the consolidated cash flow statement for the period 1 January to disposal on 29 May 2015 and the year ended 31 December 2014.
2015 2014 m m Net cash generated from operating activities 19.1 12.6 Net cash used by investing activities 1.5 8.4 1 Net cash generated from the disposal of discontinued operations 327.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 9.8 6.1 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 334.9 1.9 Note: 1.
The net cash generated from the disposal of discontinued operations comprises the net cash consideration of 422.5 million less the cash held by the German and Italian subsidiaries at the point of sale of 95.4 million.
B Disposal group The following table analyses the gain on disposal of discontinued operations during the year including the assets and liabilities held for sale in the disposal group immediately prior to the disposal on 29 May 2015.
29 May 31 December 2015 2014 m m Assets Intangible assets 5.4 5.6 Property, plant and equipment 5.2 5.9 Reinsurance assets 171.0 183.0 Deferred tax assets 41.9 9.2 Current tax assets 1.4 Deferred acquisition costs 105.5 111.1 Insurance and other receivables 152.3 91.1 Prepayments and accrued income 3.1 3.6 Financial investments 665.5 706.9 Cash and cash equivalents 95.4 87.6 Total assets 1,245.3 1,205.4 Liabilities Insurance liabilities 504.5 553.4 Unearned premium reserve 355.0 326.2 Trade and other payables including insurance payables 125.3 82.0 Deferred tax liabilities 32.0 0.8 Current tax liabilities 4.0 2.0 Total liabilities 1,020.8 964.4 Net assets 224.5 1 Cash consideration received 438.1 Transaction costs 15.6 Net cash consideration 422.5 Net assets disposed 224.5 Currency translation reserve reclassified to the income statement 30.9 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 167.1 Note: 1.
The Group entered into a foreign currency hedge converting Euro into Sterling in September 2014 for the disposal proceeds.
The foreign currency hedge gain of 34.0 million and other sale-related consideration are included in cash consideration received.
com 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Discontinued operations and disposal group continued C Assets and liabilities held for sale The following table analyses the assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2015.
2015 2014 m m Assets held for sale: Disposal group note 5B 1,205.4 1 Freehold property 5.1 3.0 Total 5.1 1,208.4 Liabilities held for sale: Disposal group note 5B 964.4 Total 964.4 Note: 1.
The freehold property held at 31 December 2015 comprises the Pudsey sites which were transferred from property, plant and equipment to assets held for sale in 2015 with a carrying value of 22.1 million and impaired by 17.0 million to reflect the estimated realisable value.
The freehold property held at 31 December 2014 with a value of 3.0 million comprised the formerly occupied Coombe Cross site in Croydon which was disposed of during 2015, realising proceeds of 7.1 million and generating an impairment reversal of 4.1 million.
Net earned premium 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Gross earned premium: Gross written premium 3,152.5 3,099.0 Movement in unearned premium reserve 42.4 45.2 3,110.1 3,144.2 Reinsurance premium: Premium payable 191.7 182.5 Movement in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 2.5 25.0 189.2 157.5 Total 2,920.9 2,986.7 7.
Investment return 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Investment income: Interest income from debt securities 140.1 154.0 Cash and cash equivalent interest income 6.7 5.2 Rental income from investment property 17.9 16.2 Interest income from infrastructure debt 4.4 0.1 169.1 175.5 Net realised gains losses : AFS debt securities 12.4 16.2 Derivatives 56.5 86.2 Investment property note 20 2.3 44.1 67.7 Net unrealised gains: Impairments of AFS debt securities 1.3 Derivatives 48.9 79.6 Investment property note 20 24.2 26.4 73.1 107.3 Total 198.1 215.1 138 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 138 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The table below analyses the realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivative instruments included in investment return.
Realised Unrealised Realised Unrealised 2015 2015 2014 2014 Continuing operations m m m m Derivative losses gains Foreign exchange forward contracts 82.4 19.1 59.3 46.4 Associated foreign exchange risk 44.9 61.9 7.4 115.9 Net losses gains on foreign exchange forward contracts 37.5 42.8 66.7 69.5 Interest rate derivatives 28.7 1.2 20.4 22.1 Associated interest rate risk 9.7 4.9 0.9 32.2 Net losses gains on interest rate derivatives 19.0 6.1 19.5 10.1 Total 56.5 48.9 86.2 79.6 8.
Other operating income 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Vehicle replacement referral income 12.5 15.8 Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 15.5 18.0 Fee income from insurance intermediary services 2.4 2.1 Other income 20.3 11.0 Total 50.7 46.9 9.
Net insurance claims Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Continuing operations m m m m m m Current accident year claims paid 1,037.0 1,037.0 1,086.4 1,086.4 Prior accident year claims paid 941.9 15.9 926.0 1,165.8 21.8 1,144.0 Decrease in insurance liabilities 149.6 146.5 296.1 473.6 29.4 503.0 Total 1,829.3 162.4 1,666.9 1,778.6 51.2 1,727.4 Claims handling expenses for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 200.4 million 2014: 226.3 million have been included in the claims figures above.
Claims handling expenses can be further analysed for the year ended 31 December 2015 between ongoing operations of 195.6 million 2014: 222.3 million and run-off of 4.8 million 2014: 4.0 million.
Commission expenses 2015 2014 m m Continuing operations Commission expenses 253.2 263.3 Expenses incurred under profit participations 66.1 90.7 Total 319.3 354.0 11.
Operating expenses 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Staff costs 273.3 263.6 Other operating expenses 249.2 299.5 Marketing 117.9 123.9 Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 67.4 66.4 Depreciation 30.7 22.6 Total 738.5 776.0 Staff costs attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to the cost of insurance claims.
com 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Operating expenses continued The table below analyses restructuring and other one-off costs included in operating expenses.
2015 2014 m m Other operating expenses 30.0 54.1 Staff costs 18.7 15.5 Total 48.7 69.6 The table below analyses the number of people employed by the Groups operations.
At 31 December Average for the year Continuing operations 2015 2014 2015 2014 Operations 9,531 9,618 9,564 9,959 Support 1,190 1,271 1,257 1,278 Total 10,721 10,889 10,821 11,237 The Groups discontinued operations employed no employees at 31 December 2015 2014: 1,267 and an average monthly number of 1,279 people for the period until disposal on 29 May 2015 2014: 1,275.
The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Groups operations comprised: 2015 2014 m m Continuing operations Wages and salaries 335.4 344.0 Social security costs 37.8 37.7 Pension costs 23.4 23.9 Share-based payments 12.1 6.6 Total 408.7 412.2 The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Groups discontinued operations note 5A was 12.6 million in 2015 2014: 32.9 million.
The table below analyses auditors remuneration in respect of the Groups operations.
2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Fees payable for the audit of: The Companys annual accounts 0.3 0.4 The Companys subsidiaries 1.6 1.5 Total audit fees 1.9 1.9 Fees payable for non-audit services: Audit-related assurance services 0.3 0.1 Taxation advisory services 0.2 Other services 0.6 0.1 Total non-audit services 0.9 0.4 Total 2.8 2.3 The audit fees in respect of the Groups discontinued operations note 5A were nil in 2015 2014: 0.4 million.
Aggregate Directors emoluments The table below analyses the total amount of Directors remuneration, all of which is in relation to continuing operations, in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations.
2015 2014 m m Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 3.5 3.4 Gains on exercise of share options 4.9 1.2 Defined contribution pension scheme contributions 0.1 0.1 Total 8.5 4.7 Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
140 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 140 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements At 31 December 2015, one Director 2014: one had retirement benefits accruing under the defined contribution pension scheme in respect of qualifying service.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, two Directors exercised share options 2014: two.
Finance costs 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m 1 Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 37.6 37.2 Note: 1.
As described in note 30, on 27 April 2012 the Group issued subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of 500 million at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the notes for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points, which increased to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013.
Tax charge 2015 2014 m m Continuing operations Current taxation: Charge for the year 103.5 87.2 Over under provision in respect of prior year 4.6 3.9 98.9 91.1 Deferred taxation note 14 : Charge for the year 6.4 14.0 Under over provision in respect of prior year 3.0 7.6 9.4 6.4 Current taxation 98.9 91.1 Deferred taxation note 14 9.4 6.4 Tax charge for the year 108.3 97.5 The following table analyses the difference between the actual income tax charge and the expected income tax charge 1 computed by applying the standard rate of corporation tax of 20.25% 2014: 21.5%.
2015 2014 m m Continuing operations Profit before tax 507.5 456.8 Expected tax charge 102.8 98.2 Effects of: Realised gains on disposal of subsidiaries 0.5 Disallowable expenses 7.8 3.4 Effect of change in corporation taxation rate 0.7 0.1 Over provision in respect of prior year 1.6 3.7 Tax charge for the year 108.3 97.5 Effective income tax rate 21.3% 21.3% Note: 1.
In the Finance Act 2013 the UK Government enacted a reduction in the corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and a further reduction to 20% effective from 1 April 2015.
The Finance No 2 Act 2015 enacted further reductions to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and 18% effective from 1 April 2020.
As a consequence, the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets or liabilities are settled.
The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above.
com 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Current and deferred tax Current tax 2015 2014. m m Per balance sheet: Current tax assets 0.1 0.1 Current tax liabilities 10.3 35.7.
Deferred tax 2015 2014 m m Per balance sheet: Deferred tax liabilities 29.9 20.6 The table below analyses the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon.
Provisions Depreciation and other Retirement in excess of NonInvestment temporary benefit capital distributable Share-based properties differences obligations allowances reserve payments Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 17.3 0.4 0.4 18.5 1.5 1.9 Credit charge to the income statement on continuing operations 2.6 0.5 0.5 6.5 3.3 0.8 6.4 Credit to the income statement on discontinued operations 2.1 2.1 Charge to other comprehensive income 7.4 0.6 8.0 Credit direct to equity 1.0 1.0 Other movements 0.8 0.1 0.9 Transfer to liabilities assets held for sale 8.4 8.4 At 31 December 2014 5.4 0.7 0.8 25.0 4.8 3.7 20.6 Charge credit to the income statement on continuing operations 2.1 0.1 3.9 3.6 0.3 9.4 Charge to other comprehensive income 1.6 1.6 Credit direct to equity 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2015 3.3 2.4 0.8 28.9 8.4 5.7 29.9 In addition, the Group has an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2015 of 4.1 million 2014: 1.9 million in relation to capital losses.
142 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 142 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15.
Dividends 2015 2014 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 1 2014 final dividend of 8.8 pence per share paid on 17 April 2015 131.6 2013 final dividend of 8.4 pence per share paid on 20 May 2014 125.7 2015 first interim dividend of 4.6 pence per share paid on 11 September 2015 63.0 2014 first interim dividend of 4.4 pence per share paid on 12 September 2014 65.8 2015 first special interim dividend of 27.5 pence per share paid on 24 July 2015 411.5 2014 first special interim dividend of 10.0 pence per share paid on 12 September 2014 149.7 2014 second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share paid on 17 April 2015 59.9 2013 second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share paid on 20 May 2014 59.9 666.0 401.1 Proposed dividends: 2015 final dividend of 9.2 pence per share 126.5 1 2014 final dividend of 8.8 pence per share 132.0 2015 second special interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share 121.0 2014 second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share 60.0 Note: 1.
The Board paid an interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend.
The proposed final dividend for 2015 has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The trustees of the employee share trusts waived their entitlement to dividends on shares held to meet obligations arising from LTIP, DAIP and Restricted Shares Plan awards, which reduced the total dividend paid for the year ended 31 December 2015 by 1.7 million 2014: 0.9 million.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the period.
On 30 June 2015, the Group completed an 11 for 12 share consolidation which had the effect of reducing the number of 10 shares in issue from 1,500 million Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each to 1,375 million Ordinary Shares of 10 11 pence each.
The weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share reflects this share consolidation.
Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
2015 2014 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from: Continuing operations 399.2 359.3 Discontinued operations 181.2 13.3 Continuing and discontinued operations 580.4 372.6 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,431.2 1,495.0 Basic earnings per share pence : Continuing operations 27.9 24.0 Discontinued operations 12.7 0.9 Continuing and discontinued operations 40.6 24.9 www.
com 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Earnings per share continued Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the period adjusted for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has share options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
2015 2014 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from: Continuing operations 399.2 359.3 Discontinued operations 181.2 13.3 Continuing and discontinued operations 580.4 372.6 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,431.2 1,495.0 Effect of dilutive potential of share options and contingently issuable shares millions 17.8 12.9 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share millions 1,449.0 1,507.9 Diluted earnings per share pence : Continuing operations 27.6 23.8 Discontinued operations 12.5 0.9 Continuing and discontinued operations 40.1 24.7 17.
Net assets per share and return on equity Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts.
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts.
The table below analyses net asset and tangible net asset value per share.
2015 2014 At 31 December m m Net assets 2,630.0 2,810.5 Goodwill and other intangible assets 524.8 517.5 Disposal group intangible assets 5.6 Tangible net assets 2,105.2 2,287.4 Number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,375.0 1,500.0 Shares held by employee share trusts millions 6.3 6.4 Closing number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,368.7 1,493.6 Net asset value per share pence 192.2 188.2 Tangible net asset value per share pence 153.8 153.1 Return on equity The table below details the calculation of return on equity.
2015 2014 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from: Continuing operations 399.2 359.3 Discontinued operations 181.2 13.3 Continuing and discontinued operations 580.4 372.6 Opening shareholders equity 2,810.5 2,790.0 Closing shareholders equity 2,630.0 2,810.5 Average shareholders equity 2,720.2 2,800.2 Return on equity 21.3% 13.3% 144 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 144 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 18.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 342.8 445.7 788.5 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 2.6 2.6 Additions 92.8 92.8 1 Disposal of subsidiary 110.1 1.6 111.7 2 Disposals and write-off 67.2 67.2 Transfer to assets held for sale 21.7 38.6 60.3 At 31 December 2014 211.0 428.5 639.5 Additions 74.7 74.7 2 Disposals and write-off 8.0 8.0 At 31 December 2015 211.0 495.2 706.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2014 131.8 156.6 288.4 Charge for the year relating to continuing operations 56.9 56.9 Charge for the year relating to discontinued operations 2.2 2.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 2.2 2.2 1 Disposal of subsidiary 110.1 0.9 111.0 2 Disposals and write-off 67.2 67.2 Impairment losses 9.6 9.6 Transfer to assets held for sale 21.7 33.0 54.7 At 31 December 2014 122.0 122.0 Charge for the year relating to continuing operations 63.1 63.1 2 Disposals and write-off 8.0 8.0 Impairment losses 4.3 4.3 At 31 December 2015 181.4 181.4 Carrying amount At 31 December 2015 211.0 313.8 524.8 At 31 December 2014 211.0 306.5 517.5 Notes: 1.
Disposal of subsidiary relates to the Tracker business.
Disposals and write-off include fully amortised intangible assets no longer utilised by the Group in its operating activities.
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited 141.0 million and Churchill Insurance Company Limited 70.0 million, which is allocated across Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines and Commercial.
The Groups testing for goodwill impairment includes the comparison of the recoverable amount of each CGU to which goodwill has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the event of indications of impairment.
com 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The table below analyses the goodwill of the Group by CGU.
2015 2014 m m Motor 126.4 126.4 Home 45.8 45.8 Rescue and other personal lines 28.7 28.7 Commercial 10.1 10.1 Total 211.0 211.0 There have been no impairments in goodwill for the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: nil.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU fair value less the costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU.
Fair value is the estimated amount that could be obtained from the sale of the CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs were based on the value-in-use test, using the Groups five-year strategic plan.
The long-term growth rates have been based on GDP rates adjusted for inflation.
The risk discount rates incorporate observable market long-term government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate risk premium based on independent analysis.
The table below details the recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held.
Sensitivity: Impact on Assumptions recoverable amount of a: Terminal Pre-tax Recoverable 1% decrease in 1% increase in 1% decrease growth discount amount in excess terminal growth pre-tax discount in forecast 1 rate rate of carrying value rate rate pre-tax profit % % m m m m CGU Motor 3.0 11.6 816.6 201.6 276.9 26.1 Home 3.0 11.6 764.6 72.2 99.8 9.7 Rescue and other personal lines 3.0 11.6 603.7 55.2 75.5 6.9 Commercial 3.0 11.6 46.9 37.4 50.8 4.5 Note: 1.
Reflects a 1% decrease in the profit for each year of the five-year forecast.
146 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 146 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 19.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold land Other and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 15.3 160.0 175.3 Additions 43.4 43.3 86.7 Disposals 16.6 16.6 Acquisition of subsidiary 25.1 25.1 Disposal of subsidiary 3.5 3.5 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 1.7 1.7 Transfer to assets held for sale note 5C 27.2 27.2 At 31 December 2014 83.8 154.3 238.1 Additions 17.9 49.2 67.1 Disposals 0.1 15.7 15.8 Transfer to assets held for sale note 5C 22.6 22.6 At 31 December 2015 79.0 187.8 266.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2014 1.1 71.9 73.0 Depreciation charge for the year relating to continuing operations 0.6 22.0 22.6 Depreciation charge for the year relating to discontinued operations 3.0 3.0 Disposals 16.3 16.3 Impairment losses 0.1 0.1 Disposal of subsidiary 2.9 2.9 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 1.4 1.4 Transfer to assets held for sale note 5C 21.3 21.3 At 31 December 2014 1.7 55.1 56.8 Depreciation charge for the year relating to continuing operations 1.2 29.5 30.7 Disposals 11.3 11.3 Impairment losses 4.8 4.8 Transfer to assets held for sale note 5C 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2015 2.4 78.1 80.5 Carrying amount At 31 December 2015 76.6 109.7 186.3 At 31 December 2014 82.1 99.2 181.3 20.
Investment property 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 307.2 223.4 Additions at cost 16.0 76.2 Increase in fair value during the year 24.2 28.7 Disposals 21.1 At 31 December 347.4 307.2 Note: 1.
The cost included in carrying value at 31 December 2015 is 295.5 million 2014: 279.5 million.
The investment properties are measured at fair value derived from valuation work carried out at the balance sheet date by independent property valuers.
The valuation conforms to international valuation standards.
The fair value was determined using a methodology based on recent market transactions for similar properties, which have been adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property within the portfolio.
This approach to valuation is consistent with the methodology used in the year ended 31 December 2014.
Lease agreements with tenants are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include contingent rents.
com 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group, over which it exercises 100% voting power, are shown below.
Their capital consists of Ordinary Shares which are unlisted.
All subsidiaries a full list of which is included in note 2 of the Parent Company financial statements are included in the Groups consolidated financial information.
Place of incorporation Name of subsidiary and operation Principal activity DL Insurance Services Limited United Kingdom Management services U K Insurance Limited United Kingdom General insurance On 29 May 2015, the Group completed the sale of its International business comprising Direct Line Insurance S. p. A and Direct Line Versicherung AG for a cash consideration of 438.1 million.
Details of the fair value of assets and liabilities disposed of and the gain on disposal are set out in note 5B.
The Group sold 100% of the share capital of Tracker Network UK Limited on 5 February 2014.
The fair value of the identifiable assets sold was 9.2 million including cash and cash equivalents of 2.4 million and the fair value of the identifiable liabilities was 8.8 million.
The total cash consideration received was 2.7 million, generating a profit on disposal of 2.3 million.
The Group did not dispose of any other subsidiaries in the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of 10-15 Livery Street, Birmingham UK Limited on 22 December 2014 for total cash consideration of 26.1 million.
The fair value of the identifiable assets acquired was 26.2 million including cash and cash equivalents of 1.1 million and the fair value of identifiable liabilities was 0.1 million.
Reinsurance assets 2015 2014 m m Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 975.8 841.9 Impairment provision 53.9 66.4 921.9 775.5 Reinsurers unearned premium reserve 89.5 87.0 Total 1,011.4 862.5 Movements in reinsurance asset impairment provision 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 66.4 53.2 Additional provision 5.0 14.1 Release to income statement 17.5 0.9 At 31 December 53.9 66.4 23.
Deferred acquisition costs 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 208.4 321.5 Net decrease increase in the year 4.6 5.4 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 7.4 Transfer to assets held for sale 111.1 At 31 December 203.8 208.4 148 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 148 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 24.
Insurance and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts: Due from policyholders 800.1 790.7 Impairment provision of policyholder receivables 0.7 0.6 Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 60.0 53.7 Impairment provision of agent, broker and intermediary receivables 1.3 0.7 Other debtors 97.7 116.8 Total 955.8 959.9 25.
Derivative financial instruments 2015 2014 m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement 19.3 24.9 Designated as hedging instruments 0.3 2.4 Total 19.6 27.3 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement 46.3 29.3 Designated as hedging instruments 0.1 0.1 Total 46.4 29.4 Designated hedging instruments at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 include hedging in relation to supplier payments.
At 31 December 2014, the Group also had a foreign currency hedge contract converting Euro to Sterling in respect of the proceeds from the sale of the International business which ceased on completion of the sale.
Financial investments 2015 2014 m m AFS debt securities Corporate 4,182.4 4,117.1 Supranational 140.1 176.3 Local government 105.3 120.7 Sovereign 442.7 993.8 Securitised credit 356.1 422.4 Total 5,226.6 5,830.3 HTM debt securities Corporate 13.5 Total debt securities 5,240.1 5,830.3 Total debt securities Fixed interest rate 4,801.6 5,147.3 Floating interest rate 438.5 683.0 Total 5,240.1 5,830.3 Loans and receivables Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months 44.9 54.7 1 Infrastructure debt 329.6 76.2 Total 5,614.6 5,961.2 Note: 1.
Infrastructure debt portfolio consists of UK floating rate senior loans with interest rates for the year ended 31 December 2015 ranging from 1.2% to 3.5% 2014: 1.8% to 3.4% and remaining maturity of between 8 and 25 years 2014: 8 and 25 years.
com 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 131.8 151.3 Short-term deposits with credit institutions with maturities less than 3 months 831.9 729.1 Cash and cash equivalents 963.7 880.4 1 Bank overdrafts 61.3 69.8 Cash and cash equivalents in assets held for sale note 5B 87.6 Cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts 902.4 898.2 Note: 1.
Bank overdrafts represent short-term timing differences between transactions posted in the records of the Group and transactions flowing through the accounts at the bank.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2015 was 0.56% 2014: 0.61% and average maturity was 10 days 2014: 10 days.
Share capital 2015 2014 Number Number 2015 2014 Millions Millions m m Issued and fully paid: equity shares Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 1,500 150.0 10 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 1,375 150.0 11 At a General Meeting on 29 June 2015, shareholders approved a share consolidation which completed on 30 June 2015.
As 10 a result of the share consolidation, shareholders held 11 new Ordinary Shares of 10 11 pence each issued by the Company in exchange for every 12 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each held immediately prior to the share consolidation, which were cancelled by the Company.
Employee trust shares The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Groups share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market and held by employee share trusts.
10 At 31 December 2015, 6,256,108 Ordinary Shares of 10 11 pence each 2014: 6,391,506 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each were owned by the employee share trusts with a cost of 20.4 million 2014: 13.6 million.
These Ordinary Shares are carried at cost and have a market value of 25.5 million 2014: 18.6 million.
150 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 150 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 29.
Other reserves Movements in the revaluation reserve for AFS investments 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 115.6 58.8 Revaluation during the year gross 100.5 97.2 Revaluation during the year tax 22.0 23.2 Realised gains gross 12.5 22.8 Realised gains tax 2.5 5.6 Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary gross 31.8 Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary tax 10.1 At 31 December 5.4 115.6 Movements in the non-distributable reserve 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 124.9 92.8 Transfer from retained earnings 28.0 32.1 At 31 December 152.9 124.9 The non-distributable reserve is a statutory claims equalisation reserve that is calculated in accordance with the rules of the PRA.
With the introduction of Solvency II on 1 January 2016 the requirement to maintain the reserve ceases and the non-distributable reserve transfers into retained earnings.
Subordinated liabilities 2015 2014 m m Subordinated guaranteed dated notes 521.1 526.3 The subordinated guaranteed dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points which was credit value adjusted to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013.
The nominal 500 million notes have a redemption date of 27 April 2042.
The Group has the option to repay the notes on specific dates from 27 April 2022.
If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves.
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors have been met.
The Group has the option to defer interest payments in certain circumstances on the notes but to date has not exercised this right.
com 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
The claims development and cumulative payments to date by accident year in the above table have been re-presented to exclude the claims and payments in respect of the International business sold on 29 May 2015.
The claims development and cumulative payments to date by accident year in the above table have been re-presented to exclude the claims and payments in respect of the International business sold on 29 May 2015. www.
com 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Insurance liabilities continued Movements in gross and net insurance liabilities Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Claims reported 3,636.4 467.5 3,168.9 Incurred but not reported 1,992.7 449.8 1,542.9 Claims handling provision 128.3 128.3 At 1 January 2014 5,757.4 917.3 4,840.1 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 2,671.6 181.2 2,490.4 Increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current-year claims 2,721.3 288.3 2,433.0 1 Arising from prior-year claims 538.5 77.6 460.9 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 41.1 11.5 29.6 Transfer to liabilities assets held for sale note 5C 553.4 159.8 393.6 At 31 December 2014 4,674.1 775.5 3,898.6 Claims reported 2,791.1 315.3 2,475.8 Incurred but not reported 1,778.2 460.2 1,318.0 Claims handling provision 104.8 104.8 At 31 December 2014 4,674.1 775.5 3,898.6 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 1,978.9 16.0 1,962.9 Increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current-year claims 2,307.6 191.4 2,116.2 Arising from prior-year claims 478.3 29.0 449.3 At 31 December 2015 4,524.5 921.9 3,602.6 Claims reported 2,732.2 375.0 2,357.2 Incurred but not reported 1,697.9 546.9 1,151.0 Claims handling provision 94.4 94.4 At 31 December 2015 4,524.5 921.9 3,602.6 Note: 1.
Decrease in net liabilities arising from prior-year claims in 2014 includes a 10.1 million reserve release for the discontinued International business.
Movement in prior-year net claims liabilities by operating segment 2015 2014 m m Motor 266.8 278.4 Home 41.9 49.8 Rescue and other personal lines 13.6 15.7 Commercial 56.6 53.7 Total ongoing 378.9 397.6 Run-off 70.4 53.2 Total 449.3 450.8 32.
Unearned premium reserve Movement in unearned premium reserve Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2014 1,818.7 93.7 1,725.0 Net movement in the year 33.4 18.6 52.0 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 24.9 2.1 22.8 Transfer to liabilities assets held for sale note 5C 326.2 23.2 303.0 At 31 December 2014 1,434.2 87.0 1,347.2 Net movement in the year 42.4 2.5 39.9 At 31 December 2015 1,476.6 89.5 1,387.1 154 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 154 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 33.
Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution scheme The pension charge for continuing operations in respect of the defined contribution scheme for the year ended 31 December 2015 was 23.5 million 2014: 23.9 million.
The charge for discontinued operations was 0.9 million 2014: 1.8 million.
Defined benefit scheme The Groups defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although the Group remains the sponsoring employer for obligations to current and deferred pensioners based on qualifying years service and final salaries.
The defined benefit scheme is legally separated from the Group with trustees who are required by law to act in the interests of the scheme and of all the relevant stakeholders.
The trustees of the pension scheme are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2015 is 20 years 2014: 20 years using accounting assumptions.
The table below sets out the principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit scheme obligations.
2015 2014 % % Rate of increase in pension payment 2.1 2.1 Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.1 2.1 Discount rate 3.8 3.4 Inflation rate 3.2 3.1 No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no obligations in the scheme that are linked to future increases in salaries.
Post-retirement mortality assumptions 2015 2014 Life expectancy at age 60 now: Males 87.8 88.5 Females 89.9 90.2 Life expectancy at age 60 in 20 years time: Males 90.1 90.4 Females 92.3 92.3 The table below analyses the fair value of the scheme assets by type of asset.
2015 2014 m m Equities 3.0 Index-linked bonds 21.5 22.2 Government bonds 13.7 12.8 Corporate bonds 43.8 44.4 Liquidity fund 5.5 Other 0.6 0.7 Total 85.1 83.1 The majority of debt and equity instruments have quoted prices on active markets.
com 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movement in net pension surplus deficit Present value of Fair value of defined benefit Net pension defined benefit scheme surplus scheme assets obligations deficit m m m At 1 January 2014 66.0 68.0 2.0 Income statement: 1 Net interest income cost 2.9 3.0 0.1 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 12.9 1.0 13.9 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 11.1 11.1 Contributions by employer 2.8 2.8 Benefits paid 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2014 83.1 79.6 3.5 Income statement: 1 Net interest income cost 2.8 2.7 0.1 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial losses gains arising from experience adjustments 1.9 1.2 0.7 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1.1 1.1 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 6.3 6.3 Contributions by employer 2.8 2.8 Benefits paid 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2015 85.1 72.0 13.1 Note: 1.
The net interest income cost in the income statement has been included under other operating expenses.
The table below details the history of the scheme for the current and prior years.
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit scheme obligations 72.0 79.6 68.0 61.2 54.1 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 85.1 83.1 66.0 63.7 56.7 Net surplus deficit 13.1 3.5 2.0 2.5 2.6 Experience adjustment gains losses on scheme liabilities 1.2 1.0 0.2 0.1 0.4 Experience adjustment losses gains on scheme assets 1.9 12.9 1.3 2.2 2.6 Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes to the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions.
The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques.
Impact on present value of defined benefit Impact on pension cost scheme obligations 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Discount rate 0.25% increase in discount rate 0.2 0.2 3.7 4.1 0.25% decrease in discount rate 0.2 0.1 3.7 4.1 Inflation rate 0.25% increase in inflation rate 1.7 2.1 0.25% decrease in inflation rate 1.7 2.1 Life expectancy 1 year increase in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 2.0 1.8 1 year decrease in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 2.0 1.8 The most recent funding valuation of the defined benefit scheme took place as at 1 October 2014.
The Group agreed with the trustees to make a contribution of 2.8 million in 2016 with further contributions of up to 1.5 million per annum in 2017 and 2018 to meet the schemes funding requirements.
156 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 156 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 34.
Share-based payments The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in the form of an LTIP, a Restricted Shares Plan, a DAIP and Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans, including both the Free Share awards and a Buy-As-You-Earn Plan, details of which are set out below.
All awards are to be satisfied using market purchased shares.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP with awards granted in the form of nil-cost options.
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued employment by the Group and also the Group achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE.
Awards were made in the year ended 31 December 2015 over 1.7 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 5.5 million at the March 2015 grant date 2014: 2.2 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 4.3 million and 1.7 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 5.9 million at the August 2015 grant date 2014: 2.0 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 4.7 million.
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The table below details the inputs into the model.
2015 2014 Weighted average assumptions during the year: Share price pence 339 270 Exercise price pence 0 0 Volatility of share price 20% 26% Average comparator volatility 27% 30% Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk-free rate 0.8% 1.1% Expected volatility was determined by considering the actual volatility of the Groups share price since IPO and that of a group of listed UK insurance companies.
Plan participants are entitled to receive additional shares in respect of dividends paid to shareholders over the vesting period.
Therefore no deduction has been made from the fair value of awards in respect of dividends.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Restricted Shares Plan The purpose of the Restricted Shares Plan is to facilitate the wider participation in Group share based awards to eligible employees.
These awards can be granted at any time during the year, generally have no performance criteria, and vest over periods ranging between one and three years from the date of the grant, subject to continued employment.
During the year awards were made over 15,705 Ordinary Shares 2014: 509,103 Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 0.1 million 2014: 1.4 million using the market value at the date of grant.
Deferred Annual Incentive Plan To incentivise delivery of performance over a one-year operating cycle, Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible for awards under the Annual Incentive Plan, of which at least 40% is granted in the form of a nil-cost option under the DAIP with the remainder being settled in cash following year end.
In March 2015 awards were made over 1.0 million Ordinary Shares 2014: 1.1 million Ordinary Shares under this plan with an estimated fair value of 3.4 million 2014: 2.6 million using the market value at the date of grant.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2015 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for three years from the date of grant.
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Free Share awards In March 2015, the Group offered all eligible UK employees a Free Share award granting 122 Ordinary Shares free of charge.
These awards have no performance criteria attached and vest on the third anniversary of the award grant date, subject to completion of three years, continuing employment.
The Group initially granted 1.3 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 4.2 million using the market value at the date of grant.
com 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Share-based payments continued Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Buy-As-You-Earn Plan The Buy-As-You-Earn Plan entitles employees to purchase shares from pre-tax pay for between 10 and 150 per month and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased.
In the year ended 31 December 2015, matching share awards were granted over 0.3 million Ordinary Shares 2014: 0.3 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 1.1 million 2014: 0.8 million.
The fair value of each matching share award is estimated using the market value at the date of grant.
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued employment with the Group together with continued ownership of the associated purchased shares up to the point of vesting.
The following table details the outstanding number of share awards in issue all nil-cost awards.
Number of Number of share awards share awards millions millions 2015 2014 At 1 January 16.4 11.4 1 Granted during the year 6.8 6.1 Impact of share consolidation see note 28 1.6 Forfeited during the year 1.5 0.8 Exercised during the year 2.9 0.3 At 31 December 17.2 16.4 Exercisable at 31 December 1.6 0.3 Note: 1.
In accordance with the rules of the LTIP and DAIP award plans, additional awards of 0.8 million shares were granted during the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: nil in respect of the equivalent dividend.
In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2015, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.44 years 2014: 1.66 years.
No share awards expired during the year 2014: nil.
The weighted average share price for awards exercised during the year ended 31 December 2015 was 3.95 2014: 2.56.
The Group recognised total expenses in the year ended 31 December 2015 of 12.1 million 2014: 6.6 million relating to equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
Further information on share-based payments, in respect of Directors, is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
158 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 158 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 35.
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 2015 2014 m m Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 22.5 19.3 Due to reinsurers 78.9 57.0 Due to insurance companies 4.7 5.3 Trade creditors and accruals 295.5 342.8 Other creditors 98.8 96.5 Other taxes 78.9 55.0 Provisions 73.1 79.4 Deferred income 4.1 5.3 Total 656.5 660.6 Movement in provisions during the year Regulatory levies Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2015 26.5 8.4 44.5 79.4 Additional provision 32.0 6.0 44.9 82.9 Utilisation of provision 31.3 3.7 45.0 80.0 Released to income statement 1.7 7.5 9.2 At 31 December 2015 27.2 9.0 36.9 73.1. www.
com 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 2015 2014 m m Profit for the year 580.4 372.6 Adjustments for: Investment return 235.2 237.2 Instalment income 101.5 105.2 Finance costs 37.6 37.2 Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 12.1 6.6 Tax charge 127.7 105.2 Depreciation and amortisation expenses 95.3 84.8 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 9.1 9.6 Impairment movements on reinsurance contracts 12.5 13.2 Impairment movements on assets held for sale freehold property 12.9 9.6 Profit on disposal of assets held for sale disposal group 167.1 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 4.7 0.3 Profit on disposal of subsidiary 2.3 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 363.5 294.4 Movements in working capital: Net decrease in net insurance liabilities including reinsurance assets, unearned premium reserves and deferred acquisition costs 194.5 589.0 Net increase in prepayments and accrued income and other assets 2.8 19.1 Net decrease in insurance and other receivables 66.4 59.2 Net increase decrease in trade and other payables including insurance payables 52.3 57.9 Contribution to retirement benefit obligations 2.8 2.8 Cash generated from used by operations 149.3 315.2 Taxes paid 107.4 94.8 Cash flow hedges 0.2 0.6 Net cash flow generated from used by operating activities before investment of insurance assets 42.1 410.6 Interest received 318.7 358.5 Rental income received from investment property 17.9 16.2 Purchases of investment property 16.0 76.2 Proceeds on disposal of investment property 21.1 Proceeds on disposal maturity of AFS debt securities 3,549.3 3,141.0 Net increase decrease in financial investments: loans and receivables 242.5 304.8 Purchases of AFS debt securities 3,110.8 2,644.3 Purchase of HTM debt securities 13.5 Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 503.1 1,121.1 37.
Contingent liabilities The Group did not have any contingent liabilities at 31 December 2015 2014: none.
160 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 160 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 38.
Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into non-cancellable operating lease agreements for properties, vehicles and other assets.
2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 18.4 25.6 The minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense for discontinued operations during the year ended 31 December 2015 were 0.8 million 2014: 2.5 million.
The following table analyses the outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases by the period in which they fall due.
2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Within one year 16.2 17.1 In the second to fifth years inclusive 51.7 55.1 After five years 161.9 178.5 Total 229.8 250.7 There were no outstanding commitments in relation to the Groups discontinued operations at 31 December 2015 2014: 11.5 million.
Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor The following table analyses future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of property leased to third-party tenants.
2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Within one year 15.7 14.6 In the second to fifth years inclusive 53.6 51.7 After five years 89.3 99.6 Total 158.6 165.9 There were no commitments by third parties to make lease payments to the Groups discontinued operations at 31 December 2015 2014: nil.
com 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 39.
Fair value The methodology adopted by the Group for fair value measurement of investment properties, financial assets and liabilities and the basis for determining the fair value hierarchy are explained in note 2.3.
Comparison of carrying value to fair value of financial instruments The following table compares the carrying value and the fair value of financial instruments excluding the disposal group note 5B.
Differences arise where the measurement basis of the asset or liability is not fair value e. g. assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost.
Fair value Carrying value Fair value Carrying value 2015 2015 2014 2014 m m m m Financial assets Derivative assets note 25 19.6 19.6 27.3 27.3 AFS debt securities note 26 5,226.6 5,226.6 5,830.3 5,830.3 HTM debt securities note 26 12.7 13.5 Deposits with credit institutions three months note 26 44.9 44.9 54.7 54.7 Infrastructure debt note 26 322.2 329.6 76.0 76.2 Financial liabilities Subordinated liabilities note 30 623.2 521.1 651.9 526.3 Derivative liabilities note 25 46.4 46.4 29.4 29.4 Fair values of the following assets and liabilities including assets and liabilities held in the disposal group note 5B approximate their carrying values: Insurance and other receivables Cash and cash equivalents Borrowings Trade and other payables including insurance payables excluding provisions Fair value hierarchy analysis The tables below analyse the Groups assets and liabilities carried at fair value excluding the disposal group note 5C by reference to the Groups fair value hierarchy note 2.3.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m At 31 December 2015 Investment property note 20 347.4 347.4 Derivative assets note 25 19.6 19.6 AFS debt securities note 26 442.7 4,783.9 5,226.6 Total assets 442.7 4,803.5 347.4 5,593.6 Derivative liabilities note 25 46.4 46.4 Total liabilities 46.4 46.4 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 31 December 2014 m m m m Investment property note 20 307.2 307.2 Derivative assets note 25 27.3 27.3 AFS debt securities note 26 985.6 4,844.7 5,830.3 Total assets 985.6 4,872.0 307.2 6,164.8 Derivative liabilities note 25 29.4 29.4 Total liabilities 29.4 29.4 The movements in assets classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy are all within Investment property and are analysed in note 20.
There were no changes in the categorisation of assets between Levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year for assets and liabilities held at 31 December 2014.
162 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 162 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 40.
Related parties Transactions between the Groups subsidiary undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and accordingly are not disclosed.
RBS Group was formerly a related party of the Group, as a result of its ownership of Ordinary Shares, up until the point of selling its remaining shares on 27 February 2014.
The RBS Group transactions and balances included below are for historical transactions, prior to the date of sale when the related party relationship ceased.
Transactions with related parties 2015 2014 m m Sale of insurance contracts and other services 0.3 Purchase of services 19.7 Sale and purchase of products and services were conducted on an arms length basis.
Year end balances arising from sales and purchases of products and services to and from related parties Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Total 0.2 0.2 25.4 Movement in amounts owed by and to related parties Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m At 1 January 0.2 0.9 25.4 58.7 Transactions in the year 0.1 19.1 Settled in the year 0.8 25.4 52.4 At 31 December 0.2 0.2 25.4 Compensation of key management 2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 9.5 10.2 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.3 Termination benefits 0.4 Share-based payments 4.5 3.4 Total 14.2 14.3 www.
com 163 Parent Company balance sheet As at 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Assets Investment in subsidiary undertakings 2 3,067.4 3,065.0 Other receivables 4 540.8 523.3 Current tax assets 5 1.2 Derivative financial instruments 6 0.4 2.4 Financial investments 7 7.1 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents 8 29.8 51.2 Assets held for sale 3 114.8 Total assets 3,645.5 3,763.0 Equity 3,131.6 3,258.2 Liabilities Subordinated liabilities 10 503.9 503.1 Derivative financial instruments 6 0.4 0.6 Trade and other payables 11 6.6 1.1 Current tax liabilities 5 3.0 Total liabilities 513.9 504.8 Total equity and liabilities 3,645.5 3,763.0 The attached notes on pages 167 to 171 form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
They were signed on its behalf by: John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer Direct Line Insurance Group plc Registration No.
02280426 164 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 164 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Parent Company statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 m m Profit for the year 539.5 436.7 Other comprehensive loss income Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement: Cash flow hedges 1.2 1.2 Other comprehensive loss income net of tax 1.2 1.2 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the Company 538.3 437.9 Parent Company statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December 2015 Foreign Share-based exchange Total Share Capital payment translation Retained shareholder capital reserves reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2014 150.0 1,450.0 3.9 1,611.9 3,215.8 Total comprehensive income for the year 1.2 436.7 437.9 Dividends paid 401.1 401.1 Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 6.6 6.6 Shares distributed by employee trusts 1.0 1.0 Balance at 31 December 2014 150.0 1,450.0 9.5 1.2 1,647.5 3,258.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 1.2 539.5 538.3 Dividends paid 666.0 666.0 Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 12.1 12.1 Shares distributed by employee trusts 11.0 11.0 Balance at 31 December 2015 150.0 1,450.0 10.6 1,521.0 3,131.6 The attached notes on pages 167 to 171 form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
com 165 Parent Company cash flow statement For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Net cash used by operating activities 13 3.1 0.1 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received on loans to subsidiary undertakings 47.5 47.6 Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings 671.0 446.7 Net increase in loans advanced to subsidiary undertakings 21.8 Capital contribution to subsidiary undertakings 225.0 Disposal of investments in subsidiary undertakings 2 2.7 Disposal of assets held for sale 3 224.3 Purchase of AFS debt securities 2.0 5.1 Net cash generated from investing activities 694.0 491.9 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 12 666.0 401.1 Finance costs 46.3 46.3 Net cash used by financing activities 712.3 447.4 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 21.4 44.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 8 51.2 6.8 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 8 29.8 51.2 The attached notes on pages 167 to 171 form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
166 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 166 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015
