16310 Edinburgh pp31 36 16310 Edinburgh pp31 36 26 05 2015 19:58 Page 35 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Edinburgh Investment Trust Plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out on pages 37 to 56.
In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of its total return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Carrying amount of Listed Investments 1,480 million Refer to page 20 Audit Committee Report, page 40 accounting policy and notes 9 and 17 financial disclosures.
The risk: The Companys portfolio of listed investments makes up 97% of the Companys total assets by value and is considered to be the key driver of the Companys capital and revenue performance.
We do not consider these investments to be at high risk of significant misstatement, or to be subject to a significant level of judgement, because they comprise liquid, quoted investments.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the financial statements as a whole, they are considered to be the area which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing our audit.
Our response: Our procedures over the completeness, valuation and existence of the Companys portfolio of listed investments included, but were not limited to: documenting and assessing the processes in place to record investment transactions and to value the portfolio: agreeing the valuation of 100% of the investments to externally quoted prices: and agreeing 100% of the investment holdings to independently received third party confirmations.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 30.5 million determined with reference to a benchmark of Total Assets of which it represents 2%.
In addition, we applied a materiality of 6.44 million to income from investments, investment management fees and finance cost of borrowings for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the Companys members assessment of the financial performance of the Company.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1.52 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our audit of the Company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was performed at the Companys service providers Invesco Fund Managers Limited and Bank of New York Mellon Limited based in London.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
16310 Edinburgh pp31 36 16310 Edinburgh pp31 36 20 05 2015 13:28 Page 36 36 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 19 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 34, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Catherine Burnet Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Saltire Court, 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh EH1 2EG 20 May 2015
