Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Electra Private Equity PLCs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements Give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of the groups profit and the groups and the companys cash flows for the year then ended: The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: The Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 30 September 2015: The Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: The Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year then ended: The Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Context Each year we undertake a planning process which involves meeting with the independent investment manager the Manager to understand the changes in the investment portfolio and to discuss any potentially complex valuations or accounting issues.
The groups return is driven by the performance of the underlying private equity investee companies in which it holds a stake and so the underlying performance and prevailing trading conditions of these companies is of particular relevance to our audit.
Overview Materiality: Overall group materiality: 26.3 million which represents 1.75% of Net Assets.
Audit scope: The principal activities of the group comprise investing in a portfolio of unlisted investments.
The financial statements are a consolidation of the parent company and a number of subsidiaries which hold the investments.
The significant subsidiaries and the parent company are based solely in the UK.
We audited the financial statements of the two significant subsidiaries, the parent company and the investments held at fair value within entities controlled by the group which themselves do not require an audit.
Areas of focus Valuation of unlisted investments.
Recognition of investment income and net gains.
Calculation of incentive schemes provision.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
104 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of unlisted investments The unlisted investments are initially valued by the Manager and then Refer to page 130 Report of the Audit subject to review by the groups Valuations Committee.
We attended the Committee, page 96 Basis of Accounting Valuations Committee meeting to observe this process and discuss with and Significant Accounting Policies and the Valuations Committee our comments on certain investments.
We also page 72 Notes to the Financial Statements.
discussed with and challenged the Manager as to the appropriateness of the valuations, using our knowledge of the investments and the The group holds investments in unlisted International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation guidelines.
companies as well as various private equity funds and listed companies.
The valuation Applying a multiple to earnings has been used as the valuation of the unlisted investments is complex and methodology for 92% of the value of the unlisted investments.
For a requires the application of significant sample of investments we tested the techniques that the Manager used judgement by the directors.
The unlisted to value these unlisted investments as follows: investments are valued on a basis considered most appropriate by the We obtained the Managers valuation model containing earnings, directors, dependent on the nature of the trading multiples for listed comparable companies and the multiple underlying business which has been used to value the investment.
This includes: We checked the mathematical accuracy of the model.
We obtained management information including budgets and Applying a multiple to earnings: forecasts from the portfolio companies being valued.
We used this to Using recent transaction prices: and corroborate the earnings being used in the model in relation to the Using underlying asset valuations.
We assessed the appropriateness of the earnings being used based on our understanding of the financial Where a multiple is applied to earnings the performance of the portfolio companies.
multiple is normally calculated by taking a We independently sourced trading multiples for comparable discount to the multiple of similar, listed companies including, where applicable, considering whether other companies.
The discount reflects differences companies may be relevant and compared them to the multiples between these companies and the used in the valuation.
company being valued, for example, size We challenged management on the discount taken to these and marketability differences between comparable multiples to arrive at the multiple used in their listed and unlisted companies.
This included considering changes in the discount since the latter of the deal date and the prior year-end and considering Both determining the valuation how this compared relative to the performance of the portfolio methodology and determining the inputs company against the relevant industry sector.
to the valuation are subjective.
This, combined with the significance of the Based on this work, we were satisfied that the assumptions used by the unlisted investments balance to the Balance directors were within an acceptable range and that the calculations were Sheet, meant that this was an area of focus mathematically accurate.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 105 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview Area of focus continued How our audit addressed the area of focus continued Where a recent transaction price had been used to fair value investments, we challenged the Manager on whether there had been any changes in facts and circumstances since the deal date which may indicate that a change in valuation would be appropriate.
This included the use of financial information to assess the performance of the company.
Where underlying asset valuations were used, we corroborated these by tracing them to supporting documentation such as third party valuation reports and did not identify any issues as a result of this testing.
We assessed, using our knowledge of the investments and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation guidelines, whether the valuation methodologies applied to value the investments tested were appropriate and were satisfied that they were.
We also read the disclosures made in the financial statements regarding the key sensitivities in the valuations and were satisfied that these sensitivities were described appropriately in the notes to the financial statements.
Recognition of investment income and We tested investment income receipts by tracing a sample to net gains supporting documentation and performing procedures, including: See page 96 to the financial statements for the directors disclosures of the related Agreeing amounts to bank statements: and accounting policies, judgements and Recalculating accrued interest based on the terms of the underlying policies and page 72 for further information.
Investment income comprises mainly We recalculated unrealised net gains using the valuation movement in dividends and interest received from investments over the year.
These gains were supported by the work we investments.
performed over the investment valuations as outlined above.
Net gains represent movements in the fair We recalculated realised gains using the difference between the value value of investments over the financial year of the investment at the date of disposal and the proceeds received as and gains made on the disposal of per supporting documentation, such as sales agreements and bank investments.
Fair value movements are statements.
unrealised and are the change in investment valuations which, in themselves, are We did not identify any differences as a result of this work.
We assessed the appropriateness of the allocation of investment Investment income and net gains is the income and net gains between income and capital and were satisfied measure used to calculate the returns being that these had been allocated based on the requirements of the achieved by the group and so there is an Association of Investment Companies Statement of Recommended incentive for management to overstate this Practice and on a basis consistent with prior years.
figure in order to enhance results.
This, combined with the size of the balance, made this an area of focus.
Investment income and net gains are presented as either income or capital in the primary statements depending on the nature of the underlying transaction.
106 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 Area of focus continued How our audit addressed the area of focus continued Calculation of incentive schemes provision We recalculated the amounts due to the Manager using the See pages 96 to 103 of the financial methodology and fee rates outlined in underlying scheme statements for the directors disclosures of documentation in the management agreements.
the related accounting policies, judgements and policies and note 22 for further Where applicable, we checked inputs to the calculation back to information.
supporting documentation by: Incentive scheme provisions comprise Agreeing gains recognised on the sale of investments to the work amounts payable to certain members we performed over net gains: of the Manager to compensate them for Agreeing the gross value of investments to the work we performed their services in a way which aligns their over the fair value of investments: and remuneration with investment Agreeing total profits and returns to the work we performed over performance.
There are a number of investment income.
different schemes in place and the calculations are relatively complex, which This testing did not identify any differences.
increases the risk of error.
We also recalculated the returns achieved to check that the conditions The incentive scheme provisions are of the incentive scheme agreements had been met before the calculated based on a percentage share incentives were paid and found the calculations to be mathematically of a combination of: accurate.
The gross value of investments held: For the priority profit share we recalculated the amounts paid each Total profits and returns of the quarter and agreed the inputs to the calculation to the underlying investments: and accounting records.
We also agreed a sample of payments to bank Profits realised on the sale statements and checked that the calculation was consistent with the of investments.
underlying priority profit share agreement and was mathematically accurate.
No differences were identified as a result of this testing.
In some instances the percentages are variable based on when certain returns are achieved.
This, together with the dependency on investment valuations, means that some of the calculations are based on subjective judgements.
In addition, the Manager is paid a priority profit share based on a percentage of the value of investments at each quarter end.
Similarly to the incentive schemes, the investment valuations are a key input to the calculation and these are subjective in nature.
The nature of both the incentive scheme provisions and priority profit share charges means that there may be an incentive for these to be overstated.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 107 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview The group has one line of business which is to make investments, primarily in the private equity sector.
The objective of the group is to increase the value of these investments over the long-term in order to deliver returns to shareholders.
The group comprises a number of subsidiary companies, including limited partnerships which hold the investments.
The Manager of the investments is not part of the group.
All accounting is performed by a finance function in the UK.
Audit work was performed in respect of the two significant subsidiaries which require an audit of their own financial statements together with the parent company.
The limited partnerships, which hold the investments, do not require an audit: however, we have audited the investments held by them.
This, together with procedures performed over the consolidation, provided the evidence we needed for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 26.3 million 2014: 21 million.
How we determined it 1.75% of Net Assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that net assets is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the group, and this is a generally accepted auditing benchmark used for companies in this industry.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.3 million 2014: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 116, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are also required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in respect of that statement.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 125 to 129 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
108 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report.
Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 132, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 We have no exceptions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual to report.
Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 130, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address to report.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group and the company Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust We have nothing material assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten to add or to draw its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they We have nothing material are being managed or mitigated.
to add or to draw attention to.
The directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the We have nothing material prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider to add or to draw that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a attention to.
reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 109 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 132, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alison Morris Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 23 October 2015 London a. T he maintenance and integrity of the Electra Private Equity PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
110 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 AXIO Data Group B2B information services Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 111
