64 Independent Independent auditor auditors s report to report to the the members members of of esure Group esure Group plc plc only only Independent auditors report The determination of claims outstanding is complex.
This balance Opinions and conclusions arising consists of specific claims reserves for reported claims in from our audit addition to an estimate for claims incurred but not reported 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements IBNR as some claims can take some time to emerge or is unmodified develop.
Actuarial techniques are required to determine the We have audited the financial statements of esure Group plc actuarial best estimate and thus deduce the IBNR by deducting for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 67 claims already reported.
The completeness and accuracy to 114.
In our opinion: of the data underlying the actuarial projections is a key area of focus as well.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs The Directors apply their judgement, supported by quantitative as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for and qualitative analysis to inform their views, to set the claims the year then ended: outstanding reserves at a level that they consider to be the Group financial statements have been properly appropriate by including a margin over the actuarial best prepared in accordance with International Financial estimate, in order to take account of current uncertainties Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: around factors that may influence the eventual settlement of the claims.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers: Standards including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure The valuation of claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers Framework: and is dependent on, but not directly correlated to, the valuation the financial statements have been prepared in of the underlying claims outstanding.
In particular, there is accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act judgement involved in ascertaining the level of reinsurance 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, IBNR held, which depends on the specific terms of the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Additionally, reinsurance recoveries are also subject to credit risk associated with 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement reinsurer credit default.
Credit risk is particularly relevant In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial for the recoveries associated with the claims outstanding statements the risks of material misstatement that had that have a long duration.
the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Claims outstanding 614.2m 2014: 597.3m and Our response claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers 209.3m Gross claims outstanding: 2014: 194.4m.
Our audit procedures included testing governance arrangements and key controls around the internal reserving Refer to page 36 Audit Committee Report, page 76 process, including controls over the setting of reserves for accounting policy and pages 97 to 101 financial disclosures.
reported claims and controls over the completeness and accuracy of the data underlying the actuarial projections The risks used to set the reserve for IBNR.
As part of its business model the Group incurs insurance claims and there is typically a time lag between a claim We evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity being incurred and being settled.
As a result, the Group has of the internal and external actuaries used by the Group, significant claims outstanding at any point in time, including based on discussions with them, our knowledge of the the year-end, and there is inherent uncertainty as to the actuaries qualifications and the professional standards level at which these claims outstanding will be settled.
that their work is subject to, and by providing challenge At 31 December 2015 the Group had claims outstanding to their analysis through the procedures described below.
representing 56% 2014: 57% of total liabilities, and claims We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in our outstanding recoverable from reinsurers representing 14% challenge of the reserving methodology and the key 2014: 15% of total assets.
assumptions used including the discount rate and longevity assumptions used for PPOs as well as considerations of the Gross claims outstanding: potential impact of large weather losses during the period.
The valuation of claims outstanding is one of the key We have assessed these assumptions for reasonableness, judgemental areas upon which our audit is concentrated, through analytical procedures including claims development due to the level of subjectivity inherent in the estimation trends over time, as well as consistency with prior periods.
of the effect of uncertain or unknown future events and We considered the movement in reserves relating to claims the resulting potential exposure to large losses.
This includes incurred in prior years to assess the reasonableness of losses arising from periodic payment orders PPOs for motor Directors past assumptions and the methodology used insurance a structured settlement in the form of a regular to estimate claims outstanding.
Where there have been series of payments over the remainder of a claimants life changes in the methodology or key assumptions we have and which inherently has considerable uncertainty associated assessed whether these are reasonable based on changes with it in respect of longevity and cost inflation, see page 97 in the industry and the Groups historical claims experience, and extreme weather condition losses for home insurance.
and have considered whether all changes we would expect to see have been made.
We have also considered the reasonableness of the differences in methodologies, assumptions and projections between the internal and esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 65 external actuary by understanding the rationale for both 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by approaches and comparing the impact of these differences the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified on the outputs in the context of materiality for the Group In our opinion: financial statements.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We benchmarked the Groups methodology, key be audited has been properly prepared in accordance assumptions and projected results such as the ultimate with the Companies Act 2006: and loss ratios against our expectations given our cumulative the information given in the Strategic Report and knowledge of the sector.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the In respect of the margin that the Directors have set over financial statements are prepared is consistent with the internal actuarial best estimate, we considered the the financial statements.
consistency of the margin applied against developments 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures in the level of uncertainty over the claims.
This also included of principal risks critical assessment of the quantitative and qualitative Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, considerations made by the Directors when selecting we have nothing material to add or draw attention the specific level of margin to be held for the period as to in relation to: well as consideration of industry related benchmarks.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups the Directors viability statement on page 24, concerning disclosures over the degree of estimation uncertainty the principal risks, their management, and, based on and the sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the in assumptions, and assessed whether the disclosures Groups continuing in operation over the next 3 years comply with relevant accounting standards.
to 31 December 2018: or the disclosures on page 62 concerning the use of the Claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers: going concern basis of accounting.
We evaluated and tested key controls around reinsurers share of claims outstanding, including the governance 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters process in determining reinsurance IBNR and reinsurance on which we are required to report by exception credit controls.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report We used our own actuarial specialists to assist in evaluating to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our the appropriateness of reinsurance recoveries on IBNR audit, we have identified other information in the Annual by considering the historical ratios of paid and reported Report that contains a material inconsistency with either claims, net of reinsurance recoveries to paid that knowledge or the financial statements, a material and reported claims, gross of reinsurance recoveries.
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
We assessed the methodology applied to calculate the In particular, we are required to report to you if: allowance for reinsurance bad debt, by reference to we have identified material inconsistencies between common approaches within the market and consistency the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the with prior periods.
We assessed the existence of any Directors statement that they consider that the Annual potential indicators of credit default issues with regard Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, to reinsurance over reported claims through analysing balanced and understandable and provides the information aged debt and reinsurance counterparty credit ratings.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview and performance, business model and strategy: or of the scope of our audit the Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole address matters communicated by us to the Audit was set at 6.6m 2014: 7.2m, determined with reference Committee.
to a benchmark of Group total income 2014: profit before tax of which it represents approximately 1%.
This year we Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report revisited our approach to materiality and it was determined to you if, in our opinion: that the materiality benchmark of Group total income was adequate accounting records have not been kept by a more appropriate measure than profit before tax.
Our view the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit is that total income provides a more stable measure year have not been received from branches not visited on year against which to scope our audit and is an appropriate by us: or representation of the size of the business.
the parent company financial statements and the part We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited identified misstatements exceeding 0.3m 2015: 0.4m, are not in agreement with the accounting records and in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted returns: or reporting on qualitative grounds.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified The audit of the whole Group including its components was by law are not made: or undertaken by the Group audit team and covered 100% we have not received all the information and explanations of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax and total we require for our audit.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 66 Independent auditors report to the members of esure Group plc only continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 62, in relation to going concern and page 24 in relation to longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 28 to 41 relating to the Companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 63, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Philip Smart Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 7 March 2016 esure Group Annual Report 2015
