FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS independent Custodian for the sole purpose of our risk UNMODIFIED assessment procedures: obtaining a confirmation from the In our opinion the Financial Statements: independent Custodian of the investments they were holding atthe year end: checking a sample of purchase and sale give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs transactions back to contract notes and the Companys bank as at 31 March 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: account: and testing the reconciliation of the independent Custodians statement to the records maintained by the have been properly prepared in accordance with Companys administrator.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Our response on valuation: Our audit work on valuation included, but was not restricted to, obtaining a controls report prepared by have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of a third party auditor on the description, design and operating the Companies Act 2006. effectiveness of controls implemented by the investment management operations of the Manager for the sole purpose of WHO WE ARE REPORTING TO our risk assessment procedures: understanding managements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a process to value quoted investments and the unquoted equity body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies linked notes: agreeing the valuation of 100% of the quoted Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might investments and 100% of the prices of the underlying quoted state to the Companys members those matters we are required investments used to value the unquoted equity linked notes to an to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
independent source of market prices: and in order to confirm To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or investments were actively traded we obtained trading volumes of assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the quoted investments held directly and those quoted investments Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this underlying the unquoted equity linked notes at the year end.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
The Companys accounting policy on the valuation of quoted WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED investments is shown in Note 2 and its disclosures about Fidelity China Special Situations PLCs Financial Statements investment movements are included in Note 10.
The Audit comprise the Income Statement, the Statement of Changes in Committee also identified the valuation, existence and ownership Equity, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the of investments as a significant issue in its report on page 30, related Notes to the Financial Statements.
where the Committee also describes how it addressed this issue.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Existence, completeness and valuation of long and short preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the contracts for differences CFDs or derivatives and related European Union.
disclosures The risk: As a consequence of the Companys investment strategy OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK the company has a significant exposure to both long and short In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we highlight the CFDs, having a market exposure of 160 million.
There is a risk following risks that are, in our judgement, likely to be most that CFDs owned by the Company may not be recorded, those important to users understanding of our audit.
that are may not exist or may not be correctly valued and the exposure may not be properly disclosed.
We therefore identified Ownership and valuation of investments existence, completeness and valuation of long and short CFDs as The risk: The Companys business is investing principally in risks that required particular audit attention.
securities issued by companies listed in China or Hong Kong and Chinese companies listed elsewhere, with a view to achieving Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, long-term capital growth.
As a consequence of this, the Company understanding managements process for approving has significant exposure to investments comprising of quoted counterparties to enter into derivative contracts: obtaining investments and unquoted equity linked notes, which are the confirmations from approved counterparties of all CFDs entered main drivers of returns, with the investment portfolio valued at into during the year and open at the year end: testing the 1.0 billion.
There is a risk that investments shown in the Balance valuation of 100% of the CFDs by agreeing the contract price to Sheet may not be owned by the Company or are incorrectly the counterpartys confirmation and the year end market price to valued.
We identified ownership and valuation of investments as an independent source of market prices: checking that the risks that required particular audit attention.
market exposures had been correctly calculated: checking a sample of purchase and sale transactions back to contract notes Our response on ownership: In order to confirm that the and the Companys bank account: and checking that the investments referred to above were owned by the Company our required disclosures relating to the CFDs had been given in the audit work included, but was not restricted to, understanding Financial Statements.
managements process to safeguard assets: obtaining a controls report prepared by a third party auditor on the description, The Companys accounting policy on the valuation of CFDs is design and operating effectiveness of controls at the shown in Note 2 and its disclosures about derivative movements Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 35 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC are included in Note 11.
The Audit Committee also identified the ALLOCATION OF AUDIT TESTING TIME valuation, existence and ownership of investments including The chart below identifies the allocation of time in our audit derivatives as a significant issue in its report on page 30, where testing of the main parts of the Financial Statements.
the Committee also describes how it addressed this issue.
Where we focused our audit effort Completeness and occurrence of investment income The risk: The Company measures performance on a total return Investments and basis and investment income is one of the significant derivative instruments components of this performance measure in the Income 22% Investment Income Statement.
We identified completeness and occurrence of Directors remuneration investment income as risks that required particular audit attention.
36% Other areas of focus 8% Investment Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, management and assessing whether the Companys accounting policy for revenue performance fee 4% recognition was in accordance with International Accounting Management override Standard IAS 18 Revenue: obtaining an understanding of the 6% of controls 2% 22% Companys process for recognising revenue in accordance with Corporate and financial the stated accounting policy: testing whether a sample of income reporting transactions were recognised in accordance with the policy: for a sample of investments held in the year, obtaining the ex-dividend dates and rates for dividends declared during the year from an OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF independent source and agreeing the expected dividend THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT entitlements to those recognised in the Financial Statements: Materiality performing cut-off testing of dividend income around the year We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the end: and checking the categorisation of special dividends as Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic either revenue or capital receipts was appropriate.
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We determined materiality for the audit The Companys accounting policy on the recognition of of the Financial Statements as a whole to be 9.44 million, which investment income is shown in Note 2 and the components of is 1% of the Companys Net Assets.
This benchmark is considered that income are included in Note 3.
The Audit Committee also most appropriate because Net Assets, which is primarily identified the recognition of investment income as a significant composed of the Companys investment portfolio, is considered issue in its report on page 30, where the Committee also to be the key driver of the Companys total return performance.
describes how it addressed this issue.
We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 75% of Calculation of the investment management and financial statement materiality.
We also determine a lower level performance fees of specific materiality for the revenue column of the Income The risk: The Company receives from the Manager, management, Statement and for certain other items such as the investment accounting, administrative and secretarial services pursuant management and performance fees, Directors remuneration torevised Management Agreements dated 17 July 2014. and related party transactions.
Theseagreements provide for the payment of an investment management fee and a performance fee provided certain We determined a threshold at which we communicate specified conditions have been met.
We identified a risk of misstatements to the Audit Committee of 0.47 million for the calculation error in both the investment management fee and Financial Statements as a whole, while also communicating the erformance fee and as being a risk requiring particular misstatements below that threshold that warrant reporting on audit attention.
Our response: In order to assess the accuracy of the investment Overview of the scope of our audit management fee and the performance fee, we recalculated the We conducted our audit in accordance with International expected management and performance fees based on the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities terms of the revised Management Agreements and compared under those standards are further described in the this to the amounts recognised in the Income Statement.
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we The Companys disclosure of the investment management and have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis performance fees is shown in Note 4.
The Audit Committee also for our opinion.
identified the performance fee calculation as a significant issue in its report on page 30, where the Committee also describes how it addressed this issue.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 36 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC We are independent of the Company in accordance with the the Annual Report does not appropriately disclose those Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors, and we matters that were communicated to the Audit Committee have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of you if, in our opinion: the Companys business and is risk-based.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches The day-to-day management of the Companys investment not visited by us: or portfolio, the maintenance of accounting records, custody of investments and administrative and company secretarial services the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors are outsourced to third-party service providers.
Accordingly, our Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with audit work included obtaining an understanding of, and the accounting records and returns: or evaluating, relevant internal controls at both the Company and third-party service providers.
This included obtaining and reading certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law internal controls reports prepared by the Managers internal audit are not made: or function and those from third party auditors in respect of the independent Custodian and the investment management we have not received all the information and explanations we operations provided by the Manager.
We undertook substantive require for our audit.
testing on significant transactions, balances and disclosures, the extent of which was based on various factors such as our overall Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: assessment of the control environment and the design and the Directors Statement, set out on page 23, in relation to implementation of controls and the management of specific risks.
going concern: and OTHER REPORTING REQUIRED BY REGULATIONS the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK 2006 is unmodified.
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
In our opinion: RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited What an audit of Financial Statements involves: has been properly prepared in accordance with the A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements Companies Act 2006: and isprovided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements What the Directors are responsible for: are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 34, the Directors are responsible MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being ExCEPTION satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: What we are responsible for: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and materially inconsistent with the information in the audited International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Financial Statements: or standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Marcus Swales Senior Statutory Auditor otherwise misleading.
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants In particular, we are required to report to you if: London we have identified any inconsistencies between our 11 June 2015 knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: or Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 37 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
