237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp60-pp64 IAR 14 12 2015 11:02 Page 60 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 60 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC Report on the Financial Statements Our opinion In our opinion, Finsbury Growth and Income Trust PLCs financial statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of its return and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited The Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Income Statement for the year ended 30 September 2015: the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders' Funds for the year then ended: the Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2015: the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality: Overall materiality: 6.7 million which represents 1% of net assets.
Audit Scope: The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages Frostrow Capital LLP the AIFM to manage its assets.
We conducted our audit of the Financial Statements at the offices of the AIFM and at Phoenix Administration Services Limited Phoenix who the AIFM has engaged to provide certain accounting, administrative and valuation functions to the AIFM of the Company.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
Areas of Focus: Investment income.
Valuation and existence of investments.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp60-pp64 IAR 14 12 2015 11:02 Page 61 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 61 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, the key area being the valuation of the one unquoted investment.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Investment income We assessed the accounting policy for Investment Income recognition for Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and performed testing page 48 Accounting Policies and page 50 to check that income had been accounted for in accordance with this stated notes.
accounting policy as set out in note 1 c on page 48 of the Financial Statements.
We understood and assessed the design and implementation of key controls We focused on the accuracy and surrounding Investment Income recognition.
completeness of Investment income recognition and its presentation in the Income In addition, we tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates from Statement as set out in the requirements of all investments to independent third party sources.
To test for completeness, The Association of Investment Companies we tested that the appropriate dividends had been received in the year by Statement of Recommended Practice the reference to independent data of dividends declared by a sample of AIC SORP.
This is because incomplete or investment holdings in the portfolio.
inaccurate investment income could have a We tested the allocation and presentation of Investment Income between the material impact on the Companys net asset income and capital return columns of the Income Statement in line with the value and dividend cover.
requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
We then tested the validity of income and capital special dividends to independent third party sources.
Valuation and existence of investments We tested the valuation of the listed equity investments by agreeing the prices Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, used in the valuation to independent third party sources.
page 48 Accounting Policies and page 53 We tested the existence of the investment portfolio by agreeing the holdings notes.
for investments to an independent custodian confirmation from BNY Mellon.
The investment portfolio at the year-end principally comprised listed equity investments valued at 693m.
We focused on the valuation and existence of investments because investments represent the principal element of the net asset value as disclosed on the Balance Sheet in the Financial Statements.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the types of investment within the company, the involvement of the AIFM and Phoenix, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
The AIFM outsources certain accounting, administrative and valuation functions to Phoenix.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp60-pp64 IAR 14 12 2015 11:02 Page 62 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 62 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment in place at both the AIFM and Phoenix to the extent relevant to our audit.
This assessment involved obtaining and reading the relevant control reports, issued by the independent auditor of the AIFM and Phoenix in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work, to gain an understanding of both the AIFMs and Phoenixs control environment and to consider the operating and accounting structure at both the AIFM and Phoenix.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the Financial Statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual Financial Statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 6.7 million 2014: 4.9 million.
How we determined it 1% of net assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 335,000 2014: 245,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on pages 43 and 48, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are also required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 43, in accordance with provision We have no exceptions to C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the report.
Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp60-pp64 IAR 14 12 2015 11:02 Page 63 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 63 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC the section of the Annual Report on page 36, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions to Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address report.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust We have nothing material assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its to add or to draw business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are We have nothing material being managed or mitigated.
to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects We have nothing material of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be to add or to draw appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the attention to.
Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company, set out on page 66.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp60-pp64 IAR 14 12 2015 11:02 Page 64 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 64 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 43, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alex Bertolotti Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 10 December 2015
