OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION Independent Auditors Report Report on the financial statements Our opinion the Income Statement for the year then ended: In our opinion, Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLCs financial the Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: statements the financial statements : the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of at 31 December 2015 and of its net return and cash flows for the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are Companies Act 2006. identified as audited.
What we have audited The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the The financial statements, included within the Report and Accounts preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and the Annual Report, comprise: United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015: Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Our audit approach JJ Overview Materiality Overall materiality: 27.0 million which represents 1% of net assets.
The company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages F&C Investment Business Limited the Manager to manage its assets.
Audit We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within Scope the company, the involvement of the third party referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the company operates.
Areas of focus Valuation and existence of investments.
Report and Accounts 2015 | 47 JJ The scope of our audit and our areas of focus there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards material misstatement due to fraud.
on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Income We focused on the accuracy and We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for compliance with accounting completeness of dividend income standards and the AIC SORP and performed testing to check that income had been recognition and its presentation in the accounted for in accordance with this stated accounting policy as set out in note 2 on pages Income Statement as set out in the 57 to 60 of the financial statements.
requirements of The Association of We found that the accounting policies implemented were in accordance with accounting Investment Companies Statement of standards and the AIC SORP, and that income has been accounted for in accordance with Recommended Practice the AIC SORP.
This is because incomplete or inaccurate We understood and assessed the design and implementation of key controls surrounding income could have a material impact income recognition.
on the companys net asset value and dividend cover.
We tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates of investments to independent third party sources.
We also focused on gains losses on investments held at fair value.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
To test for completeness, we tested that appropriate dividends had been received in the year by reference to independent data of dividends declared by investment holdings from within the portfolio.
Our testing did not identify any unrecorded dividends.
We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the revenue and capital return columns of the Income Statement, in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
We then tested the validity of income and capital special dividends to independent third party sources.
We did not find any special dividends that were not treated in accordance with the AIC SORP.
The gains losses on investments held at fair value comprise realised and unrealised gains losses: For unrealised gains losses, we obtained an understanding of, and then tested the valuation process as set out in the Valuation and existence of investments area of focus, to ascertain whether these gains losses were appropriately calculated.
For realised gains losses, we tested disposal proceeds by agreeing the proceeds to bank statements and sale agreements and we re-performed the calculation of a sample of realised gains losses.
Refer to page 41 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 57 to 60 Accounting Policies and pages 60 to 78 notes.
48 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation and existence of investments The investment portfolio at the year-end We tested the valuation of the investment portfolio as follows: comprised of quoted equity investments For quoted equity investments we tested the prices used in the valuation to independent 2,654 million and investments in third party sources: Private Equity funds and other unquoted For investments in Private Equity funds, we obtained confirmation of the valuation from investments 278 million.
the Private Equity managers, Pantheon Ventures Limited and HarbourVest Partners LLC.
We discussed the valuations with them and the Manager in order to challenge and We focused on the valuation and substantiate the valuations applied.
We read the accounting policies for a sample of the existence of investments because underlying funds to assess whether they follow a fair value approach.
We considered investments represent the principal the controls reports issued by the Private Equity managers, Pantheon Ventures Limited element of the net asset value as and HarbourVest Partners LLC, to understand and evaluate the controls in place around disclosed on the Balance Sheet in the the valuation and reporting procedures and obtained letters bridging to year end.
also assessed the accuracy of prior year valuations which were based on estimates and unaudited financial statements, by reference to their respective audited financial statements obtained during the year.
We tested the existence of the quoted investment portfolio by agreeing the holdings for investments to an independent custodian confirmation received from JP Morgan Chase Bank.
We tested the existence of the unquoted investment portfolio by agreeing holdings to statements received directly from Pantheon Ventures Limited and HabourVest Partners LLC.
Refer to page 41 Report of the Audit Committee, page 57 Accounting Policies and page 65 notes.
JJ How we tailored the audit scope generally accepted assurance standards for such work.
We then We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed identified those key controls at the Administrator on which we could enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial place reliance to provide audit evidence.
We also assessed the gap statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure period of three months between the period covered by the controls of the company, the accounting processes and controls, and the report and the year-end of the company.
Following this assessment, industry in which the company operates.
we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements, including We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed whether we needed to perform additional testing in respect of those enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial key controls to support our substantive work.
For the purposes of statements as a whole, taking into account the types of investments our audit, we determined that additional testing of controls in place within the company, the involvement of the Manager and State at the Administrator was not required because additional substantive Street Bank and Trust Company the Administrator, the accounting testing was performed.
processes and controls, and the industry in which the company JJ operates.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of The Manager delegates certain accounting and administrative materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
functions to the Administrator on which they report to the Manager.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items in place at both the Manager and the Administrator to the extent and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both relevant to our audit.
This assessment of the operating and individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
accounting structure in place at both organisations involved obtaining and reading the relevant control reports issued by the independent Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for auditor of the Manager and the Administrator in accordance with the financial statements as a whole as follows: Report and Accounts 2015 | 49 Overall materiality JJ ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our 27.0 million 2014: 25.8 million.
opinion: How we determined it information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 1% of net assets.
financial statements: or Rationale for benchmark applied apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted the course of performing our audit: or auditing practice for investment trust audits, in the absence otherwise misleading.
of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be more We have no exceptions to report.
appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
the statement given by the directors on page 43, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual misstatements identified during our audit above 1.4 million 2014: Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable 1.3 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in and provides the information necessary for members to assess our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the JJ Going Concern company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors We have no exceptions to report.
statement, set out on pages 23 and 72, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the section of the Annual Report on page 41, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
to the directors statement about whether they considered it We have no exceptions to report.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the JJ financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw The directors assessment of the prospects of the company attention to.
and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the company As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the the directors confirmation on page 22 of the Annual Report, date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions the company, including those that would threaten its business can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks Other required reporting and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Consistency of other information JJ Companies Act 2006 opinions the directors explanation on page 23 of the Annual Report, In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
50 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter principal risks facing the company and the directors statement 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
in relation to the longer-term viability of the company.
Our review We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the What an audit of financial statements involves course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and performed our review.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material JJ Adequacy of accounting records and information and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an explanations received assessment of: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the our opinion: companys circumstances and have been consistently applied we have not received all the information and explanations we and adequately disclosed: require for our audit: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns the directors: and adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not the overall presentation of the financial statements.
visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with directors judgements against available evidence, forming our the accounting records and returns.
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
JJ Directors remuneration We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive Companies Act 2006. procedures or a combination of both.
JJ Other Companies Act 2006 reporting In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified audited financial statements and to identify any information that is by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent this responsibility.
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements JJ Corporate governance statement or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of  LLP statements and the audit Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Our responsibilities and those of the directors London As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities 7 March 2016 set out on page 45, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Report and Accounts 2015 | 51 Your Board remains focused on the effective management of our cost base.
We have reduced our ongoing charges from 0.87% to 0.80% in 2015.
52 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
