Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Greggs plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the accounts is unmodified We have audited the accounts of Greggs plc for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 set out on pages 70 to 99.
In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 2 January 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the accounts the risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit was as follows: Provisions net charge in year 1.2 million, provision in balance sheet 5.6 million Refer to page 46 Audit Committee report, pages 76 and 79 accounting policy and page 97 financial disclosures.
The risk The Group leases the majority of its shops and has almost 1,500 shop leases at the end of the year.
It is therefore exposed to the risk of onerous leases and dilapidation costs.
Where shops are closed prior to the end of the lease term or are not trading sufficiently well to recover the committed lease costs there is a risk that an element of the lease will be onerous.
Determining the level of onerous lease provisions involves estimation of the length of time and cost at which lease arrangements can be exited and forecasting and discounting future cash flows, both of which are inherently uncertain.
The level of dilapidation provision involves estimation of the costs anticipated to make good any alterations to properties as required by lease agreements.
Our response Our audit procedures in respect of property provisions included: In respect of onerous lease provisions recognised we critically assessed whether the provisions identified by the Directors met the criteria for recognition.
We considered the completeness of provisions for all leases where the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligation may exceed the economic benefit expected to be received under the lease through the identification of shops closed during the year, poorly performing shops and those identified for provision in the prior year.
For all onerous leases provided for, we tested the mathematical accuracy and challenged the reasonableness of the Groups model for calculating the provision, as well as agreeing key inputs such as lease term, break clauses and rental value to the relevant lease agreements.
For closed shops we critically assessed the Directors estimate of total costs to exit the lease by challenging key assumptions including the time it would take to exit, the level of incentives to sublease or penalties to be paid to landlords and other costs to exit or sublet a shop such as legal fees or dilapidation costs.
We also considered the most recent expectation of the relevant local in-house property surveyor responsible for each shop, supported by third-party evidence including offers made, communications with third-party agents or contracts agreed to surrender or sublease properties.
We considered the historical experience of the Group at exiting similar properties and the costs involved in doing so.
We also considered the location of each closed shop and the impact this may have on the time and costs expected to exit these leases as well as the possible income from subletting these shops if possible.
We challenged the Directors assumptions relating to onerous lease provisions for shops still trading.
This included consideration of the discounted cash flow forecasts on a shop-by-shop basis and assessing the cash flow forecasts against the historical performance of those shops and against the Groups budgets.
For dilapidation provisions we critically assessed whether provisions identified by the Directors met the criteria for recognition.
We also considered the completeness of provisions including the consideration of shops where there is indication of likely dilapidation exposure taking into account historical experience of the Group.
We considered the historical experience of the Group in respect of likely level of dilapidation costs.
We considered specific issues on certain Group properties, such as the shops which previously had in-store bakeries, and critically assessed the impact of these on the provisions made.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provisions and the sensitivity to key assumptions involved.
We continued to perform procedures over the impairment of property, plant and equipment.
However, following the improved performance of the Group, we have not assessed this as one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Independent auditors report to the members of Greggs plc only continued 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the accounts as a whole was set at 3.6 million 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015: 2.9 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of which it represents five per cent 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015: determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax normalised to exclude that years exceptional charge as disclosed in Note 4, of 58.3 million, of which it represents five per cent.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements identified exceeding 181,000 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015: 145,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100 per cent 2014: 100 per cent of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax and total Group assets.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the accounts are prepared is consistent with the accounts.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors viability statement on page 25, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2018: or the disclosures on page 76 concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the accounts, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statements that they consider that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 25 and 76, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the corporate governance statement on page 39 relating to the Companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
68 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mick Thompson Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Quayside House 110 Quayside Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 3DX 1 March 2016 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
