GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC Report on the financial statements OUR OPINION accordance with the provisions of the Statements of Changes in Equity for the Companies Act 2006: and year then ended: and In our opinion: the financial statements have been the notes to the financial statements, Hargreaves Lansdown plcs Group prepared in accordance with the which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory financial statements and Parent Company requirements of the Companies Act information.
financial statements the financial 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements give a true and fair view of statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the state of the Groups and of the Parent The financial reporting framework that Companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED has been applied in the preparation of the of the Groups profit and the Groups and financial statements is applicable law and the Parent Companys cash flows for the The financial statements comprise: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union year then ended: the Consolidated and Parent Company and, as regards the Parent Company financial the Group financial statements have Statements of Financial Position as at 30 statements, as applied in accordance with the been properly prepared in accordance June 2015: provisions of the Companies Act 2006. with International Financial Reporting the Consolidated Income Statement and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Certain required disclosures have been preEuropean Union: Income for the year then ended: sented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather the Parent Company financial statements the Consolidated and Parent Company than in the notes to the financial statements.
have been properly prepared in Statements of Cash Flows for the year These are cross-referenced from the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by then ended: statements and are identified as audited.
the European Union and as applied in the Consolidated and Parent Company OUR AUDIT APPROACH Materiality Overview Overall Group materiality: 9.95 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 18 reporting units, 9 of which are dormant.
Audit scope We perform a full scope audit of the complete financial information of 2 reporting units, which together represent 94% of the Groups profit before tax.
Specific procedures were also performed on a further 3 reporting units to audit stockbroking settlement receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents, shares held Areas of by the employee benefit trust EBT and the EBT reserve.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with considering future events that are inherently identified as an areas of focus in the table International Standards on Auditing UK and uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also below.
We have also set out how we tailored Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
addressed the risk of management override our audit to address this specific area in of internal controls, including evaluating order to provide an opinion on the financial We designed our audit by determining whether there was evidence of bias by the statements as a whole, and any comments we materiality and assessing the risks of material directors that represented a risk of material make on the results of our procedures should misstatement in the financial statements.
In misstatement due to fraud.
This is not a complete particular, we looked at where the directors list of all risks identified by our audit.
made subjective judgements, for example in The risk of material misstatement that had respect of significant accounting estimates the greatest effect on our audit, including that involved making assumptions and the allocation of our resources and effort, is Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 67 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition refer to the Audit Committee report, revenue Asset and transaction based revenue streams recognition section of note 2, and note 4 To address the risk identified in the asset and transaction based revenue We focus on revenue recognition because it is material and is an important streams calculated by the underlying administration system, we independently determinant of the Groups profitability.
In addition, there are a number of reperformed the calculation of each revenue stream using data extracted from incentive schemes in place for both directors and staff which are in part based the Groups system.
In order to rely on the data extracted, we: on the Groups revenue performance, and certain share schemes for senior management with earnings per share performance conditions attached to reconciled transactional data provided from opening positions through to them.
As in any organisation where there are incentives based on performance, closing positions of individual securities held: and this gives rise to an inherent risk of fraud in revenue recognition as there is an tested a sample of transactions to customer instructions and a sample of incentive to overstate revenue.
security positions to stock reconciliations and external sources such as fund manager statements.
We have assessed each revenue stream for the in-scope reporting units and determined that there is a significant risk in relation to each of the revenue This testing provided sufficient evidence for us to determine that the data streams.
The risk is dependent upon the opportunity to commit fraud in each extracted was reliable for the purposes of performing the recalculations.
Our assessment for each revenue type is as follows: recalculations were performed as follows: using data auditing techniques, we reperformed the calculation of platform fees, management fees, renewal commission and stockbroking commission Type of revenue Description, including fraud risk factors based on the data extracted from the underlying administration system: and Revenue streams These revenue streams are calculated based on we tested the inputs of our recalculations by agreeing standing data, such calculated by either the value of assets held or based on the as fee structures, commission rates, and security prices, to supporting the underlying number of trades made by a customer, multiplied evidence on a sample basis.
administration by the relevant rate.
system: In testing the standing data, we noted 1 exception.
We extended our sample Platform fees and found no further exceptions.
On the basis of this testing, we determined The value of securities and data on trades is Management fees held in the underlying administration system that it was appropriate for us to use the standing data in order to perform which supports the Vantage and PMS platforms.
our independent recalculation of each of the revenue streams.
We compared Renewal commission The rates are derived from the standard rate our independent recalculation of platform fee, management fee, renewal tables for management fees, platform fees, Stockbroking commission and stockbroking commission to the amount reported and noted and stockbroking commission.
For renewal commission differences that, in our view, were trivial and required no further investigation.
commission it is based on agreements with fund groups.
Unauthorised changes to these inputs could allow Manually calculated revenue streams manipulation of revenue.
Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers HLFM AMCs We agreed 100% of the revenue through to cash received in bank statements Revenue streams The AMCs are manually calculated by management and manually recalculated the HLFM AMCs.
We noted differences that, in our manually calculated based on the net asset value of funds provided by view, were trivial and required no further investigation.
by management: Northern Trust, an independent third party, and the published AMC rate.
Multi-manager fund Annual Management Gross interest on client money is calculated by Interest on client money Charges AMCs management based on the deposit balance and the We manually recalculated the gross interest earned on client money based on rate agreed with the bank.
Interest on client records maintained by management, and tested these by agreeing a sample of money Opportunity therefore arises from manipulating deposits and interest rates to documentation received from the relevant bank.
manual spreadsheet based calculations which are also inherently risky.
Using data auditing techniques, we recalculated the amount of interest In addition, a proportion of the gross interest on paid to clients using the daily cash balance as recorded in the underlying client money is due to customers, and is calculated administration system, and standard rates.
To rely on the cash data based on rate tables and daily cash balances on extracted from the system, we tested a sample of cash movements to the Vantage and PMS IT platforms.
The net interest supporting documentation.
In addition, we agreed a sample of rates to those is the amount recognised as revenue.
Therefore the communicated to customers.
opportunity to commit fraud on interest on client money also arises from unauthorised changes to No exceptions were noted from our testing of cash movements, or testing of the interest rates paid to customers which impacts the revenue recognised by the Group the rates communicated to customers and, on this basis, we determined that it was appropriate for us to use this data in order to perform our independent recalculation of interest paid to clients.
We compared our independent recalculation of interest paid to clients to the amount reported and noted differences that, in our view, were trivial and required no further investigation.
68 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 GOVERNANCE How we tailored the audit scope An entity was considered to be financially Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure significant if it contributed more than 15% of The scope of our audit was influenced by that we performed enough work to be able to consolidated profit before tax.
We set certain give an opinion on the financial statements as quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, a whole, taking into account the geographic In addition, we determined that there were together with qualitative considerations, structure of the Group, the accounting three entities which required an audit of helped us to determine the scope of our processes and controls, and the industry in specific account balances, being stockbroking audit and the nature, timing and extent of our which the Group operates.
settlement receivables and payables, cash and audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of cash equivalents and shares held by the EBT misstatements, both individually and on the The Group financial statements are a and the EBT reserve.
consolidation of 18 separate legal entities.
There are five trading subsidiaries, two of All of the audit work was performed by the Based on our professional judgement, we which we consider to be financially significant Group engagement team in the UK as all determined materiality for the financial reporting units and on which we performed an books and records were available at one statements as a whole as follows: audit of their complete financial information.
Overall Group materiality 9.95 million 2014: 10.5 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We consider this benchmark is the most appropriate benchmark for a profit orientated group, and is a generally accepted auditing practice, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate.
This basis of calculating materiality is consistent with that applied in the prior year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that have nothing to report having performed our As part of our audit we have concluded that we would report to them misstatements review.
the directors use of the going concern basis is identified during our audit above 497,000 appropriate.
2014: 500,000 as well as misstatements As noted in the directors statement, the below that amount that, in our view, directors have concluded that it is appropriate However, because not all future events or warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
to prepare the financial statements using the conditions can be predicted, these statements going concern basis of accounting.
The going are not a guarantee as to the Groups and concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a Going concern Parent Company has adequate resources to going concern.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to remain in operation, and that the directors review the directors statement, set out on intend it to do so, for at least one year from page 65, in relation to going concern.
We the date the financial statements were signed.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 69 Other required reporting CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & IRELAND REPORTING Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 36, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report arising from this UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken responsibility.
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 44, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report arising from this describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
ADEQUACY OF INFORMATION AND We have no exceptions to report arising from OTHER COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED this responsibility.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required Under the Companies Act 2006 we are to report to you if, in our opinion, certain required to report to you if, in our opinion: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to we have not received all the information Directors remuneration report - Companies report arising from this responsibility.
and explanations we require for our audit: Act 2006 opinion or In our opinion, the part of the Directors adequate accounting records have not Remuneration Report to be audited has been CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT been kept by the Parent Company, or properly prepared in accordance with the returns adequate for our audit have not Companies Act 2006.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to been received from branches not visited review the part of the Corporate Governance by us: or Statement relating to the Parent Companys the Parent Company financial compliance with ten provisions of the UK statements and the part of the Directors Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing Remuneration Report to be audited are to report having performed our review.
not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
70 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 GOVERNANCE b Legislation in the United Kingdom the reasonableness of significant Responsibilities for the governing the preparation and accounting estimates made by the financial statements and dissemination of financial statements directors: and may differ from legislation in other the overall presentation of the financial the audit jurisdictions.
We primarily focus our work in these areas OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF by assessing the directors judgements THE DIRECTORS against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in As explained more fully in the Statement of the financial statements.
Directors Responsibilities on page 66, the directors are responsible for the preparation We test and examine information, using of the financial statements and for being sampling and other auditing techniques, to satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
Our responsibility is to audit and express We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive an opinion on the financial statements in procedures or a combination of both.
accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to In addition, we read all the financial and comply with the Auditing Practices Boards non-financial information in the Report and Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Financial Statements the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with This report, including the opinions, has the audited financial statements and to been prepared for and only for the Parent identify any information that is apparently Companys members as a body in accordance materially incorrect based on, or materially with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We by us in the course of performing the audit.
If do not, in giving these opinions, accept or we become aware of any apparent material assume responsibility for any other purpose misstatements or inconsistencies we consider or to any other person to whom this report is the implications for our report.
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Craig Gentle Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL  LLP STATEMENTS INVOLVES Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors An audit involves obtaining evidence about Bristol the amounts and disclosures in the financial 16 September 2015 statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are a The maintenance and integrity of the free from material misstatement, whether Hargreaves Lansdown plc website is the caused by fraud or error.
This includes an responsibility of the directors: the work assessment of: carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters whether the accounting policies are and, accordingly, the auditors accept no appropriate to the Groups and Parent responsibility for any changes that may Companys circumstances and have been have occurred to the financial statements consistently applied and adequately since they were initially presented on the disclosed: website.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 71
