76 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Independent auditors report to the members of Hastings Group Holdings plc only Our response We assessed the governance process Opinions and conclusions arising from including whether the Group had followed their documented our audit reserving policy in setting claims reserves.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements over the completeness and accuracy of claims data underlying is unmodified the actuarial projections used by the internal and external We have audited the Financial Statements of Hastings Group actuaries to set the IBNR reserves.
Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 79 to 137.
In our opinion: Using our actuarial specialists to support us, we considered The Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the the findings of the Groups internal actuary report and, state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs Willis Towers Watson, the independent actuary.
Through as at 31December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the critical assessment of these actuarial reports and supporting year then ended: documentation, and through discussion with both actuaries, we analysed the differences in reserving methodology applied The Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly by both actuaries and we challenged the key assumptions being prepared in accordance with International Financial used.
We assessed these assumptions for reasonableness Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union through the use of analytical procedures, an assessment IFRSs as adopted by the EU : of claims development trends and benchmarking to market The Parent Company Financial Statements have been data.
Where there have been changes in methodology or key properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted assumptions, we have assessed whether these are reasonable by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions based on changes in the industry and the Groups historical of the Companies Act 2006: and claims experience.
The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance In addition, we considered the results of the outturn of claims with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, reserves determined from prior periods to assess whetherthe as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 Group has historically set adequate reserves.
We assessed the of the IAS Regulation.
margin held in excess of the actuarial best estimate reserves against the reserving methodology, prior periods for consistency 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and any potential uncertainties that have been reserved for In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial within the margin.
Statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: We conducted further detailed analysis into areas of most significant uncertainty which included an assessment of Outstanding claims liabilities 591.7m as at 31December2015, the PPO model and large bodily injury claims reserves refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, note 2 accounting development which included assessing if key assumptions policies and pages 112 to 115 financial disclosures.
such as the impaired mortality and propensity percentages are consistent with actuarial market data.
We have also The risk Reserving for outstanding claims liabilities is the considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about area requiring the most significant judgement in the Financial the degree of estimation uncertainty and the sensitivity of Statements.
The Group maintains reserves to cover the recognised amounts to changes in assumptions, and assessed estimated cost of settling all expected future claims with whether the disclosures comply with relevant accounting respect to losses or injuries, whether or not those losses standards.
or injuries have been reported to the Group.
Estimating the reserves required for claims incurred but not reported IBNR Reinsurance assets 547.5m as at 31 December 2015, to the Group involves significant judgement and the use of refer to page 59 Audit Committee report, note 2 accounting actuarial and statistical projections.
This includes whether policies and pages 112 to 115 financial disclosures.
any of the larger bodily injury claims will result in any periodical payment orders PPOs which are payments The risk As part of the Groups overall risk mitigation, made periodically over several years or even the lifetime the Group purchases quota share and non-proportional of a policyholder.
PPOs and potential PPOs increase the excess of loss reinsurance.
There is judgement involved complexity and uncertainty of the estimation of reserves due in the assessment of whether insurance risk has been to the increased range of assumptions required.
There is a risk transferred to the reinsurer so that an asset can be of misstatement of IBNR liabilities due to the claims data, a key recognised.
The amount of reinsurance asset to recognise input to the reserving process, being incomplete against the IBNR claims reserves is particularly judgemental or inaccurate.
as this is inherently linked to the judgements and estimates involved in reserving process.
The calculation of the reinsurance asset is therefore impacted by the judgements and estimations made as part of the reserving process.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 77 The risk of default by a reinsurer is a significant inherent risk.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the If any reinsurer fails to pay the Group, or fails to pay on a scope of our audit timely basis, the Group could experience significant losses or The materiality for the Consolidated Financial Statements liquidity difficulties.
Though the Group spreads its reinsurance as a whole was set at 4.7m, determined with reference to cover across a panel of different reinsurers, the Group a benchmark of Group net revenue of which it represents bears credit risk to each counterparty.
We consider net revenue to be the most appropriate reinsurance asset on the balance sheet requires significant benchmark as it provides a more stable measure year judgement to reflect the credit risk exposure, especially to on year than group profit before tax.
We report to the longer-term assets arising as a result of recoveries from IBNR Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified and PPO claims reserves.
misstatements exceeding 0.2m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on Our response We tested the process and controls over the qualitative grounds.
All 10 reporting components of the Group approval of new reinsurance contracts in order to support the were subjected to audits for group reporting purposes and recognition of a reinsurance asset.
covered 100% of total Group revenue, 100% of Group profit before tax and 100% of total Group assets.
These audits For the reinsurance share of claims outstanding, we assessed were undertaken by the Group audit team with the exception the assets against the terms of the reinsurance contracts and of Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL where the the related recorded liability.
audit was undertaken by overseas component auditors who reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team We used our own actuarial specialists to assess the suitability instructed the overseas component auditor, KPMG Gibraltar, and recoverability of the reinsurance assets over IBNR as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant claims reserves estimated at the year end by considering risks and the information to be reported back.
The Group the historical reinsurance recovery ratios whilst taking into audit team approved the AICL materiality of 3.2m, which consideration changes in the underlying reinsurance program.
was also applied by all components for the audit for group Our actuaries assessed the methodology for establishing reporting purposes.
reinsurance share of IBNR claims reserves against current market practices and for consistency with prior periods.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies act 2006 is unmodified We tested credit controls over new and existing reinsurance In our opinion: contracts and the monitoring controls over the credit ratings The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be of the panel of reinsurers to assess the risk of default.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with We assessed the credit ratings of the panel of reinsurers the Companies Act 2006: and against rating agencies.
We assessed the reasonableness of the reinsurance bad debt assumptions and checked The information given in the Strategic Report and the the post period end receipts of reinsurance receivables Directors Report for the financial year for which the to provide evidence over the recoverability of the year Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with end reinsurance assets.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The Directors Viability Statement on page 40, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2018: or The disclosures in note 1 of the Financial Statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
78 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Independent auditors report continued 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters Scope and responsibilities on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you Statement set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being have identified other information in the annual report that satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided or the Financial Statements, a material misstatement of fact, on the Financial Reporting Councils website at or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers We have identified material inconsistencies between the regarding our responsibilities, published on our website knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are statement that they consider that the Annual Report and incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, understandable and provides the information necessary for the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy: or The Audit Committee section of the Corporate Governance tim Butchart Report does not appropriately address matters Senior Statutory Auditor communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Chartered Accountants to you if, in our opinion: 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 14 March 2016 not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The Directors statement, set out on page 50, in relation to going concern: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 55 to 57 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 79 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of profit or loss 80 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 81 Consolidated balance sheet 82 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 83 Consolidated statement of cash flows 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 85 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company balance sheet 131 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 132 Parent Company statement of cash flows 133 Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 134
