Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited Our response: Opinions and conclusions Our audit procedures with respect to the valuation of unlisted arising from our audit investments included, testing the Groups controls over the Opinion on financial statements challenge and approval of the valuation process.
We communicated We have audited the consolidated financial statements the directly with the project entities and asset managers for each financial statements of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the investment to identify circumstances which may materially impact Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year the underlying cash flow forecasts.
On this basis, we critically ended 31 March 2015 which comprise the Consolidated Income assessed the reasonableness of the cash flow forecasts.
Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity, the Consolidated We also challenged the key assumptions to the valuation using Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting our own valuation specialists and performed benchmarking and framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable sensitivity tests in relation to these assumptions.
We evaluated law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the competency of the Groups external valuation expert in the the European Union EU.
In our opinion, the financial statements: context of their ability to generate a reliable estimate of the fair value, by assessing their professional qualifications, experience give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at and independence from the Group.
We also held discussions 31 March 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: with the external valuation expert and considered whether their findings were consistent with the results of the audit work we have been properly prepared in accordance with International had performed.
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU: and comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the fair value of the unlisted investments, specifically the estimates Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and judgements taken by the Group in arriving at the fair value of the The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this unlisted investments.
We also considered the disclosure of the report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional degree of sensitivity when a reasonably possible change in a key judgement, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit assumption could give rise to a change in the fair value of the strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the unlisted investments.
efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is our audit not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable level of express an opinion on these individual risks.
Auditing standards describe a misstatement or an omission as material if it could reasonably be In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our basis of the financial statements.
The auditor has to apply audit was as follows: judgement in identifying whether a misstatement or omission is material and to do so the auditor identifies a monetary amount as Valuation of unlisted investments 1,709.7m materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Refer to pages 75 to 77 of the Audit Committee Report, Note 2 The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 17 accounting policies and Note 4 financial instruments million.
This has been calculated using a benchmark of the Groups gross assets of which it represents approximately 1% which we The Risk: believe is the most appropriate benchmark as gross assets is 98% of the Groups total assets by value are held in investments considered to be one of the principal considerations for members of where no quoted market price is available.
The Group measures its the Company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
investments in PFI PPP P3 projects at fair value.
The valuations are performed using forecast cashflows generated by each project In addition we applied a materiality of 1 million to interest and over a long-term period and by selecting key assumptions such as dividend income and fund expenses in the Consolidated Income the discount rate and macroeconomic assumptions such as Statement as we believe for these specific items misstatements of inflation, interest and tax rates.
The Directors received a report lesser amounts than the 17 million materiality as a whole could and opinion on the Investment Advisors valuation from an reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the independent third party valuation expert.
The estimates of longmembers of the Company in respect of these specific items.
term forecast cashflows and the selection of appropriate values for assumptions surrounding uncertain future events are key We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and judgements made by the Directors.
The risk is that inappropriate uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a cash flow assumptions and the selection of inappropriate values value in excess of 0.85 million, in addition to other audit for the key assumptions may result in a materially different misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted valuation of the unlisted investments.
78 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, we are required to single operating entity based on the aggregated set of financial report to you if, in our opinion: information for the Group.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total Group the Company has not kept proper accounting records: or revenue, Group profit before taxation and total Group assets.
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or Our assessment of materiality has informed our identification of we have not received all the information and explanations, which significant risks of material misstatement and the associated audit to the best of our knowledge and belief are necessary for the procedures performed in those areas as detailed above.
Whilst the audit process is designed to provide reasonable Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is Corporate Governance Statement on Pages 59 to 66 relating to the not guaranteed to do so.
Rather we plan the audit to determine the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the financial We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
This testing requires us to conduct significant depth of work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, income and Scope of report and responsibilities expense as well as devoting significant time of the most experienced The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons members of the audit team, in particular the Responsible Individual, other than the Companys members as a body to subjective areas of the accounting and reporting process.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and and, in respect of any further matters on which we have agreed to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable report, on terms we have agreed with the Company.
Our audit work has assurance that the financial statements are free from material been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this estimates made by the Board of Directors: and the overall report, or for the opinions we have formed.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement statements and to identify any information that is apparently set out on Page 55, the directors are responsible for the preparation materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an become aware of any apparent material misstatements or opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the UK Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under International Standards on Auditing [ISAs] UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired Steven D. Stormonth during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual For and on behalf of Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that KPMG Channel Islands Limited knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 20 May 2015 We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is: The maintenance and integrity of the HICL Infrastructure Company Limited website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, the financial statements or audit report since they were initially presented on business model and strategy: or the website.
the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
