Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HIGHBRIDGE MULTI-STRATEGY FUND LIMITED FORMERLY BLUECREST ALLBLUE FUND LIMITED Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: Highbridge Multi-Strategy Fund Limiteds the Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
What we have audited Highbridge Multi-Strategy Fund Limiteds financial statements comprise: Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2015 Statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Statement of changes in net assets attributable to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2015 Statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2015 Related notes 1 to 16 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of Valuation of investments: and material misstatement Existence and ownership of investments Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Materiality Overall materiality of 8.0m which represents 1% of net assets attributable to shareholders.
Page 45 v. 2.7 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below which are consistent with the risks we identified in the prior year as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Valuation of investments Our response comprised: We confirmed that there were 790,682,544, PY no matters identified during our comparative 774,718,912 audit work on valuation of - Updating our understanding of the processes adopted investments that we wanted to bring to the attention of the Refer to the Audit Committee by the Board and Report page 40 : Accounting management in respect of Audit Committee.
policies page 51 : and Note 7 investment valuation, of the Financial Statements including our understanding page 76 of the systems and controls implemented: At 31 December 2015, the Company was invested in - We agreed the valuation of AllBlue Limited and AllBlue the Companys investments Leveraged Feeder Limited the in the underlying funds to underlying funds which are the net asset values unquoted investments.
The published by the Company also holds an administrator of the investment in Blackrock ICS underlying funds GlobeOp Institutional Sterling as at 31 December 2015: Government Liquidity Fund the ICS Fund which is listed - We formed an independent on the London Stock Exchange.
view as to whether the fair The Companys investments value of the Companys are measured at fair value investments in the through profit or loss.
The fair underlying funds is value of the unquoted equivalent to the net asset investments was determined by value of the investee funds reference to the published NAV by obtaining post-year end of the underlying funds as at 31 valuation reports from December 2015.
Subsequently, GlobeOp and reviewing for on 4 January 2016, the significant pricing Companys shareholdings in the adjustments to the underlying funds were Companys creditor converted to creditor interests interests in the underlying as part of the process by which funds, and agreeing postthey are returning capital to year end redemption investors, and hence their fair proceeds received to value post-year end is redemption notices issued determined by reference to by GlobeOp: and valuation reports provided to the Company by their - We agreed the valuation of independent administrator.
the Companys investment The fair value of the ICS Fund in the ICS Fund to publically available pricing is based on the publicly available, quoted price.
The valuation of the Companys Page 46 v. 2.7 investments is a significant driver of the net asset value of the Company and the most significant component of the statement of financial position.
Management may seek to overstate the valuation of investments to maximise reported performance and net asset value per share.
Existence and ownership of Our approach comprised: We confirmed that there were investments 790,682,544, no matters identified during our audit work on valuation of PY comparative 774,718,912 - Updating our understanding of the processes adopted investments that we wanted to bring to the attention of the Refer to the Audit Committee by the Board and management including Audit Committee.
Report page 40 : Accounting policies page 51 : and Note 7 obtaining and reviewing the of the Financial Statements ISAE 3402 reports of page 64 GlobeOp and BlueCrest in respect of the existence Risk that investments presented and ownership of investments, including our in the Statement of Financial Position do not exist or the understanding of the systems and controls Company does not have the rights to cash flows derived implemented: and from them.
Failure to obtain good title exposes the - We obtained confirmations, Company to significant risk of as at 31 December 2015, of loss.
the Companys holdings both directly held and those held in a nominee capacity by the Companys administrator in the underlying funds and the ICS Fund, from their respective administrators and agreed them to the records of the Company.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
There have been no changes in the scope of our audit in the current year.
We performed an audit of the complete financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
Page 47 v. 2.7 We determined materiality for the Company to be 8.0 million 2014: 8.2 million, which is 1% 2014: 1% of net assets attributable to shareholders.
It was considered inappropriate to determine materiality based on Company profit before tax as the primary focus of the Company is the overall performance of investments held which includes a significant asset revaluation component.
In addition, profit is not a key metric reported upon by the Company.
We believe that net assets attributable to shareholders provides us with an appropriate basis for audit materiality as net asset value is a key published performance measure and is a key metric used by management in assessing and reporting on the overall performance of the Company.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and noted no factors leading us to amend materiality levels from those originally determined at the audit planning stage.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2014: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 6.0m 2014: 6.2m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to the investment strategy remaining consistent with our previous experience and limited identification of audit findings in previous periods.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.4m 2014: 0.4m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 35, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Page 48 v. 2.7 Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial We have no reporting and non-financial information in the annual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Guernsey Law 2008 exceptions proper accounting records have not been kept: or reporting to report.
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements the directors statement in relation to going concern on exceptions to report.
pages 34 and 34 and longer-term viability set out on pages 32 and 34. the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have We have reporting anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: nothing material to add or to the directors confirmation in the annual report that they draw have carried out a robust assessment of the principal attention to.
risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider Page 49 v. 2.7 that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Christopher James Matthews, FCA for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey, Channel Islands 29 April 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys information published on the Companys website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
