Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Audit Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc 1 Report on the financial statements Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion HSBC Holdings plcs HSBC Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Parent Company's affairs at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups and Parent Companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Performing the audit On behalf of  LLP PwC, it is my responsibility to form these opinions.
This was the first year that you have appointed PwC as HSBCs auditors, and I have therefore provided more information on how PwC prepared for the audit together with an explanation of the audit approach applied and details of the significant discussions on accounting issues I, and my colleagues, have had with the Group Audit Committee GAC.
Preparing to change auditors Before commencing audit work in September 2014, PwC member firms, their partners and staff took 12 months to ensure that we were independent of HSBC.
This involved ceasing commercial relationships and changing financial arrangements for our partners and more than 2,000 staff who work on the audit of HSBC and its subsidiaries worldwide.
During this period, members of my team took the opportunity to meet with HSBCs management team to understand the issues faced by the business, and to gather information which we required to plan our audit.
From September 2014 and throughout the 31 December 2014 year-end process, we worked alongside the former auditors, attending their key meetings with HSBC and understanding the complex or significant audit judgements which they made.
We also observed the GAC and Group Risk Committee meetings and met with the primary regulators of HSBC.
In September 2014, I chaired a two day meeting of the partners and staff from PwC member firms who undertake audits of the most significant HSBC subsidiaries.
This meeting ensured that we would have one approach to the audit globally, assisted in our determination of the most significant audit risks and provided an opportunity for those partners and staff to hear directly from HSBC management.
We also reviewed the working papers of the former auditors, to help familiarise ourselves with the controls on which they relied for the purposes of issuing their opinion, and to understand the evidence they obtained over key judgements.
How the audit approach was structured I structured the audit approach to reflect how HSBC is organised.
It incorporated four important aspects.
i Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level, having regard to both regions and HSBCs global businesses In addition to having partners coordinate the audit in each region, I appointed partners for each global business.
These global business partners met regularly with the relevant HSBC management to understand strategy and matters which arose throughout the year that could have impacted the financial reporting.
These partners are specialists in the nature of the relevant businesses and were best placed to design an appropriate audit approach for that part of HSBC.
They oversaw each PwC member firm involved in the audit of that global business and assisted me in my review of their work.
ii Audit work performed at global shared service centres A significant amount of HSBCs operational processes which are critical to financial reporting are undertaken in offshore shared service centres across 11 sites in five countries.
Working closely with me, a partner coordinated our audit work on shared service centres, building up an end to end picture of the key processes that supported material balances, classes of transactions and disclosures within the HSBC financial statements.
We then evaluated the effectiveness of controls over these processes and considered the implications for the remainder of our audit work.
1 HSBC Holdings plcs financial statements comprise the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2015, the consolidated and Parent Company income statements and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended, the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements for the year then ended: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended, and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 323 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Audit Report iii Audit work executed on individual legal entities We received opinions from PwC member firms which had been appointed as the external auditors of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC North America Holdings Inc, HSBC Mexico S. A. HSBC Bank Brasil S. A. Banco Multiplo, HSBC Vida e Previdncia Brasil S. A. HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse S. A. and HSBC Insurance Bermuda Limited.
I was in active dialogue throughout the year with the partners responsible for these audits: this included consideration of how they planned and performed their work.
I visited most of these subsidiaries since HSBCs decision to appoint PwC as auditor, as well as businesses in a further 7 countries.
I also attended meetings with management in each of these key subsidiaries at the year end.
The audits of these key subsidiaries relied upon work performed by PwC member firms in Germany, France, Turkey, Malta, China, India, Australia, Qatar, Oman, the UAE and Bahrain.
I considered how my subsidiary audit teams instructed and reviewed the work undertaken in these locations in order to ensure the quality and adequacy of the work.
Collectively, these teams completed procedures covering 81% of total assets, 77% of total operating income and 88% of profit before tax.
iv Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the Parent Company.
I ensured that appropriate further audit work was undertaken for HSBC as the Parent Company.
This work included auditing, for example, the consolidation of the Groups results, the preparation of the financial statements, certain disclosures within the Directors remuneration report, litigation provisions and exposures and managements entity level and oversight controls relevant to financial reporting.
In aggregate, these four areas provided me with the evidence required to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC.
The purpose and scope of my audit An audit has an important role in providing confidence in the financial statements that are provided by companies to their members.
The audit opinion does not provide assurance over any particular number or disclosure, but over the financial statements taken as a whole.
It is the Directors responsibility to prepare the financial statements and to be satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
These responsibilities have been recognised on behalf of the Board of Directors on page 322.
The scope of an audit is sometimes not fully understood.
I believe that it is important that you understand the scope in order to understand the assurance that my opinion provides.
My responsibility is to undertake my work and express my opinion in accordance with applicable law and the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland as issued by the Financial Reporting Council of the United Kingdom.
These standards also require me to comply with the APBs Ethical Standards for auditors.
A description of the scope of an audit is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk auditscopeukprivate: I recommend that you read this description carefully.
It is also important that you understand the inherent limitations of the audit which are disclosed in the description, for example the possibility that an approach based upon sampling and other audit techniques may not identify all issues.
In order for me to perform my work, I had regard to the concept of materiality.
I have determined materiality as follows: Overall Group materiality $1,050m.
How I determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax excluding the debt valuation adjustment and non-qualifying hedges.
Why I believe this is appropriate Given the geographically dispersed nature of HSBC and the diversity of its banking activities, I believe a standard benchmark of 5% of adjusted profit before tax is an appropriate quantitative indicator of materiality, although of course an item could also be material for qualitative reasons.
I selected adjusted profit before tax, because as discussed on page 48, management believes it best reflects the performance of HSBC.
I excluded the debt valuation adjustment and non-qualifying hedges as they are recurring items.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 324 When planning the audit, I considered if multiple errors may exist which, when aggregated, could exceed $1,050m.
In order to reduce the risk of multiple errors which could aggregate to this amount I used a lower level of materiality, known as performance materiality, of $788m to identify the individual balances, classes of transactions and disclosures that were subject to audit.
I asked each of the partners reporting to me on the subsidiaries of HSBC to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size of the operations they audited.
These ranged from $67m HSBC Mexico S. A. to $840m The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Where the audit identified some items that were not reflected appropriately in the audited financial information, I considered these items carefully to assess if they were individually or in aggregate material.
I reported any such items which exceeded $50m to the GAC, who were responsible for deciding whether adjustments should be made to the financial statements in respect of those items.
The Directors have concluded that all items which remained unadjusted were not material to the financial statements, either individually or in aggregate.
Matters discussed with the GAC I attended each of the seven GAC meetings held during the year.
Part of each meeting involved a discussion with me without management present.
I also met with members of the Committee on an ad hoc basis.
During these various conversations we discussed my observations on a variety of accounting matters, and initial observations on controls over financial reporting.
In November 2014, the Committee held a special meeting to understand and challenge the audit plan.
The plan included the matters which I considered presented the highest risk to the audit and other information on our audit approach such as our approach to the audit of journals, interest income and financial instrument valuation, and where the latest technology would be used to obtain better quality audit evidence.
The areas of highest risk to the audit and where I focused most effort and resource, were: Access to technology applications and data Carrying value of goodwill Application of hedge accounting Impairment of loans and advances Litigation and conduct Investment in Bank of Communications Co. Ltd BoCom Impact of the deferred prosecution agreement DPA Recoverability of deferred tax assets.
To help you understand their impact on the audit, I have listed them in order of decreasing audit effort.
Some of them are common with other international banks, and some are specific to HSBC.
I have included at the end of this report an explanation of each item, why it was discussed and how the audit approach was tailored to address the concerns.
Going concern The Directors have made a statement on page 277 regarding going concern.
This statement is based on their belief that the Group and Parent Company intend to, and have sufficient resources to remain in business for 12 months from the date of this report.
I am required to review this statement, and in doing so I have considered HSBCs budgets, cash flows, capital plan and stress tests.
I have nothing to report as a result of my review.
I also have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the statement.
Other reporting The Annual Report and Accounts also contains a considerable amount of other information that is required by various regulators or standard setters.
In respect of this information my responsibilities and my reporting are set out in the table below.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 325 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Audit Report Appendix Area of the Annual Report and Accounts My responsibility My reporting 2015 Directors Remuneration Report on pages 285 to 321 Those parts of which are clearly marked as Consider whether the information is In my opinion, this information has been audited.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Consider whether certain other disclosures The other required disclosures have specified by the Companies Act have been been made.
Other areas Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Consider whether they are consistent with In my opinion, the information in these the audited financial statements.
reports is consistent with the audited financial statements.
Viability statement on page 277 which Review the statement in the light of the I have nothing material to draw considers the longer term sustainability of the knowledge gathered during the audit.
attention to or to add to the statement.
Directors confirmation of their robust Review the confirmation and description in I have nothing material to draw assessment of principal risks, and disclosures the light of the knowledge gathered during attention to or to add to the describing those risks and how they are the audit.
managed or mitigated on page 278.
Consider whether it deals appropriately No exceptions to report.
with those matters that I reported to the GAC.
Directors statement on page 322 that they Consider whether any information found No disagreements to report.
consider the HSBC Annual Report and Accounts during the course of the audit would cause 2015, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and me to disagree.
understandable and provides the information necessary for you to assess HSBCs performance, business model and strategy.
Corporate governance report on pages 249 to Review the remaining 10 provisions of the Nothing to report following our review.
UK Corporate Governance Code specified 284. for our review by the UK Listing Rules.
All other information in the Annual Report aside Consider whether it is materially No exceptions to report.
from the audited financial statements.
inconsistent or materially incorrect based on the knowledge gained in my audit, or otherwise misleading.
Consider whether it is materially inconsistent with the audited financial statements.
In addition, I am required to report to you if: I have not received all of the information and explanations required for my audit: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company: Returns adequate for my audit have not been received from branches not visited by PwC: The Parent Company financial statements and the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report do not agree with the accounting records and returns.
I have no exceptions to report as a result of any of these responsibilities.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for you, the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006, and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come except where expressly agreed by our prior written consent.
Richard Oldfield Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 22 February 2016 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 326
