Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Governance and directors report Independent auditors report to the members of ICAP plc Report on the financial statements Overall Group materiality: 11.45 Our opinion million which represents 5% of profit In our opinion: before tax, acquisition and disposal Materiality costs and exceptional items.
ICAP plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view We conducted a full scope audit across of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at individually financially significant 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and business reporting units.
Additional Audit scope the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: business reporting units were selected to increase the level of audit evidence the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in for each account balance, on which accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards a combination of controls and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Areas of substantive tests of detail was focus the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in undertaken.
Business reporting units accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as that are not subject to specific audit applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act procedures are still subject to audit 2006: and work on entity level controls and Group level analytical review procedures over the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with their financial information.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The areas of focus for our audit to which we allocated the greatest amount of our What we have audited resources and effort were: ICAP plcs financial statements comprise: presentation and disclosure of the consolidated and Company balance sheet as at exceptional items: 31 March 2015: goodwill impairment assessment: and the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: recognition and presentation of revenue.
the consolidated and Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards for the year then ended: on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the basis of preparation: and We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, identified as audited.
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the to fraud.
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. identified as areas of focus in the table on page 92 We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order Our audit approach to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any Overview comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read The judgements that have the most effect on the nature, extent in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by and timing of our audit procedures materiality, scoping and the our audit.
key areas of audit focus are summarised here and explained in detail below.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 91 Governance and directors report Independent auditors report to the members of ICAP plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Presentation and disclosure of exceptional items Refer to page 61 Audit Committee report to page 103 basis of preparation We understood managements basis for determining whether or not expenses and to note 4 exceptional items.
incurred in connection with each element of the cost reduction plan fell within the classification of exceptional items as described in the accounting policy.
Assessment of the Groups performance generally focuses on trading profit, being We then used our understanding of the nature of the action being taken and operating profit before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
This is our broader industry knowledge to challenge this basis.
the third consecutive year that ICAP has incurred and reported exceptional costs, although the nature of these costs has varied from year to year.
We selected a sample of expenses that had been identified as exceptional items and, based on our knowledge of the Groups cost reduction plans and its During the year ICAP took a number of actions intended to bring significant day to day operations, formed our own judgement as to whether they were cost reductions and communicated these plans to shareholders.
The expenses appropriately included in exceptional items.
incurred during the year as a result of these actions varied, with the resultant risk that the expenses recognised as exceptional may not meet the criteria We found no material exceptions in these tests.
to be classified as such as set out in the accounting policy on page 106.
We examined the Groups disclosures in respect of exceptional items considering We focused on the risk that these costs could be incorrectly classified between the correlation between the narrative provided and the underlying expenses the columns of the financial statements, with an impact on the disclosed incurred and agreed that this appropriately reflected the nature of the underlying business performance.
Goodwill impairment assessment Refer to page 61 Audit Committee report and to note 14 intangible assets We tested the directors future cash flow forecasts by comparing them to the arising on consolidation.
We compared the current year results with the equivalent figures included in the prior year forecast to test historical budgeting We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance 877m, and accuracy, which provided support for the effectiveness of the budgeting process because the directors assessment of the carrying value of the Groups cash undertaken by management.
generating units CGUs involves judgements about the future results of the business and the discount rate applied to the future cash flow forecasts.
We challenged the directors key assumptions for long-term growth rates by comparing rates used to past results and to economic and industry forecasts.
The value in use method was used to assess the recoverable amount of each We also challenged the discount rate by independently recalculating the Groups CGU and no impairment charge was recognised during the period.
cost of capital, which was consistent with the discount rate used.
We performed sensitivity analyses over the key assumptions of the cash flow forecast.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in the key assumptions arising.
We paid particular attention to the Global Broking business due to its performance being impacted by cyclical factors including low interest rates and foreign exchange volatility, including Shipping given the proposed disposal.
The management restructuring programme also predominantly focused on the Global Broking division.
We also evaluated the adequacy of disclosures made in Note 14 to the Group financial statements and determined that they are consistent with the requirements of accounting standards.
Recognition and presentation of revenue Refer to note 1 segmental information.
We evaluated and tested the relevant IT and manual internal controls over the accuracy and timing of commissions and fees recognised in the financial We focused on the completeness, accuracy and timing of the recognition and statements.
Where control issues were identified, we were able to rely on the presentation in the income statement of: testing of compensating controls or performed additional tests of detail.
We also commissions from the Groups Global Broking division including agency tested the following: and matched principal businesses: the reconciliations between the revenue systems used by the Group and brokerage and access fees from its Electronic Markets division: and its financial ledgers and did not identify any unusual or long-standing fees from the provision of Post Trade Risk and Information.
reconciling items: Given the high volume of transactions in Global Broking and Electronic Markets, revenue recognised by agreeing to cash received or accounts receivable robust internal controls over trade recording and settlement are important to as appropriate.
We tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to ensure the completeness and accuracy of revenues.
identify unusual or irregular items.
This did not identify any items which could not be substantiated or were recognised in the wrong accounting periods: For the agency business, the risk of revenue misstatement increases when amounts become past due, given that the invoices are raised at the end of each month in the timing of revenue recognition, checking the necessary contractual arrears and, for the matched principal business, when trades fail to settle within the obligations had been fulfilled: and standard market settlement period two to three business days.
the recoverability of overdue year end account receivables on a sample Access fees in Electronic Markets and revenue from Post Trade Risk and basis by obtaining invoices to validate the underlying revenue and obtaining Information are recognised on an accruals basis to match the provision of the an understanding for the aged item including agreeing to subsequent cash service which includes estimation with regard to stage of completion.
No exceptions were noted in our testing.
92 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group reports its operating results and financial position along three business lines, being Electronic Markets, Post Trade Risk and Information and Global Broking.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of these business lines, which comprise 242 separate legal entities located in 32 countries, and the Groups centralised functions.
We identified 15 reporting units across the Global Broking and Electronic Markets business lines and centralised functions that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
As part of our planning procedures, the Group engagement team visited the UK and US component teams the two most significant countries in the Group.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 13 reporting units, which included the three largest entities in the Post Trade Risk and Information segment, located in Sweden, Tel Aviv and Singapore.
In aggregate, our audit procedures accounted for: Proportion of Proportion of Components total income total assets Audit of the complete financial information of full scope components and adjusting items 51% 83% Specific audit procedures for certain financial line items of the other two components 27% 15% Out of scope 22% 2% Total 100% 100% Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, and consistent with last year, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 11.45 million 2013 14 13.6 million.
Overall Group materiality 5% of profit before tax, acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
How we determined it We based materiality on profit before tax, acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
The removal of these items Rationale for mitigates undue volatility in determining our materiality.
benchmark applied We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 2013 14 500,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 69, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 93 Governance and directors report Independent auditors report to the members of ICAP plc continued ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 71, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of We have no exceptions to report arising the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report from this responsibility.
taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 60 and 61, as required by provision C. 3.8 of We have no exceptions to report arising the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address from this responsibility.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit and explanations received Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: set out on page 71, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that we have not received all the information and explanations we they give a true and fair view.
require for our audit: or Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing branches not visited by us: or Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of accounting records and returns.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is Directors remuneration shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to What an audit of financial statements involves be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Companies Act 2006. disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Other Companies Act 2006 reporting assurance that the financial statements are free from material Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified assessment of: by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and these responsibilities.
the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Corporate governance statement and adequately disclosed: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys the directors: and compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
94 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Rowland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 19 May 2015 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 95
