INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law Our opinion and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards In our opinion: the Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance IG Group Holdings plcs Group Financial Statements with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. and the Company Financial Statements the Financial Our audit approach Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Overview Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 May 2015 and We present below an overview of our audit approach, the of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys details of which are considered within our audit report: cash flows for the year then ended: Overall Group materiality: The Group Financial Statements have been properly 8.5million which represents prepared in accordance with International Financial 5% of profit before tax.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Materiality The majority of the audit work European Union: was performed by the Group audit team in London.
The Company Financial Statements have been properly Specific procedures were Audit scope prepared in accordance with International Financial carried out by overseas teams where necessary.
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Risk of management override of internal controls, Areas of Companies Act 2006: and focus incorporating Information Technology.
The Financial Statements have been prepared in Counterparty credit risk.
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus What we have audited We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
IG Group Holdings plcs Financial Statements comprise: We designed our audit by determining materiality and The Group and Company Statements of Financial Position assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial as at 31 May 2015: Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors The Group income Statement and the Group statement of made subjective judgements, for example in respect of comprehensive income for the year then ended: significant accounting estimates that involved making The Group and Company Cash Flow Statements for the assumptions and considering future events that are inherently year then ended: uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the The Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity risk of management override of internal controls, including for the year then ended: and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due The notes to the Financial Statements, which include to fraud.
a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
| 106 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of management override of internal controls, incorporating We tested the fraud risk assessment performed by management and Information Technology the prevention and detection controls in place in the Group with no exceptions noted from our testing.
We tested the appropriateness International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK and authorisation of journal entries that we identified as unusual and & Ireland require that we consider this as a significant risk as no issues arose from this work.
management is in a unique position to perpetrate fraud because of their ability to manipulate accounting records and prepare fraudulent We examined significant one-off transactions and considered Financial Statements by overriding controls that otherwise appear to their accounting treatment with no significant exceptions arising.
We also incorporated an element of unpredictability into our testingapproach.
Although management is responsible for safeguarding the assets of the business, we planned our audit so that we had a reasonable We understood and tested key controls in place over financial expectation of detecting material misstatements to the Financial information.
Specifically, in relation to information technology, we Statements and accounting records.
performed testing over the IT general controls in Universe, including access rights.
Additionally we tested the controls mitigating the risks Specifically in relation to Information Technology, the risk relates to relating to super-user access including controls that would identify super user access to the Universe, the main client ledger system, by unexpected changes to data which could impact the Financial certain individuals in order to perform their role.
Those individuals Statements and reconciliations of Universe reports to external third have an opportunity to commit and conceal fraud.
party sources including broker and bank reconciliations.
We noted no significant issues arising.
Counterparty credit risk We inspected the Groups credit policy and tested the effectiveness of the ongoing monitoring which includes ensuring balances held The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk when placing cash with counterparties are within the levels approved by the Executive with banks and brokers and individual client counterparty credit risk.
Risk Committee and checking for changes in the short term and long term credit worthiness of institutional counterparties.
No significant The removal of the link of the Swiss franc to the euro in January were identified through this work.
resulted in significant provision for bad debts relating to individual clients for the Group at the year end.
We tested on a sample basis the credit worthiness of institutional counterparties to external rating agency reports.
No exceptions were noted from this work.
We performed controls and substantive testing over cash and .
We read and understood the bad debt provisioning policies and checked that these were consistent with prior year.
Where this was not the case, we understood the rationale for any change and considered whether new methodologies are appropriate.
We reperformed the calculation of the provision to calculate the expected recovery and value within the Financial Statements, and no issues were noted in the testing.
We understood the basis and assumptions used by management for the provisioning of the Swiss franc exposures.
We considered the adequacy of this provision and noted no significant issues from ourtesting.
are primarily maintained in the UK.
As a result, the majority How we tailored the audit scope of the audit work was performed by the Group audit team We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we in London, with certain, specific procedures carried out by performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on overseas PwC engagement teams where necessary.
This work the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the was limited to payroll procedures in Australia and Singapore.
geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group consists of a UK holding Company with a number of subsidiary entities and branches containing the operating businesses of both the UK and overseas territories.
The accounting records for both the UK and overseas businesses | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 107 Materiality OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING The scope of our audit was influenced by our application Consistency of other information of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for Companies Act 2006 opinion materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, and the Directors Report for the financial year for which timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the Financial Financial Statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Based on our professional judgement, we determined Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no Overall Group materiality 8.5 million 2014: 9.7 million.
exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information report arising from How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
in the audited Financial Statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based Rationale for benchmark Consistent with last year, we applied on, or materially inconsistent with, our applied this benchmark, a generally accepted knowledge of the Group and Company audit practice, in the absence acquired in the course of performing our of indicators that an alternative audit: or benchmark would be appropriate.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report the statement given by the directors on page We have no to them misstatements identified during our audit above 105, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of exceptions to 420,000 2014: 450,000 as well as misstatements below the UK Corporate Governance Code the report arising from Code, that they consider the Annual Report this responsibility.
that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and qualitative reasons.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups Going concern and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the our knowledge of the Group and Company Directors Statement, set out on page 104, in relation to acquired in the course of performing ouraudit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the section of the Annual Report on page We have no 96, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the exceptions to As noted in the Directors Statement, the directors have report arising from Code, describing the work of the Audit concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Financial Committee does not appropriately address this responsibility.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, Adequacy of accounting records and information and and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one explanations received year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
As Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of you if, in our opinion: the going concern basis is appropriate.
We have not received all the information and explanations However, because not all future events or conditions can we require for our audit be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been going concern.
received from branches not visited by us The Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
| 108 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration What an audit of Financial Statements involves Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts opinion and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed: remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
made by the directors Corporate governance statement The overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the directors judgements against available evidence, forming Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of Our responsibilities and those of the directors controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Responsibilities set out on page 105, the directors are information in the Annual Report to identify material responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Those standards require us to comply with become aware of any apparent material misstatements or the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance Darren Ketteringham Senior Statutory Auditor with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for for and on behalf of  LLP no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other London person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it 21 July 2015 may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 109
