CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT AUDITORS REPORT The financial statements comprise the We have nothing material to add or draw OPINION ON THE PARENT Consolidated Income Statement, the attention to in relation to: COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated and Parent Company AND THE GROUP FINANCIAL The directors confirmation on page Statements of Comprehensive Income, STATEMENTS THE FINANCIAL 105 that they have carried out a robust the Consolidated and Parent Company assessment of the principal risks facing the STATEMENTS OF INTERMEDIATE Statements of Financial Position, the Group, including those that would threaten CAPITAL GROUP PLC Consolidated and Parent Company its business model, future performance, Statements of Cash Flow and the solvency or liquidity: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Consolidated and Parent Company REPORT TO THE MEMBERS The disclosures on pages 3643 that Statements of Changes in Equity and the OF INTERMEDIATE CAPITAL describe those risks and explain how they related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting are being managed or mitigated: GROUP PLC framework that has been applied in their The directors statement in note 3 to the preparation is applicable law and IFRSs In our opinion: as adopted by the European Union and, financial statements about whether they The financial statements give a true and considered it appropriate to adopt the as regards the parent company financial fair view of the state of the groups and of going concern basis of accounting in statements, as applied in accordance with the parent companys affairs as at 31 March preparing them, and their identification of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
2015 and of the groups profit for the year any material uncertainties to the Groups then ended: GOING CONCERN AND THE ability to continue to do so over a period The group financial statements have DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE of at least twelve months from the date been properly prepared in accordance PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD of approval of the financial statements.
with International Financial Reporting THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR We agreed with the directors adoption Standards IFRSs as adopted by the LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP of the going concern basis of accounting European Union: As required by the Listing Rules we have and we did not identify any such material reviewed the directors statement contained uncertainties: and The parent company financial statements within the Corporate Governance Statements have been properly prepared in The directors explanation on page 36 as that the Group is a going concern.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by to how they have assessed the prospects the European Union and as applied in As disclosed in the Governance Report, of the Group, over what period they have accordance with the provisions of the the Group has adopted the provisions of done so and why they consider that period Companies Act 2006: and the 2014 UK Corporate Governance code to be appropriate, and their statement relating to principal risks that would threaten The financial statements have been as to whether they have a reasonable the solvency or liquidity of the Group.
prepared in accordance with the expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its requirements of the Companies Act liabilities as they fall due over the period 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, the directors statement in note 3 and page 36 is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant findings in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RISK RESPONDED TO THE RISK FINDINGS VALUATION OF UNQUOTED EQUITIES, COLLATERALISED LOAN OBLIGATIONS CLOS AND WARRANTS Unquoted equities, CLOs and warrants We assessed the Groups valuation methodology and Unquoted equities represented 755million 20% of Group tested the operating effectiveness of related controls We determined the valuation methodology net assets at 31 March 2015.
See note 5 to determine that appropriate oversight from senior of the unquoted equities to be appropriate to the financial statements.
investment executives had been exercised within the and are satisfied that the assumptions that valuations process.
We also engaged with our internal fair management have made are appropriate and Valuing unquoted equities, CLOs and value specialists to discuss the valuation methodology that the valuation at year end is acceptable.
warrants requires management to make and challenge its appropriateness.
a number of judgements, including CLOs As a result of our independent testing valuation methodology and the discount We tested a sample of unquoted equities and warrants or premium applied to unquoted equities by considering and challenging the appropriateness performed over the valuation of the loan tranches of two CLOs, we noted that ICG used and the prepayment rate or default of the underlying assumptions, specifically including rates applied to CLOs.
As valuations discount rates and comparable companies.
We verified purchase price plus accrued income to fair value the tranches, which is not the same as are sensitive to these judgments, the inputs to the valuations specifically management there is a risk that small changes in key information and earnings multiples by agreeing these to fair value.
The results of our fair value testing for these CLO tranches fell outside a tolerable assumptions can have a significant underlying supporting documentation and testing their impact on fair value and therefore arithmetical accuracy.
We assessed the reasonableness threshold of 5%.
Based on these results, we of management estimates in previous valuations by believed the CLOs were misstated.
performing a retrospective review of valuations based communicating these errors to management, The valuation techniques and inputs, on recent exits.
Any valuation differences greater than they fair valued the loan tranches using as well as the significant unobservable 5% were investigated.
their cash flow model to determine the CLO inputs are disclosed in note 5 to the tranche prices.
Management agreed to post financial statements.
For a sample of CLOs, we recalculated the fair value with the correction of the misstatement resulting in reference to an independent third party cash flow model.
a decrease of the CLO balance by 504,000.
The significant assumptions around the generation We are now satisfied that the valuation of of cash flows from the underlying loan portfolio CLOs at year end is acceptable.
were challenged: specifically: the CPR Constant or Conditional Prepayment Rate, the CDR Conditional Warrants Default Rate, the severity on defaulted loans and We determined the valuation methodology of the interest margin on reinvestment amounts.
These the warrants to be appropriate and are satisfied assumptions were obtained from an independent source.
that the valuation at year end is acceptable.
106 107 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RISK RESPONDED TO THE RISK FINDINGS IMPAIRMENT OF LOANS AND INVESTMENTS The Groups impairment charge We tested the design and implementation of key controls We are satisfied that the impairment events represented 53.5million for the year around impairments.
For a sample of impairments, we occurred in the current financial year and with ending 31 March 2015.
See note 5 to the challenged management assumptions relating to the managements decision to impair these assets.
timing and recognition of the impairment events and We have found the judgements management charges and corroborated them to underlying data: The identification of impairment events have made in determining the quantum of such as restructured loan agreements.
We reviewed and the determination of the impairment the cash flows, which impact the impairment the nature and timing of the sampled impairment event charge require the application of charge, to be appropriate.
In testing the to assess whether it occurred during the period.
For significant judgment by management, completeness of impairments we did not our sample chosen, we assessed the rationale for the in particular the timing and quantum of identify any impairment events which quantum of the impairment charge and recalculated the future cash flows.
There is a risk that management had not identified.
management record an impairment event that did not occur, or that they fail We assessed the completeness of impairments for loans to identify an impairment event and the we deemed at high risk of impairment by reviewing impairment charge reported is therefore independent information, such as publicly available incomplete.
information and investee financial reports for potential impairment triggers.
Where changes to repayment dates The Groups impairment policy is negatively impacted the carrying value of assets, we disclosed in note 3 to the financial challenged management as to whether this indicated statements.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Management fees and interest income We tested the design and implementation of key controls We determined the accounting for represented 89million 21% of the around the revenue cycle.
For a sample of funds we management fee income and interest Groups revenue and 184million 43% tested management fees by recalculating the fees income to be acceptable.
of the Groups revenue respectively for recorded with reference to the contractual arrangements the year ending 31 March 2015.
See note and the assets under management per third party 8 to the financial statements.
We also agreed the receipt of the management fees to bank statements.
There is a risk that there are errors in the amounts of the management fees For interest income, we tested the integrity of the reported due to the complexity of some calculations by re-performing a sample of interest income of the calculations and the extent of calculations and compared these to managements manual input into the process.
We also performed analytical procedures to significant management judgements assess the completeness of interest income.
We assessed relating to the quantum and timing of the reasonableness of managements judgement cash flows in measuring the loan value regarding changes in instrument repayment dates and may not be consistent with recently amounts through our testing of loans see impairment available data and as a result interest of loans and investments above.
income may be calculated incorrectly.
The Groups revenue accounting policy is disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
APPLICATION OF IFRS 10 IFRS 10 became effective on 1 April 2014 We tested the design and implementation of key controls Overall, we have found managements and as disclosed in note 2 to the financial around the application of IFRS 10 and we challenged the judgements to be acceptable and have noted statements the impact of this new significant judgements that management have exercised that the significant judgements have been accounting standard has had a significant in determining whether the Group controls portfolio appropriately disclosed in note 31 and 32 impact on determining the entities which companies, funds, CLOs and other entities.
We reviewed to the financial statements.
are required to be consolidated within managements analysis of the impact of IFRS 10 on the Groups financial statements.
portfolio company interests, funds and CLOs and we performed a detailed analysis of any equity interests There is a risk that management have not in CLOs, funds and portfolio companies greater than fully considered the impact of this new 15%.
We reviewed legal documents to support any accounting standard which could result key judgments management have made in determining in the consolidated financial statements whether they control or have significant influence not being prepared in accordance with over an investee e. g. power over relevant activities.
An error in judgement can have We have tested the consolidation process to significant consequences on the primary financial statements and the disclosures assess whether the conclusions reached have been appropriately applied in the preparation within the financial statements.
of the consolidated financial statements and we have assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in note 31 and 32 to the financial statements.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS Last year our report included two other We have changed the approach from 2014 Specified audit procedures were risks which are not included in our report so that the determination of materiality performed on another three non-significant this year: Accounting Treatment for new, procedures we perform around the key components, to address the risk of material restructured or refinanced complex FMC balances align more closely with other misstatement in valuations.
The extent of investment instruments new investments comparable listed fund managers.
our testing was based on our assessment are typically made in funds and restructuring of the risks of material misstatement and of We agreed with the Audit Committee that and refinancing are becoming less common the materiality of the groups operations we would report to the Committee all as the legacy investments are exited, within the components.
The eleven full audit differences in excess of 288,000 and the recognition and measurement scope components listed above represent 2014: 240,000 for all items except of corporation tax accruals previously the most significant subsidiaries of the FMC management fee income and the unresolved tax positions were agreed with group, and account for approximately FMC administrative expense revenue HMRC during the year, as detailed in note 7 87% of the groups total assets and 96% streams.
For these balances we report all to the financial statements.
of the groups profit before tax, as losses misstatements above 88,000.
We also before tax were incurred in insignificant The description of risks above should be report differences below these thresholds components.
They were also selected to read in conjunction with the significant that, in our view warranted reporting provide an appropriate basis for undertaking issues considered by the Audit Committee on qualitative grounds.
In addition, we audit work to address the risks of material discussed on pages 62 to 65. also report to the Audit Committee on misstatement identified above.
Our audit disclosure matters that we identified when Our audit procedures relating to these work at the components was executed assessing the overall presentation of the matters were designed in the context of our at levels of materiality applicable to each financial statements.
audit of the financial statements as a whole, individual entity which were lower than and not to express an opinion on individual group materiality.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT At the parent entity level we also tested the financial statements is not modified with Our group audit was scoped by obtaining the consolidation process and carried respect to any of the risks described above, an understanding of the group and its out analytical procedures to confirm our and we do not express an opinion on these environment, including group-wide conclusion that there were no significant individual matters.
controls, and assessing the risks of material risks of material misstatement of the misstatement at the group level.
Based on aggregated financial information of the OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY that assessment, we focused our group remaining components not subject to audit We define materiality as the magnitude of audit scope on the audit work associated or audit of specified account balances.
misstatement in the financial statements with eleven significant components subject that makes it probable that the economic The group engagement team is responsible to full scope audits for the year ended decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable for auditing the significant components, 31 March 2015. person would be changed or influenced.
so the local teams are briefed as part of We use materiality both in planning the the group audit team briefings, and the SIGNIFICANT COMPONENTS scope of our audit work and in evaluating documentation and findings is reviewed the results of our work.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC by the group engagement team.
We determined materiality for the group to Intermediate Capital Investments Ltd OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS be 14.4million 2014: 12million, which is ICG FMC Ltd PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES approximately 1% of Net Assets.
ACT 2006 Intermediate Capital Managers Ltd In the current year a lower materiality In our opinion: threshold of 4.4million has been applied ICG Alternative Investment Limited The part of the Directors Remuneration to the Fund Management Company Report to be audited has been properly Intermediate Finance II PLC FMC management fee income and prepared in accordance with the FMC administrative expense account US CLO 2014-1 Ltd Companies Act 2006: and balances, transactions and disclosures.
US CLO 2014-2 Ltd Lower materiality has been based on 5% The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for of normalised profit before tax.
We used US CLO 2014-3 Ltd the financial year for which the financial normalised profit before tax to determine St Pauls CLO II-Limited materiality to exclude the volatility arising statements are prepared is consistent from impairments and capital gains, which with the financial statements.
St Pauls CLO III-Limited cause significant year on year fluctuations.
108 109 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE Our duty to read other This report is made solely to the companys REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION information in the Annual Report members, as a body, in accordance with Under International Standards on Auditing Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Adequacy of explanations received and UK and Ireland, we are required to report 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken accounting records to you if, in our opinion, information in the so that we might state to the companys Under the Companies Act 2006 we are annual report is: members those matters we are required required to report to you if, in our opinion: to state to them in an auditors report and Materially inconsistent with the information We have not received all the information for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in the audited financial statements: or and explanations we require for our audit: permitted by law, we do not accept or or Apparently materially incorrect based assume responsibility to anyone other than on, or materially inconsistent with, our Adequate accounting records have not the company and the companys members knowledge of the group acquired in the been kept by the parent company, or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, course of performing our audit: or returns adequate for our audit have not or for the opinions we have formed.
been received from branches not visited Otherwise misleading.
by us: or SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF In particular, we are required to THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The parent company financial statements consider whether we have identified any An audit involves obtaining evidence about are not in agreement with the accounting inconsistencies between our knowledge the amounts and disclosures in the financial records and returns.
acquired during the audit and the statements sufficient to give reasonable directors statement that they consider We have nothing to report in respect assurance that the financial statements are the annual report is fair, balanced and of these matters.
free from material misstatement, whether understandable and whether the annual Directors remuneration caused by fraud or error.
This includes an report appropriately discloses those Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also assessment of: whether the accounting matters that we communicated to the audit required to report if in our opinion certain policies are appropriate to the groups committee which we consider should have disclosures of directors remuneration have and the parent companys circumstances been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not been made or the part of the Directors and have been consistently applied and not identified any such inconsistencies or Remuneration Report to be audited is not in adequately disclosed: the reasonableness misleading statements.
agreement with the accounting records and of significant accounting estimates made by returns.
We have nothing to report arising the directors: and the overall presentation of RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES from these matters.
In addition, we read OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR all the financial and non-financial information Corporate Governance Statement As explained more fully in the Directors in the annual report to identify material Responsibilities Statement, the directors Under the Listing Rules we are also inconsistencies with the audited financial required to review the part of the Corporate are responsible for the preparation of statements and to identify any information Governance Statement relating to the the financial statements and for being that is apparently materially incorrect based companys compliance with ten provisions satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
on, or materially inconsistent with, the Our responsibility is to audit and express of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of We have nothing to report arising from an opinion on the financial statements performing the audit.
If we become aware our review.
in accordance with applicable law and of any apparent material misstatements or International Standards on Auditing UK inconsistencies we consider the implications and Ireland.
Those standards require us to for our report.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, Calum Thomson understood and applied.
Our quality Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf controls and systems include our dedicated of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and professional standards review team and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom independent partner reviews.
21 May 2015 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS Consolidated income statement 112 Consolidated and parent company statements of comprehensive income 113 Consolidated and parent company statements of financial position 114 Consolidated and parent company statements of cash flow 115 Consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity 116 Notes to the accounts 118 110 111
