90 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of International Personal Finance plc Opinion on Financial Statements of International Personal the disclosures on pages 38-43 that describe those risks and explain Finance plc how they are being managed or mitigated: In our opinion: the directors statement in the Financial Review on page 37 about the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in Financial Statements: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the directors explanation on page 43 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet Companies Act 2006: and its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance necessary qualifications or assumptions.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
The Financial Statements comprise the consolidated income However, because not all future events or conditions can be statement, statements of comprehensive income, balance sheets, predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups statements of changes in equity, cash flow statements, accounting ability to continue as a going concern.
policies and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable Independence law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group to in those standards.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis Our assessment of risks of material misstatement of accounting contained within the Financial Review on page 37 of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below the Financial Statements and the directors statement on the longerare those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of on page 43. the engagement team.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 43 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: Financial Statements Financial Statements International Personal Finance plc 90 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 91 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 to the members of International Personal Finance plc Opinion on Financial Statements of International Personal the disclosures on pages 38-43 that describe those risks and explain Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Finance plc how they are being managed or mitigated: Impairment of receivables In our opinion: Determining impairment provisions against customer receivables is We tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the provisioning the directors statement in the Financial Review on page 37 about judgemental, requiring an estimate to be made of the likely loss within process, including using IT specialists within the audit team to test the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern the lending portfolios.
the key IT controls over the systems in which the source customer Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any receivable data is maintained.
Where necessary, we also tested the 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over We have identified the key risk as being the estimation of future completeness and accuracy of information used by management to a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the customer default rates for customers in arrears, and hence expected the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in operate key lending controls, by extraction of source data from the Financial Statements: future cash flows for each portfolio.
In particular, there is a risk that the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards core lending systems and independent recalculation of the relevant management information used to make this judgement is either IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the directors explanation on page 43 as to how they have information.
We also involved credit risk specialists to test the process incomplete or inaccurate, that the debt receivables are incorrectly assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have and controls for implementing new impairment curves.
the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly categorised in terms of their arrears status, or that the cash forecasting done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European curves used do not appropriately predict actual future cash flows.
We evaluated the appropriateness of managements key their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the assumptions used in the impairment calculations for customer that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk Committee on page Companies Act 2006: and receivables, including the estimation of customer default rates and its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 54 and within the key assumptions and estimates on page 105.
Please expected future cash flows for each portfolio.
This involved assessing including any related disclosures drawing attention to any the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance also see note 21 for further information.
managements tests of historical forecasting accuracy, and renecessary qualifications or assumptions.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards performing a sample of these tests using independent extracts the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of of customer receivable collections data.
We also challenged the accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
The Financial Statements comprise the consolidated income appropriateness of historical data used to predict future collections However, because not all future events or conditions can be statement, statements of comprehensive income, balance sheets, performance by reference to internal and external factors affecting predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups statements of changes in equity, cash flow statements, accounting the business.
ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial reporting In addition, we recalculated a sample of portfolio carrying values in framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable Independence accordance with the approved impairment provisioning policy and law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting tested the accuracy of the arrears status of individual loan receivables Parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we on a sample basis to ensure the impairment provision balance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical recorded was accurate.
We also assessed the implications of the responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks above work on the accuracy and predictive nature of the cash we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group forecasting curves.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors Revenue recognition and calculation of the effective interest rate statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis Our assessment of risks of material misstatement of accounting contained within the Financial Review on page 37 of The recognition of revenue on loans using an effective interest rate We tested the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to revenue The assessed risks of material misstatement described below the Financial Statements and the directors statement on the longermethod requires significant judgement by management to determine recognition, and the mechanical accuracy of the models used to are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report key assumptions, in particular the expected life of each loan and calculate the effective interest rates.
This involved the recalculation allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of on page 43. related cash flows.
of a sample of product and cohort effective interest rates based upon the engagement team.
an extract of source data from the core lending system.
We also tested We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: These cash flows include interest charges, home collection charges, the completeness and accuracy of cash flow information included and early settlement rebates.
We have identified the key risks to be the within the models.
the directors confirmation on page 43 that they have carried out a appropriateness of management judgements used in the effective robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including interest rate calculation, in particular the average lives used, and the We assessed the appropriateness of managements key assumptions those that would threaten its business model, future performance, accuracy and completeness of source data used in the calculation.
used to calculate the effective interest rate by reference to the impact solvency or liquidity: of recently observable early redemption behaviour on the average The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk Committee on page lives of loan receivables and by performing analytical procedures 54 and within the key assumptions and estimates on page 105. to assess the sensitivity of changing the average lives.
92 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of International Personal Finance plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Deferred tax accounting The recognition of deferred tax assets is judgemental as it is partly Utilising tax specialists within the audit team, we tested the recognition reliant upon the underlying profit forecasts of the Group.
In the current and measurement of the deferred tax assets.
This involved confirming year a net deferred tax asset of 73.6 million has been recognised.
the nature of the timing differences giving rise to the assets.
We also confirmed that the profit forecasts used to justify the recognition of The measurement varies across the different markets due to temporary the assets were consistent with the Board approved underlying profit differences between local tax basis and local GAAP.
forecasts of the Group, which we challenged by reference to historical forecasting accuracy and other internal sources of data.
The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk Committee on page 55 and within the key assumptions and estimates on page 105.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions and regulatory matters As a result of enhanced supervisory powers for the local regulators We considered the completeness of any taxation or regulatory and taxation authorities, and an increased focus upon product provisions required by reference to internal and publically available design and matters relating to the fair treatment of customers, there is external information, and determined the key assumptions and an increased risk in relation to the completeness of provisions against queried the appropriateness of managements judgement on taxation or regulatory exposures in the various jurisdictions in which these for a sample of exposures across jurisdictions.
This work included considering recent regulatory and tax authority In particular, significant judgement is required in relation to the level announcements, reviewing correspondence with local regulators and of provisions required against taxation exposures, and whether any tax authorities to identify any potential areas where provisions could provisions are required for customer remediation.
arise, reviewing the Groups complaints logs, and reviewing any significant ongoing court cases brought to our attention.
In addition, we reviewed the key regulatory and taxation risks of which we became aware from the procedures we performed, met with the Group legal department and relevant management across the Group, circularised external counsel in each market where external counsel was used to evaluate any identified exposures, and reviewed relevant Board minutes to assess the completeness of relevant provisions in place.
This work involved the utilisation of taxation and regulatory expertise within the audit teams in the various countries in which the Group operates.
Impairment of assets in Slovakia As described on page 16, recent legislative changes in Slovakia led to We have challenged managements key forecast cash collection the Group ceasing new lending from December 2015, but continuing assumptions by assessing against internal collections data held by to collect outstanding receivable balances.
the Group, present collection trends since the decision to cease new business was taken, and external data where available.
We have also The cash flow forecasts used to estimate future collections assessed managements sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
on the existing Slovakian loan portfolio have been amended by management.
The assumptions used are subject to significant We have also assessed the legal and regulatory situation in relation to management judgement in that they estimate the impact of the the ability for the business to continue to collect outstanding balances, decision to cease new lending, the resultant changes in the credit by reference to advice obtained by management.
We have assessed market in Slovakia of this change in law, and also how both customers the competence, integrity and independence of the advisor.
and the agent population will respond in a run-off scenario.
The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk Committee on page 54 and within the key assumptions and estimates on page 105.
A new significant risk relating to the impairment of assets in Slovakia These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the has been included above.
There have not been any other changes Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, to the key risks identified since the prior year.
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Financial Statements Financial Statements International Personal Finance plc 92 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED 93 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 to the members of International Personal Finance plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Our application of materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the In our opinion: Deferred tax accounting Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic The recognition of deferred tax assets is judgemental as it is partly Utilising tax specialists within the audit team, we tested the recognition the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed reliant upon the underlying profit forecasts of the Group.
This involved confirming has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our year a net deferred tax asset of 73.6 million has been recognised.
We also Act 2006: and audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
confirmed that the profit forecasts used to justify the recognition of The measurement varies across the different markets due to temporary the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors the assets were consistent with the Board approved underlying profit We determined materiality for the Group to be 5.9 million 2014: 6.3 differences between local tax basis and local GAAP.
Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements forecasts of the Group, which we challenged by reference to historical million, which is 5% 2014: 5% of normalised pre-tax profit, and 1.8% are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
forecasting accuracy and other internal sources of data.
The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk Committee on page 2014: 1.7% of equity.
Pre-tax profit has been normalised by adjusting 55 and within the key assumptions and estimates on page 105. for the 15.9 million exceptional loss as described in note 10 2014: Matters on which we are required to report by exception 23.3 million exceptional loss.
The accumulation of profits is critical Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Provisions for uncertain tax positions and regulatory matters to an investor and in allowing the Group to invest in the business.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, As a result of enhanced supervisory powers for the local regulators We considered the completeness of any taxation or regulatory We have therefore selected profit before tax as the benchmark for in our opinion: and taxation authorities, and an increased focus upon product provisions required by reference to internal and publically available determining materiality.
design and matters relating to the fair treatment of customers, there is external information, and determined the key assumptions and we have not received all the information and explanations we We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report an increased risk in relation to the completeness of provisions against queried the appropriateness of managements judgement on require for our audit: or to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.1 million 2014: taxation or regulatory exposures in the various jurisdictions in which these for a sample of exposures across jurisdictions.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 0.1million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our the Group operates.
This work included considering recent regulatory and tax authority Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to In particular, significant judgement is required in relation to the level announcements, reviewing correspondence with local regulators and received from branches not visited by us: or the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified of provisions required against taxation exposures, and whether any tax authorities to identify any potential areas where provisions could when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement provisions are required for customer remediation.
arise, reviewing the Groups complaints logs, and reviewing any with the accounting records and returns.
An overview of the scope of our audit significant ongoing court cases brought to our attention.
The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk Committee on page Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
55 and within the key assumptions and estimates on page 105.
In addition, we reviewed the key regulatory and taxation risks of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and which we became aware from the procedures we performed, met Directors remuneration assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based with the Group legal department and relevant management across Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the Group, circularised external counsel in each market where opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been the audit work at eight locations, all of which were subject to a full external counsel was used to evaluate any identified exposures, made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited audit.
Together with the Group functions in the UK, which were also and reviewed relevant Board minutes to assess the completeness is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have subject to a full audit, these eight overseas locations represent the of relevant provisions in place.
nothing to report arising from these matters.
principal business units and account for 99.4% 2014: 99.2% of the Groups net assets, 97.6% 2014: 99.7% of the Groups revenue, 100% This work involved the utilisation of taxation and regulatory Corporate Governance Statement 2014: 100% of the Groups profit before tax and 79.3% 2014: 88.0% expertise within the audit teams in the various countries in which Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of of the losses before tax generated by components.
They were also the Group operates.
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Impairment of assets in Slovakia to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
As described on page 16, recent legislative changes in Slovakia led to We have challenged managements key forecast cash collection audit work at the eight locations was executed at levels of materiality Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report the Group ceasing new lending from December 2015, but continuing assumptions by assessing against internal collections data held by applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are to collect outstanding receivable balances.
the Group, present collection trends since the decision to cease new materiality and ranged from 0.1 million to 3.0 million 2014: 0.4 required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual business was taken, and external data where available.
We have also million to 2.9 million.
The cash flow forecasts used to estimate future collections Report is: assessed managements sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
on the existing Slovakian loan portfolio have been amended by At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial management.
The assumptions used are subject to significant We have also assessed the legal and regulatory situation in relation to carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there Statements: or management judgement in that they estimate the impact of the the ability for the business to continue to collect outstanding balances, were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated decision to cease new lending, the resultant changes in the credit by reference to advice obtained by management.
We have assessed financial information of the remaining components not subject to apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent market in Slovakia of this change in law, and also how both customers the competence, integrity and independence of the advisor.
audit or audit of specified account balances.
with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of and the agent population will respond in a run-off scenario.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned performing our audit: or The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk Committee on page visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits otherwise misleading.
54 and within the key assumptions and estimates on page 105. each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years.
In years when we do not visit a significant In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified component we will include the component audit partner and team any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual documentation of the findings from their work.
In the current Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual A new significant risk relating to the impairment of assets in Slovakia These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the year the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the Mexican location.
Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated has been included above.
There have not been any other changes Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have The key change in the scope of our work since prior year is the to the key risks identified since the prior year.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inclusion of two additional locations from the acquired IPF Digital inconsistencies or misleading statements.
business as full scope audit units, increasing the locations from six overseas locations to eight.
94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of International Personal Finance plc Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Stephen Williams FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Leeds, United Kingdom 24 February 2016
