Annual financial statements Schedule A to the directors report continued Shares required for the Powers of directors DLC structure Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006, the CREST regulations and Investec SSC UK Limited, a UK trust every other statute for the time being in company, specially formed for the purpose force concerning companies and affecting of the DLC structure, holds the plc special Investec plc, and any directions given by voting share, the plc special converting ordinary or special resolution, the business shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS of Investec plc will be managed by the share.
These shares can only be transferred board who may exercise all the powers of to another UK trust company, in limited Investec plc.
The board may exercise all the powers The plc special voting shares are specially of Investec plc to borrow money and to created shares so that shareholders of both mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, Investec plc and Investec Limited effectively property, assets and uncalled capital and vote together as a single decision-making to issue debentures and other securities, body on matters affecting shareholders of whether outright or as collateral security for both companies in similar ways, as set out any debt, liability or obligation of Investec in the Articles.
Prior to a change of control, approval of termination of the sharing agreement Significant agreements: which regulates the DLC, liquidation or insolvency of Investec plc, the plc special change of control converting shares have no voting rights, except in relation to a resolution proposing The Articles of Association of both Investec the: i variation of the rights attaching to the plc and the Memorandum of Incorporation shares or ii winding-up, and they have no of Investec Limited ensure that a person rights to dividends.
The special converting cannot make an offer for one company shares are held on trust for the Investec without having made an equivalent offer Limited ordinary shareholders.
Investec to the shareholders of both companies on plc and Investec Limited have established equivalent terms.
dividend access trust arrangements as part of the DLC.
Pursuant to the terms of the agreements establishing the DLC structure, if either Investec plc has issued two dividend Investec plc or Investec Limited serves access shares, the UK DAS share and UK written notice on the other at any time after DAN share which enables Investec plc either party becomes a subsidiary of the to pay dividends to the shareholders of other party or after both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
This facility may be used Investec Limited become subsidiaries of a by the board to address imbalances in third party the agreements establishing the the distributable reserves of Investec plc DLC structure will terminate.
and Investec Limited and or to address All of Investec plcs share plans contain the effects of South African exchange controls and or if they otherwise consider it provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would necessary or desirable.
normally vest and become exercisable 4 4 on a change of control and, where applicable, subject to the satisfaction of Appointment and anyperformance conditions at that time.
replacement of directors Directors shall be no less than four and no more than 20 in number.
A director is not required to hold any shares of Investec plc by way of qualification.
Investec plc may by special resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of directors.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 137
