FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plcs group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: the Significant accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Overall group materiality: 8.5 million which represents 5% of underlying profit before tax 2014: 9.1 million, which comprises profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
Materiality We scoped the audit based on entities that significantly contribute to revenue greater than 10% of total revenue and profit before tax greater than 15% of total profit before tax, thereafter based on material components in order to obtain global coverage of the group.
We conducted full scope audits of the financial information of 14 reporting entities across 8 countries.
Audit scope Certain Group functions and entities, including those covering treasury, taxation and pensions were also subject to a full scope audit.
Taken together, these territories and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 68% of Group revenues and 74% of underlying profit before tax.
We focused our work on: Area of focus Complex and judgemental areas of revenue recognition.
Completeness and valuation of litigation provisions.
Valuation and impairment of intangible assets.
Appropriateness of actuarial assumptions and inputs in calculation of pension liability.
90 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Complex and judgemental areas of revenue We updated our understanding of the key internal controls over the recognition revenue streams and tested the relevant controls in place to obtain comfort over the cut off, occurrence and accuracy of revenue around See significant accounting policies section within the the Group.
financial statements for the disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates.
We tested the timing of revenue recognition and whether the Group appropriately recorded revenue taking into account contractual terms Revenue is the largest balance in the group financial and performance obligations to customers by enquiry and detailed statements.
The Group has a number of revenue sample testing.
streams within which the timing and extent of revenue recognition is more complex or judgemental.
For example, We tested a sample of revenue transactions using substantive and revenue streams with ongoing performance conditions, data auditing techniques back to contracts and performed substantive long term revenue streams which generate significant testing over accrued and deferred revenue including evaluating the accrued income balances and third party revenue sharing appropriateness of the key assumptions by considering the accuracy arrangements which create the potential for incorrect of prior year estimates against the current year realisation which did not calculation of revenue.
Our audit covers the completeness, identify unusual or irregular items.
cut-off, occurrence and accuracy assertions.
We obtained unusual or complex arrangements around the Group, We also look at revenue streams where the processing is such as third party pay away arrangements and assessed them to manual rather than system-driven and as a result is more ensure there is appropriate revenue recognition in line with the Group at risk of misstatement due to fraud or error.
accounting policy, IFRS and the terms of the contract.
This is particularly prevalent in the Asian business.
Revenue recognition on judgemental, complex or unusual transactions is consistent with the Group accounting policy, IFRS and supporting documents.
Completeness and valuation of litigation provisions We assessed the Directors process for the identification and evaluation of provisions for the Groups potential and outstanding litigation.
The litigation provision as at 31 December 2015 is 18.2 million 2014: 5.6 million.
We obtained a list of external legal counsels that are used by JLT and sent a sample of confirmations to these parties to identify any See significant accounting policies section within the unknown litigations.
financial statements for the disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and note We reviewed the legal costs to check the completeness of this list 23 for detailed provision disclosures.
and understand if there was litigation we were not aware of through managements process.
We focused on this area because of the inherent uncertainty that surrounds litigation provisions in relation We reviewed the adequacy of the disclosures and the provisions by to potential and actual claims where clients or third parties considering the status of the known and potential claims back to believe there has been fault in the services provided and appropriate documents.
We understood the underlying assumptions, consequently the judgemental nature in estimating the level rationale and sensitivities having regard to the potential for bias.
As a result of this we determined that the overall provision is appropriate.
Management has provided for the costs on the basis of the most recent information.
The nature of the provisions, being determined on an assessment of legal outcomes, means any final settlement is subject to significant uncertainty.
The results could differ, possibly materially, from the amounts provided.
91 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation and impairment of intangible assets We evaluated the results of managements impairment assessment, including an assessment of the appropriateness At 31 December 2015 the group had 496.2m of goodwill and of the methodology used to perform this and performed 104.3m of intangible assets comprising computer software and substantive testing of all inputs into their valuation such capitalised employment contracts and management determined as agreeing to approved budgets and checking historical there to be considerable headroom of the recoverable amount performance against the budget.
above the net asset value for the majority of the Groups Cash Generating Units CGU, resulting in no impairment.
We considered the appropriateness of the key assumptions within managements valuation as follows: See significant accounting policies section within the financial statements for the disclosures of the related accounting policies, - terminal growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them judgements and estimates and notes 11 and 12 for detailed to economic and industry forecasts: and intangibles disclosures.
- WACC by assessing the cost of capital for the company We focused on this area because the determination of whether and comparable organisations.
or not certain elements of goodwill and intangible assets were We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions impaired involves complex and subjective judgements by the above to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions Directors about the future results of the relevant parts of the that either individually or collectively would be required for business.
Management calculates the recoverable amount by using goodwill to be impaired.
a value in use VIU discounted cash flow model underpinned by key assumptions which are the terminal growth rates and weighted For computer software intangibles we performed substantive testing to check the amount that has been capitalised is average cost of capital WACC by CGU.
directly associated with the production of identifiable and There has been and continues to be significant software unique software products that will generate economic capitalisation in the UK Employee Benefits business, its benefits exceeding costs beyond one year.
Specifically for the bespoke benefits management system.
The UK EB business Employee Benefits bespoke system, we obtained the model has experienced challenges during the year in its underlying and assessed the assumptions to identify if these were realistic performance.
As a result we focused our work on the valuation based on the business plan and through a scenario based and potential impairment of goodwill and software intangibles in sensitivity analysis.
For capitalised employment contracts we performed substantive testing over a sample of contracts to ensure there were relevant performance conditions to allow the capitalisation of the contracts.
As a result of this and our other testing we determined that the impairment assessment performed is reasonable based on the current business plans and historical performance for both goodwill and significant intangible items.
92 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Appropriateness of actuarial assumptions and inputs in We tested the controls over the completeness and accuracy calculation of pension liability of pension scheme data on which the pension liability assumptions are based.
We noted no exceptions from our The net pension liability has decreased to 130.4 million as at 31 testing.
We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used by See significant accounting policies section within the financial management including the key assumptions used to value the statements for the disclosures of the related accounting policies, UK pension liabilities.
judgements and estimates and note 31 for detailed pension disclosures.
- Discount rate: We considered the appropriateness of the 3.86% discount rate assumption used by reference to the We focus on this area as the pension scheme obligation is highly iBoxx AA 15 corporate bond index.
We reviewed the sensitive to changes in the assumptions used within the model adjustment made by management to match the duration to calculate the valuation and subsequent charge or credit to the of the liabilities and compared this to assumptions adopted Statement of Other Comprehensive Income OCI.
by other schemes with a similar duration.
Those assumptions to which the liability is most sensitive are as - Inflation rate: We agreed the rates used by management follows: for each of these elements to the Bank of England inflation Discount rate: Under IAS 19, the discount rate should be set curve.
with reference to the yield on high quality corporate bonds of - Mortality: We considered the appropriateness of the base term appropriate to the duration of the liabilities.
tables selected for use by management by reference to the Future rates of price inflation: the level of future pension mortality experience analysis completed by the UK Pension payments is linked to price inflation indices.
Various investment Scheme Trustees as part of the 2014 funding valuation.
market statistics are used to form a view on the long term No material exceptions were identified as part of our testing of the average rates of price retail and consumer price inflation.
assumptions outlined above and we consider the assumptions Post retirement mortality: Scheme specific base tables are used used to be in line with recognised market practices.
We are with an allowance for future improvements in life expectancy satisfied that the overall pension deficit of 130.4 million is based on recent projections.
These projections will depend on appropriately valued.
future expectations of improvements in life expectancy and are therefore uncertain.
How we tailored the audit scope In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial component auditors from other PwC network firms operating statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we and the industry in which the group operates.
needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be The Group is organised on a worldwide basis into three main able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence segments, based on the services and products offered: Risk had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group & Insurance, Employee Benefits and Head Office & Other financial statements as a whole.
These segments are consistent with the internal We issued instructions to each component engagement team.
reporting structure of the Group.
Head Office & Other operations As part of the supervision process the group engagement team consists of holding companies, central administration functions based in the UK visited 5 other countries including: US, Australia, and investments in associates.
There are several shared service India, Hong Kong and Singapore.
We perform quarterly calls with centres around the world underpinning these segments, each key reporting team to understand the key developments particularly in India.
We rotate our remote review of significant There were 4 financially significant components made up of JLT component work papers, this year focussing on Australia, Hong Specialty Risk and Insurance, JLT Australia Both Risk and Kong and Singapore.
Insurance and Employee Benefits JLT UK Employee Benefits Employee Benefits, and JLT Management Services Head Office Materiality and Other.
In addition we selected 10 further reporting entities The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of based on their size and risk characteristics for full scope audits materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
Taken together, the territories and These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 68% to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing of Group revenues and 74% of underlying profit before tax.
and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
93 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for information in the Annual Report is: We have no the financial statements as a whole as follows: exceptions to - materially inconsistent with the information report.
in the audited financial statements: or Overall Group 8.5 million 2014: 9.1 million.
- apparently materially incorrect based materiality on, or materially inconsistent with, our How we 5% of underlying profit before tax, which knowledge of the group acquired in the determined it comprises profit before tax adjusted for course of performing our audit: or non-recurring exceptional items.
the statement given by the directors on page We have no Rationale for When reviewing financial performance 85, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of exceptions to benchmark management focus on underlying profit the UK Corporate Governance Code the report.
applied that is profit before tax excluding nonCode, that they consider the Annual Report recurring exceptional items.
It is this taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and measure that is used both to discuss understandable and provides the information performance of the group with investors necessary for members to assess the groups and in calculating employee bonuses position and performance, business model and therefore we have concluded it is the and strategy is materially inconsistent with most appropriate measure of performance our knowledge of the group acquired in the against which to set our materiality course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages We have no We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 58 to 63, as required by provision C. 3.8 of exceptions to misstatements identified during our audit above 0.4 million 2014: the Code, describing the work of the Audit report.
0.5 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in Committee does not appropriately address our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and statement, set out on page 86, in relation to going concern.
of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or We have nothing to report having performed our review.
liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the the directors confirmation on page 57 of the We have financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw Annual Report, in accordance with provision nothing attention to.
C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried material to As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded out a robust assessment of the principal add or to draw that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing risks facing the group, including those that attention to.
The going concern basis presumes that would threaten its business model, future the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that performance, solvency or liquidity.
the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have the disclosures in the Annual Report that We have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is describe those risks and explain how they nothing appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions are being managed or mitigated.
material to can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the add or to draw groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the directors explanation on page 85 of the We have OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Annual Report, in accordance with provision nothing CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have material to assessed the prospects of the group, over add or to draw Companies Act 2006 opinion what period they have done so and why attention to.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and they consider that period to be appropriate, the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial and their statement as to whether they have statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and ISAs UK & Ireland reporting meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our period of their assessment, including any opinion: related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
94 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the the directors: and principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in the overall presentation of the financial statements.
relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit performed our review.
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Adequacy of information and explanations received In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and audited financial statements and to identify any information that is explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent report arising from this responsibility.
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Directors remuneration audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration OTHER MATTER specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year Corporate governance statement ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors Nick Wilks Senior Statutory Auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors for and on behalf of  LLP Responsibilities set out on page 85, the directors are responsible Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied London, 1 March 2016 that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: 95 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
