American pp33-41 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 33 Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Opinion on financial statements of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st December 2015 and of the Companys return for the year then ended: the Companys financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 24.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting on page 28 in the Directors Report and referenced at note 1 a to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Company contained within the strategic report on page 20.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 19 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 19 and 20 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in page 28 in the Directors Report and referenced at note 1 a to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 20 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
33 American pp33-41 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 34 Independent Auditors Report continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation and ownership of equity investments We reviewed and assessed the Global Custody SOC1 controls report The equity investments of the Company at year end are 885.4m of JPMorgan Chase Bank over the valuation of investments and 2014: 875.7m.
evaluated the design and implementation of the controls in place.
There is a risk that investments within the portfolio may not be We agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the actively traded and the prices quoted may not be reflective of fair investment ledger at year end to closing bid prices published by an value or that they may not represent the property of the Company.
See accounting policy at note 1 c and detailed disclosures at note 11.
To test the liquidity of investments as at 31 December 2015, we obtained the trading activity and volume of shares traded around the period end, by sampling across the portfolio held at the period end, focussing on the small cap holdings, and identified investments which were not frequently traded and considered indicators of impairment by monitoring the price of any post period-end sales.
We challenged the Manager and directors regarding their assessment of the portfolio pricing and liquidity.
We reviewed the completeness and appropriateness of disclosures in relation to fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
We agreed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year end to the confirmation received directly from the independent custodian.
Calculation of performance fees We tested the design and implementation of controls in place to There is a performance fee write back of 0.5m 2014: charge calculate the performance fee.
We reperformed the calculation of the negative performance fee Please refer to page 23 for details of the performance fee using inputs provided by management and the basis per the terms calculation.
The calculation is a complex calculation, there is a risk of the signed investment management agreement.
the performance fee may be calculated incorrectly.
We reviewed the provision schedule, recalculated the provision carried forward and determined whether the allocation of the fee See accounting policy at note 1 f and detailed disclosure at notes 5 was in line with the disclosed policy.
34 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 American pp33-41 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 35 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Recognition of investment income We evaluated the design and implementation of the controls over Dividends from equity shares of 17.8m 2014: 15.2m are revenue recognition, completeness and allocation.
accounted for on an ex-dividend basis.
For a sample of corporate actions and special dividends received, Dividends are accounted for as revenue, except where, in the we challenged the Managers rationale for the allocation between opinion of management and the board, the dividend is capital in revenue and capital against the requirements of Statement of nature, in which case it is treated as a return of capital.
Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts the SORP and agreed There is a risk that revenue is incomplete or that it is incorrectly details of the dividend to a third party source to evidence the nature allocated between revenue and capital accounts.
See accounting policy at note 1 e and detailed disclosure at note 4.
We developed an expectation of the dividends received for the year using market yield to assess the reasonableness of the dividends recorded.
To test the completeness of investment income, for a sample of investments held in the year, we agreed the ex-dividend dates and rates for dividends declared, obtained from an independent pricing source, and traced these to the dividend entitlement report to ensure that investment income has been recorded appropriately.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: Valuation of derivative instruments.
This risk is not considered to have had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team, due to the low complexity of the derivative instruments.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 27.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 8,166,000 2014: 8,057,500, which is approximately 1% 2014: 1% of Net Assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 50,000 2014: 50,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit There were no changes to the scope of our audit since the prior year.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As part of our audit we assessed the controls in place at the administrator who prepares the financial statement of the Company by reviewing a controls report over their activities.
35 American pp33-41 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 36 Independent Auditors Report continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
36 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 American pp33-41 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 37 Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, London, United Kingdom 23rd March 2016 37
