Financial statements 148 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Independent Auditors report to Just Retirement Group plc on the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the supplementary information of Just Retirement Group plc the Company for the year ended 30 June 2015 set out on pages 135 to 146.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the supplementary information is the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the European CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 138 to 143.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial statements which are on pages 87 to 131.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 147, the directors have accepted responsibility for the preparation of the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with the EEV Principles.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the supplementary information in accordance with the terms of our engagement and in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the supplementary information An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the supplementary information.
In addition we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited supplementary information.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on supplementary information In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information of the Company for the year ended 30 June 2015 has been properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 138 to 143.
Ben Priestley for and on behalf of KPMG LLP Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL United Kingdom 16 September 2015
