Financial statements 84 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Independent Auditors report To the members of Just Retirement Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the Group financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Just Retirement Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2015 set out on pages 87 to 134.
Inour opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Insurance liabilities 7,440.3m Refer to page 63 Audit Committee Report, page 98 accounting policy and note 21 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response The Group has significant insurance liabilities representing 71% We tested key controls over the identification, measurement and of the Groups total liabilities.
This is an area that involves management of the Groups calculation of the insurance liabilities significant judgement over uncertain future outcomes, mainly and the appropriateness of the assumptions used.
the ultimate total settlement value of insurance liabilities.
We involved our own internal actuarial specialists to assist us in our The valuation of the insurance liabilities requires the exercise challenge of the assumptions.
Procedures performed included: ofsignificant judgement in setting assumptions, in particular Evaluating the appropriateness of the base table and mortality mortality, expense and credit risk assumptions where the level assumptions used in the valuation of the Retirement Income ofjudgement involved is greatest and a small change can have liabilities by reference to company and industry data on historical asignificant impact on the reported balance.
mortality experience and mortality improvement rates: Assessing the credit risk assumptions when determining the Mortality assumptions liquidity premium applied to the discount rate and appropriateness Changing longevity trends and limited statistical data on the of managements methodology by reference to industry practice impact of emerging medical treatments on mortality means and our expectation derived from market experience: and there is a high level of uncertainty in the assumptions.
Comparing the expense assumptions to the Groups historical experience and assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions Credit risk assumptions by taking into consideration industry data and the estimated In setting the valuation discount rate, an explicit allowance for impact of future and recently announced legislation.
credit risk is included by making a deduction from the yields on debt and other fixed income securities.
The assumptions used We also assessed the Groups methodology for calculating the require significant judgement.
insurance liabilities against industry practice and their analysis of the movements in insurance liabilities during the year, including Expense assumptions considering whether those movements are in line with the A higher level of judgement is required for new products that assumptions adopted by the Group, our understanding of have limited evidence of the costs associated with the product.
developments in the business and our expectation derived from market experience.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the calculation of insurance liabilities, in particular the sensitivities of these assumptions to alternative scenarios and inputs.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements J Ju us st t Re Reti tir rem emen ent t G Gr rou oup p p pllc c || A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 || 85 85 Reinsurance assets 2,477.1m and liabilities 2,473.6m Refer to page 63 Group Audit Committee Report, page 97 accounting policy and notes 21, 24 and 26 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response Both the reinsurance asset and deposit liability calculation We involved our own internal actuarial specialists to assist us in our methods are set out in the reinsurance treaties and both challenge of the assumptions and our procedures included: balances are sensitive to movements in mortality and economic Evaluating the appropriateness of the mortality assumptions used assumptions.
The calculation of these balances is complex and in the valuation with reference to the basis used for policyholder involves significant judgement over uncertain future outcomes, liabilities and the terms of the reinsurance treaty: mainly the ultimate total settlement value of long-term Assessing the Groups calculation of the balances in respect of any policyholder liabilities.
recapture transactions during the period and obtaining counterparty confirmations for the transaction: As part of the reinsurance arrangements the Group has the Considering and comparing calculations prepared by the Group option to recapture the reinsurance in accordance with the against the calculation basis set out in the reinsurance treaties and reinsurance treaty.
There is an increased risk of material error in industry practice: the accounting treatment due to the complexities of the Assessing assets recognised through differences in calculation recapture process as there is a large amount of inputs required in bases between the gross liabilities and reinsurance balances for the calculation and non-recurring nature of the transaction.
recoverability and appropriateness against the terms of the reinsurance contract and the margins in the gross liabilities: and Considering the Groups analysis of the movements in reinsurance assets and deposit liabilities in relation to the movements in policyholder liabilities, our understanding of developments in the business and our expectation derived from market experience.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the calculation of reinsurance balances, in particular the sensitivities of these assumptions to alternative scenarios and inputs.
Loans secured by mortgages 3,471.8m Refer to page 63 Group Audit Committee Report, page 96 accounting policy and note 15 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response The loans are valued at fair value by projecting the discounted We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of cash flows using best estimate assumptions.
There is significant controls over the origination process, ownership of title deeds and judgement in respect of the valuation of the loans secured valuation process.
We specifically focused on the assumptions used in the valuation The key assumptions include property price volatility, voluntary model as expert judgements are required.
redemption rates, mortality rates and swap rates.
These are key inputs which affect the cash flow projection and the discount For the mortgage assets we used our own internal actuarial rate applied.
A small change of these assumptions can have a specialists to assist us in performing our audit procedures in this area, significant impact on the overall valuation.
which included: Critically assessing whether the valuation process is appropriately designed and captures relevant valuation inputs, by testing the completeness and accuracy of the information extracted from policyholder systems: Assessing pricing model methodologies against industry practice and valuation guidelines: Assessing the assumptions used within the valuation process, taking into consideration the Groups historical experience andindustry data.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the valuation of Lifetime Mortgages, in particular the sensitivity of the valuations adopted to alternative outcomes.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 6.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group net assets of which it represents 0.8%.
We consider Group net assets to be the most appropriate benchmark because it is a key financial statement metric used in assessing the performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it any corrected or uncorrected misstatements exceeding 325,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Financial statements 86 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Independent Auditors report continued To the members of Just Retirement Group plc only The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality level set out above and covered 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before taxation, and total Group assets.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or The Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The directors statement, set out on page 54, in relation to going concern: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 52 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 55, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Ben Priestley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 16 September 2015
