01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2015 47.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited Opinion on financial statements of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 22.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the company As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 c to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the company contained within the strategic report on page 13.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors conrmation on page 13 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 10 to 13 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 2 c to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identication of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 13 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the company and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of investments at Fair Value We obtained assurance over the appropriateness of managements judgements applied in determining the fair value of PPP As described in Note 10 to the financial statements, the infrastructure projects by: Company has 883.1m of investment in JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. : JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. in turn owns indirect investments in testing the operating effectiveness of controls at various service intermediate holding companies and equity and subordinated providers, focussing on the financial reporting and treasury debt interests in PPP infrastructure projects.
The investments cycles and the controls around the project models: in PPP projects are valued at 867.8m, and the subsidiaries testing the operating effectiveness of controls around the within the intermediate holding structure are valued at 15.3m.
valuation process adopted by management and the Board: As described in the Accounting Policies in Note 1 to the financial challenging management concerning the discount rates applied statements, the fair value of investments in PPP infrastructure to individual projects and to each sector, and comparing to projects is determined using a discounted cash ow relevant peers and recent market transactions: methodology, as there is no liquid market for these projects.
The complexity of this methodology, as well as the numerous, challenging the macroeconomic assumptions by reference to significant judgments, mean there is a risk that the fair value of observable market data and forecasts: these investments is not appropriate.
The key judgements are: reviewing forecast cash ows, in particular movements since Discount rates the determination of the appropriate acquisition and value enhancements made, with reference to discount rate for each investment that is reective of current third party support: market conditions and the specic risks within each project: reviewing the historical accuracy of managements cash ow Macroeconomic assumptions including corporation tax, forecasts against actual results: ination and deposit rates: running audit analytics on the valuation model and a sample Forecast future cash ows enhancements made to of project models to test them for integrity and material underlying project cash ows to enhance or change the formula errors: timings of cash ows from the PPP infrastructure projects: and using our valuation specialists to support our challenge of the Tax considerations the potential impact of Base Erosion valuation of investments, the appropriateness of managements profit Shifting and the surrendering of losses within the group judgements, and challenging managements independent structure on the fair value of the PPP infrastructure projects.
specialists: and using our tax specialists to assess the impact of certain tax considerations and then challenging management concerning the impact of those in the fair value of the Companys PPP infrastructure projects.
Key Observations We found that the assumptions and discount rates used in the valuation of investments were within reasonable ranges.
We found that the methodology applied was appropriate in all material respects.
Recognition of operating income As described in note 2 d, operating income represents the As well as the procedures highlighted above for challenging the movement in fair value of JLIFs investment in JLIF Luxco 1 fair value of investments we have: S.. r. l. This is determined by reference to the movement in the fair traced the distributions from the underlying investments through value of PPP infrastructure projects and the movement in the fair to the valuation model, and into the direct subsidiary and value of the intermediate subsidiaries.
There is a risk that there indirect subsidiaries may be double counting of forecast cash ows used in determining the fair value of these investments, with the cash agreed a sample of cash received into JLIFs subsidiaries in the ow included as both a receivable held at fair value and as a year to their bank statements, reviewing it for consistency with discounted forecast cash ow.
the accounting treatment to determine whether revenue is recognised in the correct period: and reviewed receivables against the fair value of investments in PPP infrastructure projects to assess whether there is no cash ow receipt included in both.
Key Observations We noted no material instances of inappropriate revenue recognition arising in our testing.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2015 49.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: restatement of comparative information for Investment Entities.
This has not been included this year as there have been no further clarifications following IFRS1, the implementation of Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 which required restatement of comparative information.
Additionally, the risk concerning the Valuation of Investments at Fair Value has been amended this year to focus on the PPP infrastructure projects as the risk of material misstatement of the fair value of intermediate subsidiaries is no longer considered to be significant as this fair value comprises mostly cash and working capital balances.
This year our report includes the risk of recognition of operating income because it was considered to be material to the members of the Company given it is determined by reference to the movement in fair value of PPP infrastructure projects and intermediate subsidiaries.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 39.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the company to be 16 million 2014: 16 million, which is below 2% 2014: 2% of equity.
We believe this is the most appropriate benchmark as equity is considered to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing its financial performance.
We have applied a lower materiality threshold of 2.9 million 2014: 2.5 million based on 5% of annual investment income 2014: 5%, to administrative costs as amounts less than 16m could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of shareholders as they provide the net income to support distributions to shareholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.32 million 2014: 0.32 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
JLIF uses a number of service organisations to manage its investments and to support in the preparation of the financial statements.
As such, we have performed design, implementation and operating effectiveness testing of controls at a sample of these service organisations, which gives coverage of 73.8% of the PPP investments by value.
In addition, we have reviewed the competency and capabilities of other service organisations to provide the services for which they are engaged.
Revenue recognition operating income Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
John Clacy, FCA for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 16 March 2016
