Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion: Lloyds Banking Group plcs consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2015: the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated and parent company cash flow statements for the year then ended: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Set out below is an overview of our audit approach, highlighting key aspects including materiality level, scope and areas of focus of our audit.
These are described in further detail later in this audit report.
Materiality Overall Group materiality: 300 million which represents 5 per cent of the 3 year average of adjusted profit before tax.
Profit was adjusted to remove the effect of certain items which were considered to have a disproportionate impact.
Audit scope The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment, the financial significance of reporting units and other qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
We performed audit procedures over reporting units considered financially significant in the context of the Group full scope audit or in the context of individual primary statement account balances audit of specific account balances.
We also performed other procedures including testing entity level controls, information technology general controls and analytical review procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in the residual reporting units.
Areas of focus The areas of focus for our audit which involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were: Credit risk and impairment of loans and advances Uncertain tax positions to customers Recognition of deferred tax assets Conduct risk and provisions Valuation of pension obligations Actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of insurance Fair value adjustments applied to uncollateralised contracts liabilities and assets representing the value of derivative financial instruments in-force business Sale of TSB Banking Group plc Hedge accounting The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors or management that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 75.
171 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Credit risk and impairment of loans and advances We understood and tested key controls and focused on: to customers the identification of impairment events: Refer to page 74 Audit Committee Report, page187 the governance over the impairment processes, including the continuous re-assessment by management that Significant Accounting Policies, page 197 Critical impairment models are still calibrated in a way which is appropriate for the impairment risks in the Groups loan Accounting Estimates and Judgements and portfolios: page226 notes.
the transfer of data between underlying source systems and the impairment models that the Group operates: and Impairment is a subjective area due to the level the review and approval process that management have in place for the outputs of the Groups impairment of judgement applied by management in models, and the adjustments and overlays that are applied to modelled outputs.
We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined Our work covered impairment of loans and advances that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes of our audit.
to customers within Retail Banking, Consumer Finance and Commercial Banking.
In addition we have performed the following substantive procedures: Retail Banking and Consumer Finance We focused on the identification of impairment events, which differs based upon the type of lending We understood managements basis for determining whether a loan is impaired and assessed the reasonableness product and customer.
Judgement is required to using our understanding of the Groups lending portfolios and our broader industry knowledge.
determine whether a loss has been incurred.
Impairment is calculated using models.
We therefore tested the completeness and accuracy of data from We also focused on the measurement of impairment, underlying systems and data warehouses that is used in those models.
including the assessment of whether historic We understood and critically assessed the models used.
Modelling assumptions and parameters, such as experience is appropriate when assessing the probability of default, are based on historic data.
We challenged whether historic experience was representative likelihood of incurred losses in the portfolios of current circumstances and of the recent losses incurred in the portfolios.
Where changes had been made in particularly given the prolonged period of low model parameters and assumptions, we understood the reasons why changes had taken place and used our interest rates.
industry knowledge and experience to evaluate the appropriateness of such changes.
We also performed sensitivity Judgement is applied to determine appropriate analysis, and for certain portfolios, re-performed the provision calculation using our own independent models.
We parameters and assumptions used to calculate understood and corroborated any material differences identified.
For example, the assumption of In evaluating the models and assumptions, we also considered whether all relevant risks were reflected in the customers that will default, the valuation of collateral modelled provision, and where not, whether overlays to modelled calculations appropriately reflected those risks.
for secured lending and the future cash flows of We challenged management to provide objective evidence to support the overlay adjustments made to the commercial loan customers.
Management also applies adjustments, or overlays, Based on the evidence obtained we found that the impairment model assumptions, data used within the models where they believe the data driven parameters and overlays to modelled outputs were reasonable.
and calculations are not appropriate, either due to emerging trends or models not capturing the risks Commercial Banking in the loan portfolio.
An example of this is an overlay We understood and evaluated the processes for identifying impairment events within the loan portfolios, as well for the current low interest rates which management as the impairment assessment processes for loans within the business support unit and run-off portfolio.
apply on top of the impairment model output in Retail Banking.
These overlays require significant We assessed critically the criteria for determining whether an impairment event had occurred and therefore whether judgement.
there was a requirement to calculate an impairment provision.
We tested a sample of performing loans with characteristics that might imply an impairment event had occurred for example a customer experiencing financial difficulty or approaching a refinancing deadline to challenge whether all impairment events had been identified by management.
We also haphazardly selected a sample of performing loans to further challenge whether all impairment events had been identified by management.
We did not identify further impairment events.
For a sample of individually impaired loans we understood the latest developments at the borrower and the basis of measuring the impairment provisions and considered whether key judgments were appropriate given the borrowers circumstances.
We also re-performed managements impairment calculation.
In addition, we tested key inputs to the impairment calculation including the expected future cash flows and valuation of collateral held, and challenged management to demonstrate that the valuations were up to date, consistent with the strategy being followed in respect of the particular borrower and appropriate for the purpose.
We further challenged management on the value of the provisions held by comparing the gains or losses crystallised when impaired loans have been sold.
This provided evidence that provisions held were appropriate.
From the testing performed we determined that sufficient specific impairment provisions had been made in respect of incurred losses in the Commercial Banking loan portfolios.
For the collective unidentified impaired provision, which reflects losses incurred but not yet identified, we tested the completeness and accuracy of the underlying loan information used in the impairment models by agreeing details to the Groups source systems as well as re-performing the calculation of the modelled provision.
For the key assumptions in the model, we challenged management to provide objective evidence that they were appropriate.
Further, we used our industry experience and knowledge to consider the appropriateness of the provision.
For overlays to the modelled output, we challenged management to provide objective evidence that the overlays were appropriate.
We found that the overlays were reasonable and appropriate.
172 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Conduct risk and provisions We understood and tested the key controls and managements processes for: Refer to page 74 Audit Committee Report, page 187 identifying conduct risk exposures and assessing whether provisions or disclosures were necessary: and Significant Accounting Policies, page 197 the calculation and review of conduct provisions including governance processes and approvals of model CriticalAccounting Estimates and Judgements and assumptions and outputs.
We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively and therefore we determined Given the continued regulatory focus on the financial that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes of our audit.
services sector there is a significant risk that further claims or regulatory investigations will emerge that We met with Divisional and Group management to understand the emerging and potential issues that they had identified.
We assessed independently emerging and potential areas where exposures might have arisen based impact the financial statements.
upon our knowledge and experience of emerging industry issues and the regulatory environment.
We used this There is a risk across the Group that emerging to challenge the completeness of the issues identified by management and whether a provision was required.
conduct risk areas have not yet been identified or appropriately assessed by management for financial We understood customer complaints received, assessed the trends and tested a sample of complaints to ensure they were appropriately categorised.
We used this analysis to understand whether there were indicators of more reporting purposes, including whether a provision is required or a contingent liability disclosed.
systemic issues being present for which provisions or disclosures may need to be made in the financial statements.
Where provisions or contingent liability disclosures We read the Groups correspondence with the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority and discussed the output of any meetings held.
We met on a trilateral basis with the Financial Conduct Authority, are made, judgement is required in measuring the liabilities.
Judgement is required in estimating Prudential Regulation Authority and the Chair of the Group Audit Committee.
We also met on a bilateral basis with each regulator.
future redress payments to be made to customers, regulatory fines, and operational costs of processing We read the minutes of key governance meetings including those of the Board, and of various management complaints and reviewing past business.
committees, as well as attending Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee meetings.
We also understood the key activities of the Conduct and Compliance function.
The majority of our detailed audit work was on the significant conduct provisions in relation to past sales of Payment Protection Insurance PPI policies, interest rate hedging products to small and medium-sized businesses, insurance products in the German branch of Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited now Scottish Widows Limited and packaged bank accounts.
We also examined other areas of compensation payments made to customers.
For significant provisions made, we understood and challenged the provisioning methodologies and underlying assumptions used by management.
For example, we challenged the basis that management used for forecasting the number of PPI complaints that will be received in the future.
We also considered regulatory developments and managements interactions with regulators.
For those assumptions based on historic information, we challenged whether this was appropriate for future experience and challenged the appropriateness of any adjustments made by management.
We also independently performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
Given the inherent uncertainty in the calculation of conduct provisions and their judgemental nature, we evaluated the disclosures made in the financial statements.
In particular, we focused on challenging management that the disclosures were sufficiently clear in highlighting the exposures that remain, significant uncertainties that exist in respect of the provisions and the sensitivity of the provisions to changes in the underlying assumptions.
No additional material conduct issues that would require either provision or disclosure in the financial statements were identified as a result of the audit work performed.
173 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of We understood and tested key controls and governance around the processes for analysing economic and noninsurance contracts liabilities and assets representing economic assumptions.
We found the key controls for the setting of assumptions, including the experience analysis the value of in-force business data, were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined that we could place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
Refer to page 74 Audit Committee Report, page187 Significant Accounting Policies, page 197 Critical We engaged our actuarial specialists to assess the actuarial assumptions, including the consideration and challenge Accounting Estimates and Judgements and of managements rationale for the judgements applied and any reliance placed on industry information.
assessment included reference to our independent benchmarking data which considers each of these principal areas.
For persistency, longevity and expenses we considered recent experience and the appropriateness of the The valuation of the Groups insurance contracts is judgements applied by management on how future experience will evolve.
For persistency, we also considered the dependent on a number of subjective assumptions appropriateness of assumptions set by management in light of regulatory changes.
In particular, we considered how about future experience.
the assumptions reflect expected persistency improvements from the removal of commission for qualifying pension Some of the economic and non-economic actuarial schemes and greater outflows of funds expected as a result of increased options available to pension policyholders assumptions used in valuing insurance contracts are Finance Act 2014.
For longevity and expenses we assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions by comparing judgemental, in particular persistency the retention them to experience and latest industry data.
of policies over time, longevity the expectation For credit risk and illiquidity premium we assessed the appropriateness of the methodology and any modifications of how long an annuity policyholder will live and made against our knowledge and experience of the regulatory requirements and of the industry.
We assessed the how that might change over time, expenses future assumptions with reference to wider market practice and prevailing economic conditions.
We challenged whether expenses incurred to maintain existing policies the actual asset mix remained an appropriate proxy to a market consistent portfolio by comparing the proportion to maturity, credit risk and illiquidity premium of illiquid assets held to the most recent public information for other similar companies.
We performed testing to adjustments made to the discount rate.
confirm that the assumptions approved were those applied.
Persistency can be impacted by changes to Based on the results of our audit work we concluded that the data and assumptions used by management regulation for products sold by the Group.
the Groups products have been affected by regulatory changes including the Retail Distribution Review, Pensions Auto Enrolment and more recently the Finance Act 2014.
We focused on whether managements assumptions were appropriate given this changing regulatory background.
The Groups accounting policy is that the discount rate applied to cash flows is consistent with that applied to such cash flows in the capital markets.
Management use the actual asset mix as a proxy for deriving a market consistent view of the illiquidity adjustment to the discount rate.
Small changes in each of these assumptions can result in material impacts to the valuation of insurance contract liabilities, the value of in-force assets and the related movements in the income statement.
Hedge accounting We understood and tested key controls over the designation and ongoing management of hedge accounting relationships, including testing of hedge ineffectiveness.
We found the key controls were designed, implemented Refer to page 74 Audit Committee Report, page187 and operated effectively, and therefore we determined that we could place reliance on these controls for the Significant Accounting Policies, and page 211 purposes of our audit.
We examined hedge documentation to assess whether the documentation complied with notes.
The Group enters into a number of hedges We tested key year-end reconciliations between underlying source systems and spreadsheets used to manage to manage structural interest rate risk.
These hedging models, including testing the calculation of hedge effectiveness adjustments.
arrangements create accounting mismatches which are addressed through hedge accounting We also tested a sample of manual adjustments posted to hedge reserves relating to hedge ineffectiveness arising arrangements, predominantly fair value hedges or in hedging models.
For example, one of the macro We found that hedge accounting methodology was appropriately applied.
cash flow hedge models uses a portfolio of Base Rate mortgage assets which are designated into hedge relationships with LIBOR based swaps.
The application of hedge accounting and ensuring hedge effectiveness can be highly judgemental and requires close monitoring from management.
Uncertain tax positions We examined the analyses performed by management which set out the bases for their judgements in respect of the material tax exposures identified, together with relevant supporting evidence such as correspondence with tax Refer to page 74 Audit Committee Report, page authorities and legal opinions obtained.
We used our understanding of the business and also read correspondence 187 Significant Accounting Policies, and page 246 with tax authorities to challenge the completeness of identified exposures and the need for provisions.
We made our own assessment of the likelihood of the tax exposures occurring based on our knowledge of tax The Group has a number of open tax matters, for which legislation and applicable precedent.
In making our assessment we considered the range of interpretation of management is required to make certain judgements the applicable tax legislation in the relevant jurisdictions.
We also evaluated the calculation of the exposures and as to the likely outturn for the purposes of calculating agreed these to the financial statements.
Such matters include an open matter in relation to a claim for group relief of losses We assessed whether the extent of the disclosures made, in particular, in relation to contingent liabilities and incurred in its former Irish banking subsidiary.
Managements judgements in respect of the Groups positions on uncertain tax items are supportable in the context of the information currently available.
174 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recognition of deferred tax assets We understood and tested key controls over the production and approval of the forecast taxable profits used to support the recognition of various deferred tax assets.
We found the key controls were designed, implemented and Refer to page 74 Audit Committee Report, page187 operated effectively, and therefore we were able to place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
Significant Accounting Policies, and page 232 notes.
We assessed whether the forecast profits were appropriate by challenging both the underlying and economic The recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect assumptions, focusing on those directly impacting the adjusted profit figures, for example interest rates, consumer of tax losses is permitted only to the extent that it is spending rates and gross domestic product.
We used our independent benchmarking data to benchmark a probable that future taxable profits will be available number of the economic assumptions to external data sources where possible, and also assessed the accuracy to utilise the tax losses carried forward.
When considering the availability of future taxable We also tested managements basis for allocating forecast profits between legal entities and the related profits, judgement is required when assessing disclosures by testing the allocation methodology, challenging significant assumptions and using our experience projections of future taxable income which are based of the Groups activities.
on approved business plans forecasts.
We have evaluated the impact of recent tax law changes on the calculation of the Group's deferred tax balances, The allocation of forecast profits is also judgemental including confirming that the loss restriction rules, the banking surcharge and the restriction of deductions for when considering the utilisation of the deferred tax certain compensation payments have been correctly applied.
assets in the separate legal entities where the assets reside.
We found that the utilisation period and the related disclosures were appropriate.
We understood and tested key controls over the completeness and accuracy of data extracted and supplied to the Valuation of pension obligations Groups actuary, which is used to calculate the pension scheme surplus or deficit.
We also tested the controls for Refer to page 74 Audit Committee Report, page187 determining and approving the fair value of the scheme assets and the actuarial assumptions and valuations.
We Significant Accounting Policies, page 197 Critical found the key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined that Accounting Estimates and Judgements and we could place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
We engaged our actuarial specialists and met with management and their actuary to understand the judgements The Group operates a number of defined benefit made in determining key economic assumptions used in the calculation of the liability.
We assessed the schemes which in total are significant in the context of reasonableness of those assumptions by comparing to our own independently determined benchmarks and both the overall balance sheet and results of the Group.
concluded that the assumptions used by management were appropriate.
The valuations of the pension obligations are We tested the consensus and employee data used in calculating the obligation.
We also considered the treatment calculated with reference to a number of actuarial of curtailments, settlements, past service costs and measurements, and any other amendments made to obligations assumptions and inputs including discount rate, rate during the year.
We tested the fair value of scheme assets by independently calculating a fair value for a sample of of inflation and mortality rates.
The treatment of curtailments, settlements, past service costs and measurements and other Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the data and assumptions used by management in the actuarial amendments can significantly impact the balance valuations and the fair value of the scheme assets are within a range we consider to be reasonable.
sheet and results of the Group.
We also read and assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements, including disclosures of the Small changes in assumptions can result in material assumptions, and found them to be appropriate.
impacts to the net pension liability or asset.
Fair value adjustments applied to uncollateralised We understood and tested the key controls over derivative valuations, which included the derivative valuation derivative financial instruments adjustments.
In particular, we tested: Refer to page74 Audit Committee Report, page 187 the key governance controls management had over the derivative valuation adjustments: Significant Accounting Policies, and page257 the controls over the completeness and accuracy of data inputs to the valuation models: and notes.
the review of the derivative valuation adjustments calculated by the valuation models.
The Group applies fair value adjustments to We found the key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined uncollateralised derivative positions, such as credit that we could place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
and debit valuation adjustments CVA and DVA and funding valuation adjustments FVA.
We assessed the models used by management to calculate the fair value adjustments.
Where there have been no significant changes to models over the year, we challenged management to demonstrate to us that the models and These are highly judgemental and complex the underlying methodologies remained appropriate.
calculations dependent on market data, and models developed by management.
For CVA and DVA, For the data inputs used in the models, such as the creditworthiness of the Groups counterparties, we challenged the adjustments are sensitive to factors such as the management to demonstrate their appropriateness.
We also performed procedures to obtain evidence to support value of the uncollateralised derivative financial the inputs used in the model.
instruments, their expected future market volatility For FVA, the Group has refined its methodology in line with developing industry practice, and based on data from and credit risks.
For FVA, the adjustment is sensitive observed transactions over the last 18 months.
We assessed the methodology for calculating FVA based on our to funding rates observed in market transactions knowledge of current industry practices, and tested underlying transactions back to supporting evidence.
which are difficult to isolate from other elements of pricing.
We also read and assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements for valuation adjustments and concluded they are sufficient.
We met with management prior to the sale of TSB Banking Group plc to discuss the accounting and disclosure Sale of TSB Banking Group plc implications.
Refer to page 74 Audit Committee Report, page187 Significant Accounting Policies, and page278 We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the one-off transactions key control, and notes.
determined that we could rely on this control for the purposes of our audit.
We read the analysis prepared by management for the accounting treatment for the sale of TSB Banking Groupplc The accounting for the sale and subsequent derecognition of TSB Banking Group plc in the to Banco Sabadell, and challenged the appropriateness of assumptions and whether all the relevant accounting implications had been considered relating to the staged disposal of the shareholding.
We read the relevant legal consolidated financial statements has been judgmental and complex, and has required contracts to ensure the analysis prepared by management considered all accounting and disclosure impacts.
We agreed the receipt of the cash consideration.
No issues were noted with the accounting treatments adopted.
transaction specific controls to be designed and operate effectively.
We examined relevant disposal cost estimates and analysis regarding the early exit of support arrangements for The disposal of the entire shareholding in TSB TSB Banking Group plc and related provisions made in the year.
Banking Group plc had a material impact on the Given the judgmental nature of the accounting for the sale of TSB Banking Group plc, we assessed the disclosures financial statements.
made in the financial statements to check they complied with the relevant accounting standards and other pronouncements on disclosures.
We particularly focused on challenging management that the disclosures were complete and sufficiently clear in highlighting the nature, accounting treatment and financial statement impact of the transaction.
175 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured into five segments being Retail Banking, Commercial Banking, Insurance, Consumer Finance and Run-off and Central Items.
Each of the segments comprises a number of business reporting units.
The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of the business reporting units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed over the business reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction component auditors.
Almost all of our audit work is undertaken by PwC UK component auditors.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those business reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
This included regular communication with the component auditors throughout the audit, the issuance of instructions, a review of the results of their work on the areas of focus and attendance at formal clearance meetings.
Any business reporting units which were considered individually financially significant in the context of the Groups consolidated financial statements were considered full scope components.
We then considered the individual financial significance of other business reporting units in relation to primary statement account balances.
We also considered the presence of any significant audit risks and other qualitative factors including history of misstatements through fraud or error.
Any business reporting unit which was not already included as a full scope audit component but was identified as being individually financially significant in respect of one of more account balances was subject to specific audit procedures over those account balances.
Inconsequential components defined as business reporting units which did not represent a reasonable possibility of a risk of material misstatement either individually or in aggregate were eliminated from further consideration for specific audit procedures although they were subject to Group level analytical review procedures.
All remaining business reporting units which were neither inconsequential nor individually financially significant were within our audit scope, with the risk of material misstatement mitigated through audit procedures including testing of entity level controls, information technology general controls and Group and component level analytical review procedures.
Some account balances were audited centrally by the Group engagement team.
Business reporting units within the scope of our audit contributed 99per cent of Group total assets.
Audit coverage on account balances in the consolidated income statement ranged between 60per cent and 94per cent.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual account balances and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 300 million 2014: 268 million How we determined it 5 per cent of the 3 year average of adjusted profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Our starting point was 5 per cent of profit before tax, a generally accepted auditing practice.
However, profit before tax was adjusted to remove the disproportionate effect of certain, but not all, items excluded by management from underlying profit.
The costs associated with the disposal of TSB Banking Group plc and conduct expenses and for which specific audit procedures were undertaken were excluded from profit before tax in 2015.
In 2015 for the first time we used an average over 3 years 2013 to 2015 which reduces the potential for volatility and large increases in materiality year-on-year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 20 million 2014: 8 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 108, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
In drawing this conclusion the directors have considered: the regulatory capital position of the Group which is critical to the market maintaining confidence in the Groups ability to absorb losses that it may incur in a market stress: and the funding and liquidity position of the Group to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due, including in a market stress.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
In drawing our conclusion, we critically assessed the going concern assessment undertaken by management and approved by the Board or directors.
As part of our assessment we have: critically assessed and challenged the appropriateness of the stress scenarios used and their impact on the Groups capital and liquidity position: understood and challenged key economic and other assumptions used in both the capital and liquidity plan and the Groups operating plan: and substantiated the Groups unencumbered collateral position and potential to access central bank liquidity facilities.
176 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the corporate governance report set out on pages 60 to 71 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 110, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and parent companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 75, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 108 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to add or to draw of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or to draw managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 108 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing material to add or to draw the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have attention to.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
177 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 110, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Philip Rivett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 24 February 2016 a The maintenance and integrity of the Lloyds Banking Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
