I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O R S R E PO R T T O T H E M E M B E R S O F M A N G R OU P P L C Opinion on financial statements of Man Group plc We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: In our opinion: the directors confirmation on page 34 that they have carried out a the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 those that would threaten its business model, future performance, December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then solvency or liquidity: ended: the disclosures on pages 36-37 that describe those risks and explain the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in how they are being managed or mitigated: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern the Parent Company financial statements have been properly basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Disclosure Framework: and financial statements: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance the directors explanation on page 34 as to how they have assessed with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and as the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement Regulation.
as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, the over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Parent drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Company Balance sheets, the Group cash flow statement, the Group and Parent Company Statement of changes in equity and the related We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of Notes 1 to 32 for the Group and 1 to 7 for the Parent Company.
The accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been going concern.
applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Independence Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 1 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the strategic report on page 34.
92 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 92 24 02 2016 18:04 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill As at 31 December 2015, total goodwill on the balance sheet amounted We used our modelling experts to assess the principles and integrity of to $907m 2014: $936m, which equates to 27% 2014: 28% of total the goodwill model to determine whether it was structured appropriately.
We worked with our valuation specialists to challenge the key The Groups assessment of whether there is an impairment of goodwill assumptions used in the goodwill model including the discount rate within each of the four identified cash generating units CGUs or and the multiples applied to the separate CGUs by comparing these investment engines is a judgemental process.
This requires estimates assumptions against industry benchmarks.
concerning future cash flows, multiples, growth rates based upon managements view of future business prospects, investment We compared the discount rate used by the Group to reflect its cost of performance and the associated discount rates.
capital to that used by entities with similar risk profiles and independently recalculated the Groups cost of capital.
At the half year there was a material impairment to the goodwill of the FRM CGU of $41m: therefore this CGU has been a particular area of We considered the accuracy of the cash flow forecasts based on our focus.
In addition, as a result of the acquisition of Numeric in 2014 understanding of the future prospects of the business by: and its growth and integration within the wider business during 2015, following a series of discussions with key management across each of management have reassessed their cost allocation model to reflect the the CGUs: costs allocated to the different CGUs.
The cost allocations are necessarily performing a retrospective review of the accuracy of previous forecasts: subjective and accordingly this creates audit risk.
agreeing key historical inputs to audited data: and by challenging management where any conflicting evidence was See Note 13 to the financial statements which gives further detail in obtained.
relation to the Goodwill balance.
We performed an independent sensitivity analysis over key assumptions to determine the impact of changes to those assumptions to the value in use of each CGU, and hence to identify if such changes would trigger a potential impairment.
As an additional data point, we recalculated managements reconciliation of the total valuation of the CGUs to the market value of the Group based upon the share price at year end.
Further, we discussed the basis of the cost reallocation with management and performed an independent analysis over a sample of the business units in question to assess whether the revised allocation was appropriate.
Revenue recognition To record management and performance fee transactions, the Group We performed detailed walkthroughs of the revenue control processes has numerous manual processes in place.
In addition, there are multiple and tested the design and implementation of key controls identified service providers that add to the intricacy of the process.
Furthermore, the accuracy and completeness of the management We have substantively tested in excess of 500 revenue samples by and performance fees depend on the effective communication of any independently assessing the fee based on underlying legal documents changes to underlying agreements between several parties.
and independent valuation reports, and comparing this to the fee recorded by management.
As a result of the complexity of the transactions and multiple interactions required, there is no standardised process across the Group.
This creates We performed additional procedures on the underlying legal documents a risk that revenue is not recorded or not recognised in line with the latest given to us by management to determine whether they were the most governing documents.
up-to-date documents for the time period tested.
Further explanation is included within Note 3 to the financial statements.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 93 23978 Man AR15.
indb 93 24 02 2016 18:04 I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O R S R E PO R T T O T H E M E M B E R S O F M A N G R OU P P L C C O NTI N U E D Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Completeness and accuracy of revenue rebates and We performed detailed walkthroughs of the rebate and commission distribution costs control processes and assessed the design and implementation of the Revenue is recorded net of rebates due to investors whilst fees paid to current control environment.
intermediaries for distribution services are recorded within distribution costs.
For a sample of clients, we have independently recalculated the rebate and or distribution fees based on underlying legal documents The Group has relationships with more than 1,000 intermediaries and and supporting valuations.
We have assessed the year end listing of clients.
The recording of these balances is based on highly manual rebate and distribution cost liabilities to determine whether any appear processes and is reliant on effective communication between multiple unfounded.
For a sample of investors and intermediaries, we have areas of the business on a case by case basis when agreements are determined whether an accrual should be recognised at year end based reached.
Hence there is an increased risk of error within this balance, on agreements with the client to check the completeness of the year end specifically that the liability is not recorded.
Furthermore, we have tested all distribution payments made during January that individually exceed $50,000 to determine whether Additionally, many of the accruals are aged, as it can take a long period they have been recorded in the correct period.
of time to finalise negotiations.
As a result, there is an increased risk that the liabilities recorded are not valid.
Consolidation of the Groups investments We performed a walkthrough of the processes by which the Group The Group holds investments in a number of funds which it manages, controls these investment decisions and how these investments are as described in Note 16.
The accounting for the investments requires subsequently monitored for consolidation triggers and recorded.
We also judgment in determining whether power and control exists and hence tested the design and implementation of the key controls in operation whether investments are held on the balance sheet at fair value or are during the year.
consolidated, as required by IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
As a result of this assessment, $213m 2014: $0m in net assets have We independently assessed whether a sample of funds held at year end been consolidated on a line by line basis within the Groups balance should be consolidated.
This included 100% testing of the funds included sheet, $119m 2014: $153m recorded as net non-current assets held for in the listing maintained by management of those funds considered to be sale and $269m 2014: $307m as investments in fund products and other most at risk of potential consolidation.
We assessed each fund included investments.
Together, these items represent 27% 2014: 19% of the in the listing referred to above by considering the size of the holding Groups net assets.
per custodian statements as well as the contractual arrangements.
In particular we focussed on investments in collateralised loan obligations See Note 16 to the financial statements which gives further detail in CLOs where control is not necessarily dictated by percentage relation to the Groups investments.
Last year our audit report included three other risks which are not We determined materiality for the Group to be $22.0 2014: $19.5m.
As included in our audit report this year: IFRS 12 disclosure requirements performance fees are variable and can fluctuate significantly year on year, for investments in funds which was a new reporting requirement in we have taken an average of the current year and prior year adjusted 2014 and has now been implemented, acquisition accounting as there profit before tax in order to create a more stable basis and calculated have been no significant acquisitions during the year and taxation as materiality to be five per cent of this figure.
The adjusted profit before the tax provisions have largely been finalised and methodology for the tax number is explained in Note 2 to the financial statements, and the recognition of the deferred tax asset was analysed in detail in the prior calculated materiality is below 1% of equity.
Adjusted profit before tax is a year.
relevant benchmark as it is a key figure used by analysts in assessing the performance of the business.
In addition, we have included a new risk in 2015 relating to revenue rebates and distribution costs.
This is a complex area of accounting and We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report is highly manual, thus susceptible to error.
Management implemented to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $440,000 2014: a number of new processes and controls around the monitoring and $400,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, recording of these costs during the year, hence there was increased audit warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit effort in considering these new processes.
and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed An overview of the scope of our audit on page 59.
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial risks of material misstatement at the group level.
This is consistent with statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do the approach adopted in the prior year.
Based on that assessment, not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at seven geographical locations.
This included the full audit of fifteen subsidiaries Our application of materiality across the UK, the US, Switzerland, Australia, Ireland, the Cayman We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Islands and the Channel Islands.
A further fourteen subsidiaries across statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a the UK, the Channel Islands and the US were subject to an audit of reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the evaluating the results of our work.
materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These seven geographical locations represent the principal business units and account for 96% 2014: 98% of the Groups total assets, 99% 2014: 94 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 94 24 02 2016 18:04 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97% of the Groups revenue and 98% 2014: 96% of the Groups profit In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is identified above.
Our audit work at the twenty nine subsidiaries was fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from $370,000 to and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
At the Parent Company level we also We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures misleading statements.
to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance member of the group audit team visits each of the locations where the with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and group audit scope was focused at least once a year.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control year visits were made to New York, Boston, Switzerland and Australia.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that Books and records for subsidiaries located within Ireland, the Cayman our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our Islands and the Channel Islands are maintained within the UK and are quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards audited by the group audit team.
review team and independent partner reviews.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in In our opinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the consistent with the financial statements.
company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures our opinion: in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the we have not received all the information and explanations we require financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused for our audit: or by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately from branches not visited by us: or disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Directors remuneration acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been the implications for our report.
made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have Mark FitzPatrick Senior statutory auditor nothing to report arising from these matters.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Corporate Governance Statement London, UK Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the 24 February 2016 Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 95 23978 Man AR15.
