Financial Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Monks Investment Trust PLC We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the Report on the financial statements risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, Our opinion we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for In our opinion, The Monks Investment Trust PLCs financial example in respect of accounting estimates that involved making statements the financial statements : assumptions and considering future events that are inherently give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of 30 April 2015 and of its net return and cash flows for the year management override of internal controls, including evaluating then ended: whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we Companies Act 2006. tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an What we have audited opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
The Monks Investment Trust PLCs financial statements comprise: This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
the Balance Sheet as at 30 April 2015: Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus the Income Statement for the year then ended: the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: Income from We assessed the accounting policy for income investments recognition for compliance with accounting the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for the standards and the AIC SORP and performed Refer to page 23 year then ended: and testing to check that income had been Audit Committee accounted for in accordance with this stated the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of Report, page 35 accounting policy.
Accounting Policies significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
We found that the accounting policies Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the implemented were in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, rather accounting standards and the AIC SORP, and presume there is a risk than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossthat income has been accounted for in of fraud in income referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
accordance with the stated accounting policy.
recognition because of the pressure We understood and assessed the design and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the management may feel implementation of key controls surrounding preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United to achieve capital income recognition.
Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted growth in line with the We tested dividend receipts by agreeing the Accounting Practice.
objective of the dividend rates from a sample of investments to Company.
No Our audit approach We focused on the misstatements were identified by our testing.
Overview accuracy and To test for completeness, we tested that the completeness of appropriate dividends had been received in the Materiality dividend income year by reference to independent data of Overall materiality: 10.2 million which represents 1% of net recognition and its dividends declared by a sample of investment assets.
presentation in the holdings in the portfolio.
Our testing did not Income Statement as identify any unrecorded dividends.
Audit scope set out in the We tested the allocation and presentation of The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and requirements of The dividend income between the income and capital has engaged Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned Association of return columns of the Income Statement in line subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as the Companys Alternative Investment Companies with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
Investment Fund Manager and Company Secretary.
Baillie Gifford Statement of The gains losses on investments held at fair value Recommended & Co Limited has delegated the investment management function comprise realised and unrealised gains losses: Practice the AIC to Baillie Gifford & Co the Manager.
for realised gains losses, we tested disposal SORP.
proceeds by agreeing the proceeds to bank We conducted our audit of the financial statements at Baillie This is because statements and sale agreements and we Gifford & Co. incomplete or re-performed the calculation of a sample of inaccurate income We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types realised gains losses: could have a material of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third for unrealised gains losses, we obtained an impact on the parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, understanding of the valuation process as companys net asset and the industry in which the Company operates.
set out in the valuation and existence area value and dividend of focus.
We tested the book cost cover.
Areas of Focus reconciliation including testing on a sample We also focused on Income from investments.
basis the realised gains, purchases and gains losses on sales to agree the total unrealised gains Valuation and existence of investments.
investments held at fair losses incurred during the period.
value due to the The scope of our audit and our areas of focus No misstatements were identified by our testing subjective nature of which required reporting to those charged with We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the valuation of governance.
on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
28 Annual Report 2015 Financial Report We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus misstatements identified during our audit above 512,000 2014: Valuation and We tested the valuation of the investment 486,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our existence of portfolio as follows: view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
investments for listed debt and equity investments we Going concern Refer to page 23 agreed the prices used in the valuation to Audit Committee independent third party sources: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Report, page 35 for unlisted debt investments, where statement, set out on page 22, in relation to going concern.
We have Accounting Policies available we agreed the valuation to broker nothing to report having performed our review.
quotes or agreed the price to other third As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded The investment party sources or transactions close to the that it is appropriate to prepare the Companys financial statements portfolio at the year year end: using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern end comprises of for the two unlisted equity investments, we basis presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain listed debt and equity understood the basis of the valuation investments in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one methodology, reviewed the fair value pricing 1,068m, unlisted year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of committee minutes where the valuation was debt 19m and agreed, and reviewed the underlying our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going unlisted equity 9m.
documentation used to support the valuation concern basis is appropriate.
We focused on the used, such as external valuations or draft However, because not all future events or conditions can be valuation and existence capital statements for the investment.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Companys of investments because No misstatements were identified by our ability to continue as a going concern.
the principal element of We tested the existence of the investment Other required reporting the net asset value as portfolio by agreeing the holdings for investments disclosed on the Consistency of other information to an independent custodian confirmation from Balance Sheet in the Bank of New York Mellon SA NV.
No differences Companies Act 2006 opinions financial statements.
In our opinion: How we tailored the audit scope the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the types of investments within the ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Company, the involvement of the Manager, the accounting processes Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
opinion: As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment in place at the Manager to the extent relevant to our audit.
This information in the Annual Report is: We have no assessment involved obtaining and reading the relevant control exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information in the reports, issued by the independent auditors of the Manager in report arising audited financial statements: or from this accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such apparently materially incorrect based on, or responsibility.
work, to gain an understanding of the Managers control environment materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the and to consider the operating and accounting structure at the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Manager.
Following this assessment, we applied professional otherwise misleading.
judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
the statement given by the Directors on page 27, in We have no accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate exceptions to Materiality Governance Code the Code, that they consider report arising The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, from this materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
balanced and understandable and provides the responsibility.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to information necessary for members to assess the determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of Companys performance, business model and our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: the section of the Annual Report on pages 23 and We have no 24, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, exceptions to Overall materiality 10.2 million 2014: 9.7 million.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not report arising appropriately address matters communicated by us from this How we determined it 1% of net assets.
Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a generally benchmark applied accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 29 Financial Report Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of financial statements involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in assurance that the financial statements are free from material our opinion: misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an we have not received all the information and explanations we assessment of: require for our audit: or whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not and adequately disclosed: visited by us: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the financial statements and the part of the Directors the Directors: and Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own Directors remuneration judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a Companies Act 2006. reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through understanding the control environment at the Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Manager and through substantive procedures.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently this responsibility.
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Corporate governance statement knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Catrin Thomas Senior Statutory Auditor Responsibilities for the financial statements and for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the audit Edinburgh Our responsibilities and those of the directors 16 June 2015 As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 27, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
