Financial S Financial St tatements atements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Companys loss for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited Murray International Trust PLCs financial statements comprise: Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2015 Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2015 Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2015 Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 December 2015 Related notes 1 to 21 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Incomplete or inaccurate income recognition through failure to recognise proper income entitlements or apply appropriate accounting treatment.
Incorrect valuation and existence of the investment portfolio.
The management and performance fees payable by the Company for investment management services are not calculated in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the investment management agreement.
Audit scope We performed an audit of Murray International Trust PLC.
Materiality Materiality of 10.9m which represents 1% of equity shareholders funds 2014: 12.4m.
46 Annual Report 2015 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those with the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas: Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Incomplete or inaccurate income We performed the following We noted no issues in agreeing the sample recognition through failure to procedures: of dividends and interest receipts to and recognise proper income from an independent source.
entitlements or apply appropriate We agreed a sample of dividend and accounting treatment as described interest receipts to an independent We noted no issues in agreeing the sample on page 43 of the Report of the Audit source.
of accrued dividends and interest receipts Committee.
We agreed on a sample basis, Most of the Companys income is investee company dividend received in the form of dividends and announcements and fixed interest interest from fixed income coupon dates from an independent investments, being 51m 2014: source to the income recorded by 52m and 16m 2014: 11m the Company.
We agreed all accrued dividends and The investment income receivable by fixed interest to an independent the Company during the period source.
directly affects the Companys ability to pay a dividend to shareholders and there is also a manual and judgemental element in allocating special dividends between revenue and capital.
Given this, we considered there to be a fraud risk, in accordance with Auditing Standards, in this area of our audit.
During the year, the Company received 16 special dividends, with an aggregate value of 2.1m.
None of the special dividends received during the year were material, individually or in aggregate.
Murray International Trust PLC 47 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC continued Incorrect valuation and existence of We performed the following For all investments, we noted no material the investment portfolio as procedures: differences in market value or exchange described on pages 42 and 43 of the rates.
Report of the Audit Committee.
For all investments in the portfolio, we agreed the prices to an We noted no differences between the The valuation of the portfolio at 31 independent source.
custodian and depositary confirmations December 2015 was 1,273m 2014: and the Companys underlying financial 1,408m including 1,107m 2014: For those investments priced in records.
1,226m of equities and 166m currencies other than sterling we 2014: 182m of bonds.
have agreed the exchange rates to an independent source.
The valuation of the assets held in the investment portfolio is the key We independently obtained driver of the Companys net asset confirmations from the Companys value and total return.
Incorrect asset custodian and depositary to confirm pricing or a failure to maintain proper the existence of the assets held as at legal title of the assets held by the 31 December 2015.
Company could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
The management and performance We performed the following We are satisfied that the terms of the fees payable by the Company for procedures: investment management agreement have investment management services been correctly applied within the are not calculated in accordance We used the terms contained in the management and performance fee with the methodology prescribed in investment management agreement calculations.
the investment management to recalculate the management and agreement as described on page 42 performance fees for the year.
For all inputs and payments, we noted no of the Report of the Audit issues in agreeing the amounts to source Committee.
We agreed the inputs for the data and bank statements.
calculations to source data and For the year ended 31 December agreed the payments to bank We noted no issues in agreeing the 2015, the total management fees statements.
allocation of the management fee amounted to 7.0m 2014: 7.2m.
There was The Company has underperformed In line with the Companys stated no performance fee payable in the year.
the benchmark in the year.
policy, and consistent with the prior year, we checked that the The fees payable by the Company for management fee has been correctly investment management services are charged 70% to the capital column a significant component of the and 30% to the revenue column of Companys cost base and, therefore, the Statement of Comprehensive impact the Companys total return.
the management fees are not calculated in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the investment management agreement this could have a significant impact on both costs and overall performance.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to valuation and existence of the investment portfolio and a risk of material misstatement in relation to the calculation of the management and performance fees.
In the current year, we also recognise a risk of material misstatement in relation to the recognition of revenue.
We have assessed this as a fraud risk and a significant risk this year as investment income receivable by the Company during the period directly affects the Companys ability to pay a dividend to shareholders and judgement is used in allocating special dividends 48 Annual Report 2015 between revenue and capital, Potentially, these factors could give the Manager both the incentive and the opportunity to misstate the revenue of the Company in order to meet shareholder expectations.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
The Company is a single component and we perform a full audit on this Company.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined planning materiality for the Company to be 10.9m 2014: 12.4m, which is 1% of equity shareholders funds.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We derived our materiality calculation from a proportion of total equity as we consider that to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge the performance of the Company.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Company should be 75% of planning materiality, being 8.2m 2014: 9.3m.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total undetected and uncorrected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company we also applied a separate testing threshold of 3.1m 2014: 3.3m for the revenue column of the Income Statement, being 5% of the revenue return on ordinary activities before taxation.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2014: 0.6m as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information Murray International Trust PLC 49 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC continued that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 45 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and nonWe have no reporting financial information in the annual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no reporting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, exceptions to or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from report.
branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we 50 Annual Report 2015 require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements the directors statement in relation to going concern set out on page exceptions to 36, and longer-term viability, set out on page 11: and report.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything We have reporting material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: nothing the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have material to carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the add or to entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future draw performance, solvency or liquidity: attention to.
the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Andrew McIntyre Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor London 11 March 2016 Murray International Trust PLC 51
