FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements the financial statements of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited which comprise the consolidated statement of assets and liabilities and the consolidated condensed schedule of investments as of 31 December 2015 and the consolidated statement of operations, the consolidated statement of changes in net assets and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Directors Responsibility for the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and with the requirements of Guernsey law.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as of 31 December 2015, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Report on other Legal and Regulatory Requirements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the company overview, the key figures, the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers report, the Strategic Report, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Report, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Directors Responsibilities Statement and page detailing the Directors, managers and advisers.
In our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
42 NEUBERGER BERMAN INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED CONTINUED Report on other Legal and Regulatory Requirements continued This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters which we are required to review under the Listing Rules: the Directors Statement set out on page 15 in relation to going concern.
As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern: the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
John Roche For and on behalf of  CI LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 18 April 2016 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 43
