Financials 155 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF OLD MUTUAL PLC ONLY For year ended 31 December 2015 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Old Mutual plc for the year ended 31 December 2015, which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes which include the reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to profit after tax.
In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as discussed below.
We have continued to perform procedures over taxation.
However, following the settlement of a number of tax exposures across the Group during 2015, we have not assessed taxation as one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
a Policyholder liabilities 75,909 million 2014: 79,679 million Risk vs 2014: Refer to page 113 Group Audit Committee Report, pages 224 to 227 accounting policy and the disclosures in notes A3, E and G6 to the financial statements.
The risk The main risk associated with policyholder liabilities is in respect of the insurance contracts within the life businesses in Emerging Markets and Old Mutual Wealth.
Judgement is required over the variety of uncertain future outcomes, including the estimation of economic assumptions, such as investment return, discount rates, and operating assumptions, such as expense, mortality and persistency and the policy for creating and releasing discretionary margins held within the South African business.
Our response Our procedures included testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls over the identification, measurement and management of the Groups calculation of insurance liabilities and evaluating the appropriateness of methodologies and assumptions used.
We involved our own internal actuarial specialists to assist us in challenging the assumptions used and the process followed for setting and updating these assumptions, particularly around investment return, persistency, expense and mortality and morbidity assumptions.
This included checking the appropriateness of the data used in managements analysis prepared to set the assumptions, in the context of our own industry knowledge, external data and our views of experience to date, an understanding of which was enhanced through our attendance at the Groups own Independent Review Committee meetings.
b Loans and advances 31,724 million, provisions for impairment 759 million 2014: 35,714 million, 857 million Risk vs 2014: Refer to page 113 Group Audit Committee Report, page 216 and pages 276 to 280 accounting policy and the disclosures in notes A3, E and G1 to the financial statements.
The risk The Groups loans and advances impairment assessment requires the exercise of judgement and the use of subjective assumptions.
Due to the significance of loans and advances and the related estimation uncertainty, this is considered to be a key audit risk within the banking divisions of the Group particularly on the unsecured and commercial lending portfolios at Nedbank and Old Mutual Finance within Emerging Markets.
Our response Our procedures included testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls over the loan approval, administration and monitoring processes.
We involved our own internal valuation specialists to assist us in assessing each of the portfolio loan loss provisioning models employed by the Group and comparing the Groups assumptions to externally available data in relation to key inputs such as historical default rates, recovery rates, collateral valuation, and economic growth rates.
We also performed detailed testing over the specific provisions held against loans and advances, by inspecting latest correspondence and Credit Committee minutes, challenging assumptions where relevant and assessing collateral values.
We also attended the Nedbank Credit Committee meetings.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Financials 156 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF OLD MUTUAL PLC ONLY CONTINUED For year ended 31 December 2015 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued c Goodwill and intangibles 3,276 million 2014:2,763 million Risk vs 2014: Refer to page 113 Group Audit Committee Report, pages 239 to 240 and 242 to 243 accounting policy and the disclosures in notes A3 and H1 to the financial statements.
The risk Goodwill and intangible assets both acquired and internally generated represent 2.5% of total assets of the Group and the determination of their recoverable amount is complex and typically requires a high level of judgement, taking into account the different economic environments in which the Group operates.
The most significant judgements arise over the forecast cash flows and the discount rate applied in the value-in-use valuation models.
Our response Our procedures included challenging the cash flow forecasts and the corresponding assumptions, such as discount rates and growth rates, applied by the Group in the consideration of potential impairment of intangible assets, based on our understanding of the relevant business and the industry and economic environment in which it operates.
Sensitivity analyses were also performed on the key assumptions in Old Mutual Wealth and the OMSEA cash generating unit in Emerging Markets.
We compared forecasts to business plans and also previous forecasts to actual results to assess the performance of the business and the accuracy of forecasting and considered the appropriateness of the scenarios used, in the context of our wider business understanding.
We involved our own valuation specialists to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group, in particular those relating to discount rates, and growth rates, with reference to our own independent expectations, which were based on our industry knowledge and experience.
For all of the risk areas set out above, we assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the relevant financial statement items to changes in the respective key assumptions appropriately reflect the associated risks and comply with the requirements of relevant accounting standards.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 84 million 2014: 80 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of normalised Group profit before taxation of 1,663 million 2014: 1,605 million.
This represents the Groups earnings before taxation from continuing operations excluding the effects of short-term market volatility, the impact of strategic choices and inorganic activity, and returns on significant one-off investments.
Materiality represents 5% 2014: 5% of normalised Group profit before tax.
We reported to the Group Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 4 million 2014: 4 million in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Each of the Groups six business units, being Emerging Markets, Old Mutual Wealth, Nedbank, Institutional Asset Management, Bermuda and Group Head Office businesses, were subjected to audits for Group reporting purposes.
The component audit teams at each of the business units undertook their own scoping exercises, with oversight from the Group team, to gain sufficient audit coverage to support their own reporting to the Group team.
The component teams performed procedures on those items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
Our work covered 96% 2014: 93% of total Group revenues: 98% 2014: 99% of Group profit before tax: and 94% 2014: 92% of total Group assets.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved each component materiality, which ranged from 30 million to 50 million 2014: 32 million to 65 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
To support the audit instructions sent to our component teams, the Group audit team visited five 2014: five component locations in South Africa, the US, Bermuda and elsewhere in the UK for planning and risk assessment meetings and maintained regular communication with the auditors at these locations throughout the audit cycle to discuss work progress and identify matters of relevance to our audit of the Group financial statements.
At these visits and meetings, the status of any issues being reported to the Group audit team was discussed in detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
The Senior Statutory Auditor, in conjunction with other senior staff in the Group audit team, also attended Audit Committee meetings held at the significant components to understand key risks and audit issues at a component level which may affect the Group financial statements.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Financials 157 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The Directors viability statement on page 122, concerning the principal risks, their management and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Group continuing in operation over the three years to 31 December 2018: or The disclosures in note A1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or The Group Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Group Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The Directors statements, set out on page 122, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 154, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Philip Smart Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 11 March 2016 OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
