Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of OneSavings Bank plc only These recurring risks were as follows: Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Loan Impairment 27.3m, 2014: 26.0m We have audited the financial statements of OneSavings Bank Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 93 plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 88 accounting policy and pages 88 to 92 financial disclosures to 92.
In our opinion: Movement in significance: none.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the The risk This is a key judgemental area due to the level state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as of subjectivity inherent in estimating the recoverability of at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year loan balances, as lower levels of lending historically have then ended: provided the Group with little historical experience to the Group financial statements have been properly predict the likelihood of these loans falling into arrears.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union The Group identifies specific mortgage loan cases for IFRSs as adopted by the EU : individual impairment assessment based on the size and the parent company financial statements have been nature of the loan, and the current level of arrears.
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Impairment requirements are determined based on estimated the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of future cash flows discounted to present value at the rate the Companies Act 2006: and inherent in the loan.
This is a highly manual process, with a the financial statements have been prepared in accordance number of data inputs and assumptions including the cost of with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as obtaining and selling the property, probable sale proceeds and regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS any rental income prior to sale.
An assessment is performed collectively on all other loans for 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement impairment, with the key assumptions being the probability The starting point for our audit was a consideration of of an account falling into arrears and subsequently defaulting, the inherent risks to the Groups business model and how the market valuations of collateral provided and the estimated these have been mitigated.
This included understanding time and cost to sell any property repossessed by the Group.
the strength of the Groups capital and liquidity position, Due to the majority of the acquired portfolios being serviced the diversification of assets, the flexibility and tenor of its by third parties, this requires data inputs from a number of balance sheet and the management of its cost base.
assessed and challenged the inherent risks with reference to: independent economic forecasts and commentary: The assumptions noted above differ across the Groups loan the views of our specialists in a number of areas including portfolios of residential lending comprising first charge, bank regulation, IT and tax: second charge and shared ownership lending, Buy-to-Let the views of the Prudential Regulatory Authority and the and SME lending, development finance, and personal loans, Financial Conduct Authority: and reflecting the diverse nature of lending performed by the the significant changes taking place in banking regulation Group and different characteristics of each book.
limited historic information and sensitivity of the impairment assessments to these assumptions, there is a risk that actual We also considered the Groups control environment and in experience will differ from the Groups current expectations.
particular whether its systems were processing transactions completely and faithfully, and included appropriate controls The increased lending in recent years has been at a time of designed to prevent fraud.
Our work included testing the key historically low interest rates, which may distort customer controls over the processing of transactions and the key behaviour and loss experience data for use in future inter-system and bank reconciliations.
assumptions, particularly if interest rates are to increase in coming years.
Similarly, the reduction in mortgage interest These assessments enabled us to form a judgement on relief to landlords on Buy-to-Let properties may alter future going concern and also highlighted the key areas of financial loan performance in this sector, namely repayment and statement risk on which our audit has focused.
By looking arrears rates, compared to past trends.
at both broad risk themes across the Group and particular concerns within the business, we were able to calibrate The Group implements a number of forbearance procedures our work to financial statements risk more precisely.
on selected loans in arrears, such as restructuring of a loan or capitalisation of arrears balances.
As this is a manual process, Having addressed the going concern assumption and there is a risk that these measures are not appropriately taken whether the Groups database of transactions was a into consideration when calculating the required provisions, as sufficient underlying basis for the accounts, we considered the apparent improvement in the arrears on the loans could the significant risks of material misstatement in decisions result in a lower impairment provision if the loans are not over loan impairments and the recognition of interest income identified as forborne.
through the Groups effective interest rate calculations.
As described on pages 62 to 65 these are also areas that Our response Our audit procedures included, evaluating have been focused on by the Groups Audit Committee.
and testing the key controls over the impairment provisioning process, including controls over loans both In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial collectively and specifically provided for, such as credit statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the committee review of impairment.
greatest effect on our audit were deemed to be the same as those assessed in 2014, with no new significant risks identified.
86 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of OneSavings Bank plc only continued In relation to loans specifically provided for, we tested Due to the relatively low levels of historic organic lending in the completeness of the loans identified by the Group comparison to the significant recent growth, the Group has as high risk through a consideration of all loans for risk limited information available from which to assess trends in factors such as magnitude, arrears and previous loan prepayment, redemption and product transfers, resulting in restructures.
For the cases specifically provided for, increased subjectivity to these assumptions, as detailed we re-performed the calculations of impairment and patterns of customer behaviour have not been clearly agreed the key data inputs to third party documentation: established from which to estimate future customer behaviour namely projected selling costs to valuation reports, rental and performance.
income to tenancy agreements and discount rates to the interest rate of the loan.
The key judgemental areas of the As further portfolios are purchased by the Group, there is a calculation were assessed as the forecast sale value of need to ensure the consistency and accuracy of the effective the collateral and the time to sale of the property, which interest rate calculations across the individual models.
were tested for reasonableness through stress testing.
A number of the acquired portfolios are serviced by third parties, leading to data inputs from a number of sources.
Our testing of the loans collectively provided for included re-performance of the model calculations and agreement Our response Our audit procedures in relation to loans of the data inputs in the model to the mortgage data originated by the Group included the testing of key system and third party reports in order to assess the controls in relation to the accuracy of data inputs from accuracy of performance of the collective impairment the mortgage systems into the effective interest rate model.
The assumptions inherent in the model were critically models and the consistency of methodology and assessed against our understanding of the Group, its application across each of the loan portfolios owned by recent performance and industry developments.
assessed the methodology used by the Group to calculate the propensity of accounts with different arrears profiles to We assessed the reasonableness of the models key move both in to and out of default, and recalculated these assumptions, including interest rates, product structures and rates based on the Groups actual historic experience.
These expected lives by performing stress tests, considering historic actual rates were compared to those assumed by the Group to experience, and benchmarking against assumptions observed assess the reasonableness of the rates used in the collective at similar entities.
We also assessed the mathematical impairment assessment.
The valuation, forced sale discount accuracy of models through re-performance of the model and costs to sell the collateral, being the expected recovery calculations, and checked the effective interest rates used on sale of the property, were stress tested to assess the within the monthly calculations agreed to the models.
sensitivity of the impairment provision to these assumptions.
Our testing of acquired loan books included the procedures In addition, taking into account the specific types of lending detailed above, and further procedures including regression carried out by the Group, we benchmarked the Groups testing to identify any significant deviations from the original assumptions such as forced sale discounts and costs to sell forecast cash flows.
We also considered whether any catch collateral and provision coverage rates against other similar up adjustments were required on portfolios where actual cash institutions to assess both the level of the impairment flow experience has differed from that originally predicted.
For provision in comparison to industry norms and the continuing those loan books where catch up adjustments were recorded, appropriateness of the assumptions used.
We also evaluated we assessed the appropriateness of the payment assumptions the arrears monitoring process, through monitoring credit used in the future forecast cash flow calculations, by trends in the portfolio, to assess whether emerging trends are comparing to payment rates previously experienced.
reflected in the provision level.
For the acquired loan books, we also considered the Groups Other procedures performed included an assessment of control environment in respect of its oversight and governance forbearance activity to check that data arising from these of the mortgage service providers.
We visited each of the concessions is accurately reflected in the impairment provision servicers for the mortgage books where these were not calculation.
The accuracy of the provision on the forborne administered by the Group to consider the adequacy of the loans was tested by checking that for each forborne loan, the control environment at these entities and to assess the uplift to the propensity to default assumption in the collective accuracy and consistency of the information provided by the impairment assessment was appropriately applied.
servicer companies to the Group.
Recognition of revenue on organic and acquired loans One loan book was acquired during the year, for which we 268.2m, 2014: 209.9m performed an assessment of the cash flow model.
We used Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 93 our internal modelling specialists to check the consistency of accounting policy and pages 88 to 92 financial disclosures the formulae used and to check the mathematical accuracy of Movement in significance: none the calculation, in order to determine whether the effective interest rate calculated was appropriate.
We also performed The risk The effective interest rate calculation, which an assessment of the composition of the loan portfolio to uses relevant interest rates, fees and costs, incorporates determine the reasonableness of the acquisition fair values assumptions around loan expected lives driven by and the total amounts recoverable.
estimations of loan repayment profiles and, in the case of acquired credit impaired mortgages, additional variables such as the purchase price and estimated recoverable values.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the In particular, we are required to report to you if: scope of our audit we have identified material inconsistencies between the Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors was set at 4,080,000 2014: 3,400,000, determined statement that they consider that the annual report and with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 102,000,000 2014: 68,000,000, of which it represents understandable and provides the information necessary 4.0% 2014: 5.0%.
for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 204,000, matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at all adequate accounting records have not been kept by the three of the Groups reporting components: the Prestige parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have sub-group, the InterBay sub-group and OSBIndia.
These not been received from branches not visited by us: or audits covered 100% of Group revenue, profit before the parent company financial statements and the part of tax and total assets.
The Group audit team instructed the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not component auditors as to the significant areas to be in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by the information to be reported back.
The Group audit law are not made: or team set component materiality at 3,570,000 for all we have not received all the information and explanations components, having regard to the size and risk profile of we require for our audit.
the Group across the components.
The audit of one of the three components was performed by component auditors Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: with the rest being performed by the Group audit team.
the directors statements, set out on page 84, in relation to Group instructions were provided to the component auditors, going concern and longer term viability: and and telephone conference meetings were also held.
At these the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were 50 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven discussed in more detail to ensure understanding.
provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Scope and responsibilities audited has been properly prepared in accordance with As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the Companies Act 2006: and Statement set out on page 84, the directors are responsible for the information given in the Strategic Report and the the preparation of the financial statements and Directors Report for the financial year for which the for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements financial statements.
is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of made solely to the companys members as a body and principalrisks is subject to important explanations and disclaimers Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have regarding our responsibilities, published on our website nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be the Viability Statement on page 42, concerning the principal read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
assessment and expectations of the Group continuing in operation over the 3 years to 31 December 2018: or Richard Gabbertas Senior Statutory Auditor the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor concerning the use of the going concern basis of Chartered Accountants accounting.
1 Sovereign Square 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on Sovereign Street which we are required to report by exception Leeds Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, LS1 4DA based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that 16 March 2016 contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
