GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion: n P2P Global Investments PLCs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: n the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: n the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and n the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: n the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position as at 31 December 2015: n the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: n the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows for the year then ended: n the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Shareholders Funds for the year then ended: and n the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview n Overall Group materiality: 8.7m which represents 1% of net assets.
Materiality n The audit scope was determined by reference to the net assets of the Parent Company and of its subsidiary.
The net assets of the Parent Company and its subsidiary were determined to be significant to the Group overall and therefore audit procedures were performed over the Audit scope Parent Company and its subsidiary.
n Valuation of investments reported at fair value through profit or loss.
Areas of focus n Valuation of loans reported at amortised cost less provisions for impairment.
n Risk of fraud in recognition of revenue.
34 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of Focus i Valuation of investments reported at fair value through profit or loss The Group holds investments reported at fair value through profit or loss directly and through its interest in Eaglewood SPV 1 LP.
These investments represent a material balance in the financial statements and the valuations of certain investments require estimates and significant judgements to be applied which are subjective.
The nature of these investments are unlisted equity investments, investments in funds, fixed income investments and listed equities.
The valuation methodology applied by management and our procedures are dependent on the underlying nature of the investments.
How our audit addressed the area of focus Investments in unlisted equities: The valuations used by the Group were based on the cost of investments, comparing values held against the cost of recent investments in the market and considering material company developments to determine whether these remained the appropriate fair values for the investments.
We used our own valuation specialists to evaluate and challenge the methodology used by the Group to value the unlisted equity investments.
We have considered the valuation inflexion points which would give cause for adjustments in value between transaction date and valuation date.
These inflexion points included recent transactions and whether these were on arms length terms.
Investments in funds: The procedures performed over investments in funds included assessing reports on internal controls prepared by the funds administrators, obtaining independent confirmation of the valuations and reviewing the audited financial statements of the funds.
Fixed income investments and equity investments: We independently valued the investments on a sample basis, using third party pricing sources, and compared these valuations to those used by the Group.
Having performed the procedures set out above, we found that the valuations of investments reported at fair value through profit or loss were supportable.
P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 35 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ii Valuation of loans reported at amortised cost less provisions for impairment Loans and receivables recorded at amortised cost represented a material balance in the financial statements.
They represent amounts lent to borrowers via peer to peer platforms.
The impairment provision relating to these loans is a key judgemental area for our audit due to the level of subjectivity inherent in estimating the provision.
In calculating its impairment provision, the Groups key assumption is the loan loss rates applied to accounts in arrears.
Due to the limited historical information available from the platforms on actual default patterns and loss emergence periods relating to the loans issued by the Group, there is a risk that the impairment provision does not appropriately reflect losses incurred.
How our audit addressed the area of focus We have assessed the reliability of loan information obtained from underlying peer to peer platforms through which the loans were originated by: n reconciling independent confirmations from the depositary to confirmations obtained from the platforms: n assessing the internal controls reports of the Groups depositary and administrator to identify any control deficiencies around the recording of loan drawdowns and repayments for the Group: and n performing detailed testing over loan information obtained from the platforms by agreeing loan principal and repayment amounts to loan agreements and bank statements on a sample basis.
We have assessed the accuracy of the unsecured loan impairment model by re-performing the calculations and agreeing data inputs, including loans split by arrears status, to platform reports.
We assessed the loan loss assumptions used in the impairment model by comparing to data on historical default rates recorded by the platforms, and also considering the specific performance analysis of the Groups portfolio.
We critically assessed the potential for understatement of the impairment provision by applying banking industry data on loss emergence periods.
We found that the valuation of loans and receivables at amortised cost less provision for impairment was supportable and within a reasonable range of outcomes.
iii Revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve revenue growth in line with the objective of the Group.
We focused on the recognition policy adopted by the Group, and on the accuracy and existence of revenue from interest income from loans and the gains and losses on investments held at fair value.
How our audit addressed the area of focus We have assessed the reliability of the interest income data obtained from the underlying platforms by agreeing, for a sample of loans, the key inputs for the effective interest rate calculation to underlying loan agreements.
We have re-performed the calculation of interest income and compared the methodology used to the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
We reviewed the internal control reports of the Groups administrator and depositary to identify any control deficiencies relating to the recording of interest income.
We tested the cash reconciliations produced by the depositary in order to obtain supporting evidence for loan interest repayments.
"For unrealised gains and losses on investments held at fair value, we assessed the valuation methodology and performed specific tests as detailed under the area of focus Valuation of investments reported at fair value through profit or loss"" to ascertain whether these gains and losses were appropriately determined."
For realised gains and losses, we tested the gain or loss for a sample of investments by agreeing amounts to bank statements for disposal proceeds, agreeing the book cost for investments to accounting records and re-performing the calculation of the gain or loss recorded.
We have also performed testing over revenue journal entries, using a risk-based approach.
We assessed the nature and characteristics of revenue to determine appropriateness of income and capital items in line with the requirements set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice for Investment Trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies.
We did not identify any material misstatements to report to those charged with governance.
36 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group comprises a Parent Company and its subsidiary, managing a portfolio of investments and loan assets.
The Group holds a significant investment in a special purpose vehicle, Eaglewood SPV I LP, which is not consolidated as the Directors have concluded that the Group does not exercise control over the special purpose vehicle, as disclosed within note 2 a of the financial statements.
The investment is accounted for as a single line investment at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the results of the Parent Company and its subsidiary.
The Group's accounting is delegated by the Directors to the Administrator who maintains the Groups own accounting records, operates controls and reports to both the Investment Manager and the Directors.
We determined that the Parent Company andits subsidiaryrequired an audit of their complete financial information for the purposes of our audit of the Group financial statements as the net assets and results of each entity were considered to be significant to the overall performance of the Group.
All of theentities were audited by the Group engagement team and therefore the involvement of component auditors was not required.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 8.7m 2014: 2.0m How we determined it 1% of net assets Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate basis for our audit We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.4m 2014: 0.1m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement, set out on page 18, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors Statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 37 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: n the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and n the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 20 to 25 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: n Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
n the statement given by the Directors on page 32, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
n the section of the Annual Report on pages 26 to 27, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions to report.
Code, describing the work of the Audit and Valuation Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Valuation Committee.
38 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: n the Directors confirmation on page 14 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing or to draw attention to.
the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
n the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add managed or mitigated.
n the Directors explanation on page 15 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period or to draw attention to.
they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors Statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: n we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or n adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or n the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 39 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC Corporate Governance Statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 32, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: n whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: n the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and n the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Natasha McMillan Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 21 April 2016 40 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
