INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 135 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT C1 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT To the members of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Opinion on financial statements of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Movements in Equity and the related notes 1 to 64.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 3 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
PAGE 136 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Independent Auditors Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statements in section A4 that the Group is a going concern and in A4 on the Groups longer-term viability.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in section A4 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in section B6.5 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in section A4 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors' explanation in section A4 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 137 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below, which are the same risks identified as in the prior year, are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment provisioning for loans to customers The assessment of the Groups calculation of provisions for We used internal IT specialists to test the controls over the impairment losses against purchased and own originated loans loan administration systems and the manner in which data and receivables is complex and requires management to make is extracted from these systems into the models used to significant judgements.
Key assumptions include determining determine impairment.
when a loss event has occurred and expectations of future cash flows arising from customers, including receiver of rent We have tested the controls that the Group has in place to cases and the realisation of any security held.
Changes to these manage the risk of inappropriate assumptions being used assumptions can have a material impact on the impairment within impairment provisioning.
We have also assessed provision.
We therefore focus our work on assessing the the Groups controls in place to identify customers in appropriateness of these assumptions.
The carrying value of the Groups loans to customers prior to We challenged the appropriateness of managements key impairment provisioning is 10,062.4m 2014: 9,255.9m.
assumptions used in the impairment calculations for loans and Against this, an impairment provision of 111.0m 2014: receivables.
This involved assessing the assumptions related 114.8m is provided, as disclosed within note 32 to the to future cash flows, including receiver of rent cases and financial statements.
realisation of security for appropriateness in comparison to current and forecast external market and economic data as The Group considers impairment provisioning for financial well as the Groups previous and recent experience.
assets to be a critical accounting estimate.
This is disclosed within note 5 with the associated Group accounting policy We considered the appropriateness of when a loss event has stated within note 3. deemed to have occurred by comparing the Groups loss event definition to other organisations with similar asset classes, as well as previous and recent entity specific experience of asset performance.
Sensitivity analysis was also performed in relation to the key assumptions in order to assess the potential for management bias.
Revenue recognition Revenue recognition and specifically the application of the We used internal IT specialists to test the controls over the requirement in IAS 39 Financial Instruments to recognise loan administration systems and the manner in which data income on purchased Idem assets and originated loans over is extracted from these systems into the models used to their estimated behavioural lives using an effective interest determine the effective interest rate and performed rate method is a complex area, requiring management to walk-through testing of the models to confirm that they are make significant judgements.
The most critical and sensitive working as intended.
assumption is the estimated behavioural life applied to each loan, which is initially estimated at inception and directly We have tested controls that the Group has in place to manage impacts the anticipated timing of cash flows.
Changes to this the risk of inappropriate behavioural life assumptions being assumption could significantly impact the level of income used within effective interest rate models.
recognised in any given period.
We therefore focus our work on assessing the appropriateness of estimated behavioural lives.
We challenged managements assumptions in respect of cash flow estimates for both purchased Idem assets and originated The effective interest rate movement on the Groups loans loans, focusing on the timing and level of early redemptions to customers during the year is 59.0m 2014: 50.9m, as and settlements, which directly impact estimated behavioural disclosed within note 31 to the financial statements.
In order to assess for appropriateness, we compared the represents the movement in both the purchased Idem assets forecast level of early redemptions and settlements to current and originated loans.
and forecast external market and economic data as well as the Groups recent redemption and settlement level experience.
The Group considers effective interest rates to be a critical accounting estimate.
This is considered within note 5 with the Sensitivity analysis was also performed in relation to the associated Group accounting policy stated within note 3. key assumptions in order to assess the potential for management bias.
PAGE 138 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Independent Auditors Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Retirement benefit obligation valuation The key assumptions used to calculate the present value of We assessed the competence and objectivity of the Groups the retirement benefit obligation are inflation rates, discount external actuarial specialist.
Each of these assumptions requires significant management judgement.
We therefore focus our We evaluated the appropriateness of the principal actuarial work on assessing the appropriateness of these assumptions.
assumptions used in the calculation of the retirement benefit obligation using market data from our in-house actuarial The retirement benefit obligation is 21.5m 2014: 17.3m, as specialists detailing the range of assumptions used as at disclosed within note 52 to the financial statements.
The Group considers the retirement benefit obligation valuation We also performed sensitivity analysis over the key assumptions to be a critical accounting estimate.
This is disclosed within note in order to assess the potential for management bias.
5 with the associated Group accounting policy stated within note 3.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed in section B4.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 10.0m 2014: 9.2m, which is 7.5% 2014: 7.5% of pre-tax profit, and represents 1.0% 2014: 1.0% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 201,000 2014: 184,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope on the principal trading subsidiaries within the Groups three reportable segments which account for 100% of the Groups profit before tax and net assets.
All entities are managed, controlled and audited from the head office by the Group audit team.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work over the principal trading subsidiaries comprised statutory audits which were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity, and much lower than that for the Group described above.
Our component materiality for the principal trading subsidiaries ranged from 130,000 to 5.0m.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 139 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Statement Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to information in the you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
PAGE 140 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Independent Auditors Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement section B8, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
PETER BIRCH Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Birmingham, United Kingdom 24 November 2015 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 141 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT D THE ACCOUNTS Showing the financial position, results and cash flows of the Group and the Company prepared in accordance with IFRS and UK law D1 The accounts PAGE 143 D1.1 Consolidated income statement PAGE 144 D1.2 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income PAGE 145 D1.3 Consolidated balance sheet PAGE 146 D1.4 Company balance sheet PAGE 147 D1.5 Consolidated cash flow statement PAGE 148 D1.6 Company cash flow statement PAGE 148 D1.7 Statement of movements in equity PAGE 149 D2 Notes to the accounts PAGE 150 PAGE 142 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2015
