PIGIT pp36 58 PIGIT pp36 58 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 36 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the shareholders of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Opinion on financial statements of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt and the related notes 1 to 21.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on pages 20 and 21 that the Company is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant findings in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatements.
There were no changes to the risks from the previous audit report.
The description of risks below should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 29 and 30.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
36 PIGIT pp36 58 PIGIT pp36 58 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 37 FINANCIAL RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT FINDINGS RESPONDED TO THE RISK Valuation of investments The valuation of investment at 1.1 billion We documented and assessed the No findings were identified from our as at 31 March 2015 held by the Company design and implementation of testing performed on the service is the most quantitatively significant balance controls in place to value the organisation control reports and on the balance sheet and also the main investment portfolio.
We have also assessment of the related service driver of the Companys performance and assessed whether the service auditors.
auditors were professionally competent and that the scope of the As a result of the quantitative significance controls tested were appropriate to of the balance, there is a risk that the give us assurance over the risk impact of any investments within the identified.
portfolio that are not actively traded or where the prices quoted are not reflective We agreed the valuation of 100% We did not identify any differences of fair value may result in a material of the listed investment portfolio to that exceeded 1% between the misstatement.
Any prices used by the Company for differences over 1% were valuing its listed investments and the Refer to note 1 c for the accounting investigated further.
independent pricing sources used in policy on investments.
Details of the our valuation testing.
investments are disclosed on pages 15 In order to confirm investments are and 16.
No findings were identified during actively traded, we verified trading our volume of listed trade analysis activity and the volume of listed one month after the year end.
investments for one month after the year end.
We assessed prices for unquoted We found that the valuation investments, as determined by the methodology used in the sole pricing committee, for unquoted investment for Napo reasonableness and agreed all the Pharmaceuticals Inc was reasonable, valuation basis to third party sources.
based on Duff and Phelps valuation report, which was priced at the lowest price the shares had traded during the year to 31 March 2015.
Ownership of investments Given that the Company holds an We documented and assessed the No findings were identified from our investment portfolio of 1.1 billion as at design and implementation of testing performed on the service 31 March 2015, there is an increased risk controls over ownership of organisation control reports and that the effect of any investments not held investments.
We have also assessed assessment of the related service in the name of the Company or where the whether the service auditors were auditors.
Company did not have ownership of the professionally competent and that investments may result in a material the scope of the controls tested misstatement.
were appropriate to give us assurance over the risk identified.
Refer to note 1 c for the accounting policy on investments.
Details of the We tested the ownership of No findings were identified from our investments are disclosed on pages 15 investments by verifying 100% of testing of the custodian confirmation.
and 16. the portfolio holdings at year end to an independent confirmation from the custodian and reconciling the confirmation to the Companys accounting records.
Any differences were investigated further.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 37 PIGIT pp36 58 PIGIT pp36 58 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 38 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the shareholders of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc continued RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT FINDINGS RESPONDED TO THE RISK Accuracy of performance fee The performance fee of 5.28 million is We documented and assessed the No findings were identified from our accrued for the year ended 31 March 2015 design and implementation of testing performed on the service because the performance of the Company controls over the calculation of the organisation control reports and exceeded the performance of the FTSE performance fee.
We have also assessment of the related service All-Share Index on a high-water mark basis.
assessed whether the service auditors.
There are various inputs to the performance auditors were professionally fee calculation model, and it has changed competent and that the scope of during the year, hence there is a greater risk the controls tested were appropriate for errors.
In addition, the calculation may to give us assurance over the risk not be in line with the Investment identified.
Management Agreement and accounting We checked the performance fee There were no findings from our policy.
calculation to obtain assurance that testing of the performance fee.
Refer to note 1 f for the accounting policy the performance fee is in agreement for performance fees.
Details of the with the Investment Management performance fee is disclosed in note 3.
Revenue recognition Dividend income of 37.6 million for the We documented and assessed the No findings were identified from our year ended 31 March 2015 from equity design and implementation of testing performed on the service investments are accounted for on an controls over revenue recognition organisation control reports and ex-dividend basis.
and managements monitoring of assessment of the related service completeness and allocation of auditors.
There is a risk that capital returns can be revenue between revenue and incorrectly recognised as income in the capital.
We have also assessed financial statements and that could impact whether the service auditors were the level of distribution required by professionally competent and that investment trust regulations.
the scope of the controls tested Refer to note 1 e for the revenue were appropriate to give us accounting policy.
Details of revenue assurance over the risk identified.
We obtained the corporate action No findings were obtained from our listing for the year, and for a sample testing on the completeness and of such actions, reviewed allocation of revenue between management assessment and revenue and capital.
underlying information on corporate actions according to the third party corporate action notification.
We reviewed the treatment of the recognition criteria and also allocation treatment for any special dividends or other income received in the year.
For a sample of investments, we No findings were obtained from our obtained ex-dividend dates and rates cut off testing on revenue for dividends declared during the recognition.
year and agreed the amounts to the dividend entitlements earned and the general ledger.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 9,784,000 2014: 8,960,000, which has been determined using approximately 1% 2014: 1% of shareholders funds.
38 PIGIT pp36 58 PIGIT pp36 58 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 39 FINANCIAL We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 195,000 2014: 179,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We did not identify any such misstatements.
We also reported to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As the accounting is performed by service organisations, we obtained an understanding of how the Company uses service organisations in its operations and evaluated the design and implementation of relevant controls at the Company that relate to the services provided by service organisations.
We reviewed the latest reports on internal controls from the service organisations and contacted them directly to obtain specific information we needed to conduct our audit.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the annual financial report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual financial report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39 PIGIT pp36 58 PIGIT pp36 58 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 40 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the shareholders of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc continued In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Stuart McLaren Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 2 June 2015 Electronic Publication The annual financial report is published on www.
co. uk pigit which is the Companys section of the Managers website.
The work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
