KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2130 AGM 3133 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC OUR AUDIT OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our In our opinion: responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state financial statements in accordance with applicable law and of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 April International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the financial statements have been properly prepared in Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and European Union and as applied in accordance with the disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as This includes an assessment of: regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the whether the accounting policies applied are appropriate IAS Regulation.
to the Group and Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates We have audited the financial statements of Personal Assets made by the Directors: and Trust PLC for the year ended 30 April 2015 which comprise the Group Income Statement, Group and Company Statements of the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Financial Position, the Group and Company Statements of In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Changes in Equity, the Group and Company Statements of information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify Cash Flow and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements framework that has been applied in their preparation is and to identify any information that is apparently materially applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a for our report.
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies The Group consists of the Company and a single wholly Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might owned subsidiary, which are both subject to a full scope audit state to the Companys members those matters we are required by the Group audit team.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this The risks included in the table below represent those risks of report, or for the opinions we have formed.
material misstatement that have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy and approach for the year ended 30 April RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR 2015 including the allocation of resources and the directing of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities efforts of the engagement team.
The table also includes our Statement set out on pages 21 and 22, the Directors are audit response to each of these risks: Risk identified Our response We agreed 100% of the year end prices of the investments to an The valuation of the assets held in the investment independent source: portfolio is incorrect or proper legal title to these assets is not held by the Company.
The investment We agreed 100% of the investment holdings to 3rd party reports portfolio at 30 April 2015, as disclosed in note 8 to from the Companys custodian: the financial statements, is valued at 593.9m 2014 We read the reports produced by the Depositary in respect of their 541.2m and all investments in the current and duty to safeguard the assets of the Company: and prior year are designated as level 1 investments in the We physically inspected the Companys holding of gold bullion held fair value hierarchy.
The income from investments recognised by the We agreed a sample of dividends paid on investments held to an Company during the year is incorrectly recorded, independent pricing source and recalculated income recorded: impacting the extent of the profits available to fund We agreed 100% of accrued dividends to an independent source: dividend distributions to shareholders.
We reviewed material dividend receipts and confirmed that no The income from investments for the year, as special dividends were received during the year: and disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, is We re-performed the calculation of bond amortisation on inflation 9.3m 2014 11.2m.
linked fixed income securities on a sample basis.
Page 29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION We have defined the concept of materiality below.
We are required by the ISAs UK and Ireland, the Companies In accordance with the scope of our audit, we define Act 2006 and the Listing Rules to report to you by exception materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement if certain matters are identified during the course of our audit.
that, individually or in the aggregate, in light of the These matters are listed below and we have nothing to report surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be expected to in respect of any of these matters.
influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: We apply the concept of materiality for the purposes of obtaining sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that materially inconsistent with the information in the audited the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
financial statements: or For this reason, we also define a separate performance apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially materiality threshold which reflects our tolerance for inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company misstatement in an individual account balance and is set as a acquired in the course of performing our audit: or proportion of our overall materiality.
Our objective in setting the performance materiality threshold is to identify the amount of testing required in respect of each In particular, we are required to consider whether we have balance to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge that the aggregate of any uncorrected and undetected acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that misstatements in the financial statements as a whole exceeds they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and our materiality level.
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit We determined materiality for the Company to be 6.1 million committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
2014: 5.73 million which is one per cent of total equity.
We have derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to of total equity as we consider it to be the most important you if, in our opinion: financial metric on which shareholders would judge the adequate accounting records have not been kept, or performance of the Company.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from We determined performance materiality for the Company branches not visited by us: or should be 75% of materiality, namely 4.57 million 2014: 50% the parent company financial statements and the part of of materiality namely 2.86 million.
We determined a lower the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not performance materiality level in 2014 was appropriate in in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or response to the prior year adjustment reported in the 2013 financial statements.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or In addition, we agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report any audit differences in excess of 305,000 2014: we have not received all the information and explanations 287,000, as well as any differences below that threshold that, we require for our audit: or in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
a Corporate Governance Report has not been prepared by the Company.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: In our opinion: the Directors statement, set out on page 27, in relation to the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be going concern: and audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating the Companies Act 2006: to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the information given in the Strategic Report and the the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our Directors Report for the financial year for which the review.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Susan Dawe Senior Statutory Auditor Statement set out on pages 26 to 27 with respect to for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor internal control and risk management systems in relation Edinburgh to financial reporting processes and about share capital 5 June 2015 structures is consistent with the financial statements.
