44 I In nd dep epen end den ent t A Au ud di it to or rs s R Rep epo or rt t Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc We conducted our audit of the financial statements at Report on the Financial Statements HSBC Securities Services the Administrator to Our opinion whom the Manager has, with the consent of the In our opinion, Polar Capital Technology Trust plcs Directors, delegated the provision of certain financial statements the financial statements : administrative functions.
give a true and fair view of the state of the companys We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account affairs as at 30 April 2015 and of its net profit and cash the types of investments within the company, the flows for the year then ended: involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry have been properly prepared in accordance with in which the company operates.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Areas of focus have been prepared in accordance with the Investment income requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Valuation and existence of investments What we have audited T Th he s e sc co op pe of o e of ou ur a r au ud di it a t an nd o d ou ur a r ar re ea as of f s of fo oc cu us s Polar Capital Technology Trust plcs financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with comprise of: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the Balance Sheet as at 30 April 2015: the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year We designed our audit by determining materiality and then ended: assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the directors made subjective judgements, for example in the Statement of Changes in Equity the year then respect of significant accounting estimates that involved ended: and making assumptions and considering future events that the notes to the financial statements, which include are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also the significant accounting policies and other addressed the risk of management override of internal explanatory information.
controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material Certain required disclosures have been presented misstatement due to fraud.
elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossThe risks of material misstatement that had the greatest referenced from the financial statements and are effect on our audit, including the allocation of our identified as audited.
resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our The financial reporting framework that has been applied audit to address these specific areas in order to provide in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any law and IFRSs adopted by the European Union.
comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list Our audit approach of all risks identified by our audit.
O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w Materiality Overall materiality: 7,932,000 which represents 1% of net assets.
Audit scope The company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages Polar Capital LLP the Manager to manage its assets.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 82 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus In Inv five es st tm me en nt i t in nc co om me e We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for Refer to page 90 Accounting Policies and page 95 compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and Notes to the Financial Statements.
performed testing to check that income had been accounted for in accordance with this stated accounting policy.
We did ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in not identify any misstatements through our work.
income recognition because of the pressure management We understood and assessed the design and implementation may feel to achieve capital growth in line with the objective of key controls surrounding income recognition.
We focused on the accuracy and completeness of dividend In addition, we tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend income recognition and its presentation in the Income rates from a sample of investments to independent third party Statement as set out in the requirements of The Association sources.
No misstatements were identified by our testing.
of Investment Companies Statement of Recommended To test for completeness, we tested that the appropriate Practice the AIC SORP.
dividends had been received in the year by reference to independent data of dividends declared for a sample of This is because incomplete or inaccurate income could have investment holdings in the portfolio.
Our testing did not a material impact on the companys net asset value.
We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the income and capital return columns of the Income Statement in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
Our testing did not identify any special dividends.
V Va al lu uat ati io on a n an nd e d ex xi is st te en nc ce of i e of in nv five es st tm me en nt ts s We tested the valuation of the listed investments by Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, page 92 agreeing the prices used in the valuation to independent Accounting Policies and page 99 Notes to the third party sources.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
The investment portfolio at 30 April 2015 principally comprised listed equity investments and totalled We agreed the existence of investments to an independent 770 million.
confirmation from the Custodian, HSBC Bank plc.
We focused on the valuation and existence of investments We have completed our audit procedures in this area and because investments represent the principal element of the have no matters to report to you.
net asset value as disclosed on the Balance Sheet in the financial statements.
H Ho ow w w we t e ta ai il lo or re ed t d th he a e au ud di it s t sc co op pe e We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the types of investments within the company, the involvement of the Manager and Administrator, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the company operates.
The Manager outsources certain accounting, administrative functions to the Administrator.
As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment in place at both the Manager and the Administrator to the extent relevant to our audit.
This assessment of the operating and accounting structure in place at both organisations involved obtaining and reading the relevant control reports issued by the independent auditor of the Manager and the Administrator in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work.
We then identified those key controls at the Administrator on which we could place reliance to provide audit evidence.
We also assessed the gap period of 4 months between the period covered by the Administrators controls report and the year-end of the company.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements, including whether we needed to perform additional testing in respect of those key controls to support our substantive work.
For the purposes of our audit, we determined that additional testing of controls in place at the Administrators was not required because additional substantive testing was performed.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 83 44 I In nd dep epen end den ent t A Au ud di it to or rs s R Rep epo or rt t Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 2014 continued M Ma at te er rial iali it ty y Other Required Reporting The scope of our audit was influenced by our application Consistency of other information of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for C Com omp pa an ni ie es s A Ac ct t 2 20 00 06 6 opi opin ni ion on materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, In our opinion the information given in the Strategic helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to year for which the financial statements are prepared is evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually consistent with the financial statements.
and on the financial statements as a whole.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Based on our professional judgement, we determined Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you materiality for the financial statements as a whole if, in our opinion: as follows: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to Overall 7,932,000. materially inconsistent with the report arising materiality information in the audited financial from this statements: or How we 1% of net assets.
determined it apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a inconsistent with, our knowledge benchmark generally accepted auditing practice for of the company acquired in the applied investment trust audits, in the absence of course of performing our audit: or indicators that an alternative benchmark otherwise misleading.
would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and the statement given by the directors We have no consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
on page 80, in accordance with exceptions to provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate report arising We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would Governance Code the Code, that from this they consider the Annual Report responsibility.
report to them misstatements identified during our taken as a whole to be fair, balanced audit above 397,000 as well as misstatements below and understandable and provides the that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for information necessary for members qualitative reasons.
to assess the companys performance, business model and G Go oin ing g c co on nce cer rn n strategy is materially inconsistent Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the with our knowledge of the company directors statement, set out on page 80, in relation to acquired in the course of performing going concern.
We have nothing to report having our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on We have no page 71, as required by provision exceptions to As noted in the directors statement, the directors have C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the report arising concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the companys work of the Audit Committee does from this financial statements using the going concern basis of not appropriately address matters responsibility.
The going concern basis presumes that the communicated by us to the Audit company has adequate resources to remain in operation, Committee.
and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 84 A Ad fide eq qu ua ac cy of a y of ac cc co ou un nt ti in ng r g re ec co or rd ds a s an nd i d in nf fo or rm mat ati io on n This report, including the opinions, has been prepared a an nd e d ex xp pl la an nat ati io on ns r s re ec ce ei iv five ed d for and only for the companys members as a body in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies to you if, in our opinion: Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any we have not received all the information and other purpose or to any other person to whom this report explanations we require for our audit: or is shown or into whose hands it may come save where adequate accounting records have not been kept, or expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received What an audit of financial statements involves from branches not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts the financial statements and the part of the Directors and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to Remuneration Report to be audited are not in give reasonable assurance that the financial statements agreement with the accounting records and returns.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently Directors remuneration applied and adequately disclosed: D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re em mu un ne er rat ati io on R n Re ep po or rt t C Com omp pa an ni ie es s A Ac ct t 2 20 00 06 6 opi opin ni ion on the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration made by the directors: and Report to be audited has been properly prepared in the overall presentation of the financial statements.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing O Ot th he er C r Co om mp pa an ni ie es A s Ac ct 2 t 20 00 06 r 6 re ep po or rt ti in ng g the directors judgements against available evidence, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report forming our own judgements, and evaluating the to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors disclosures in the financial statements.
remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no We test and examine information, using sampling and exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider C Co or rp po or rat ate g e go ov five er rn na an nc ce s e st tat ate em me en nt t necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK combination of both.
We have nothing to report In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial having performed our review.
information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and Responsibilities for the Financial to identify any information that is apparently materially Statements and the Audit incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Our responsibilities and those of the directors knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Responsibilities set out on page 80, the directors are misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the responsible for the preparation of the financial implications for our report.
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Allan Mcgrath Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of  LLP Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the financial statements in accordance with applicable Edinburgh law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical 24 July 2015 Standards for Auditors.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 85
