188 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Financial statements Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: of Provident Financial plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and ofthe parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied inaccordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financialstatements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated and parent company statement of cash flows, the consolidated and parent company statement of changes in shareholders equity, the statement of accounting policies, the financial and capital risk management section and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern and the directors assessment As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding of the principal risks that would threaten the theappropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting set out on pages 111 and solvency or liquidity of the company 112 tothe financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability ofthecompany contained within the strategic report.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 59 that they have carried out a robust assessment ofthe principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 6265 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement within the directors report on pages 111 and 112 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation within the directors report on page 59 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the ofmaterial misstatement greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Financial statements 189 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Provision for impairment losses against loans and receivables  andVanquis Bank The provision for impairment losses is calculated by modelling We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls across CCD relating portfolios of receivables within the group.
The assessment to the identification and recording of impairment provisions and the of the groups calculation of the 317.7m 2014: 385.0m of arithmetical accuracy ofthemodels used to calculate impairment.
impairment provisions is complex and requires management This included using our IT specialists to test the data flows from source to make significant judgements regarding the level and timing systems to spreadsheet-based models to test their completeness of expected future cash flows from loans that have reached and accuracy.
Within Vanquis Bank, particular focus was given to the the impairment trigger.
Further detail in respect of these adequacy of change controls over SAS scripts used to generate the assumptions is set out in the key assumptions and estimates impairment models.
section of the accounting policies on page 144 and note 15 of the financial statements.
We challenged the key assumptions in the CCD model including the impairment trigger, the projected future cash flows based on the actual Within CCD, management uses historical collection curves collections and risk grade stability.
to determine expected future cash flows which are formally assessed bi-annually by management with reference to current collections experience and future expectations in order to determine their ongoing accuracy.
Within Vanquis Bank, the impairment provision methodology reflects timely portfolio data and takes into account current economic conditions eg unemployment levels, product mix and recent customer behaviour.
Whilst there are a number of different elements to the provision, the key judgement areas are the determination of the impairment trigger and the estimate of the expected future cash flows which are generated using data sourcing techniques and SAS scripts computer programming code to extract data from the underlying lending system.
Revenue recognition Consumer Credit Division andVanquis Bank Management maintains a number of Effective Interest Rate We tested the key controls relating to the recording of revenue which EIR models to determine revenue recognition in accordance focused on the flow of data from source systems into the EIR models.
with the requirements of IAS 39.
Interest revenue recognised This included an assessment by our IT specialists of automated controls in the year amounted to 970.3m 2014: 942.0m.
The EIR and SAS scripts to determine whether the data within the EIR models method spreads directly attributable revenues and costs over were complete and accurate.
We also tested the arithmetical accuracy the behavioural life of the loan.
These models are complex of the models to assess whether they were working as intended and in and heavily reliant on the quality of the underlying data flowing compliance with the requirements of IAS 39. into the models.
We have identified revenue recognition as We challenged the assumptions used in the recognition of revenue, a significant risk as the amount of revenue recognised in any including the impact of early redemptions by assessing whether the period is dependent on a number of significant assumptions revenue recognition policies adopted were in compliance with IAS39.
These include the expected behavioural We considered the assumptions applied to determine the future life of each loan and the timing of expected future cash flows.
expected cash flows by reference to the groups historical experience These could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Further detail in respect of these assumptions are set out in the critical judgements and uncertainties section of the accounting policies note on page 144 and note2 of the financial statements.
190 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Defined benefit pension scheme valuation Determining the key assumptions used to calculate the present We used our actuarial specialists to assist us in evaluating the value of the 62.3m 2014: 56.0m retirement benefit obligation appropriateness of the principal actuarial assumptions used in the requires significant management judgement in relation to calculation of the retirement benefit obligation, as set out in note 20. inflation rates, discount rates and mortality rates.
We note that This involved benchmarking managements assumptions against those the selection of the discount rate has a large impact on the used by a range of organisations as at 31 December 2015 and considering overall valuation as set out in the sensitivity analysis in note 20. the consistency of those judgements compared to prior year.
Last year our report included two other risks which are not included in this years report: Moneybarn fair value adjustments thefair value exercise has been concluded with no significant adjustments in the currentyear : and Tax provisions there have been no significant new tax provisions.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the audit committee discussed on pages 102 and 103.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Financial statements 191 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our auditwork and inevaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 16.4m 2014: 16.8m, which is 6% 2014: 7.5%, of pre-tax profit.
The decrease in the percentage used is to alignmore closely with comparable companies in the FTSE 100.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 340,000 2014: 336,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our audit work on the principal trading subsidiaries comprised statutory audits whichwere executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which werelower than group materiality and ranged from450,000 to 11.0m.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, and, as in the prior year, our group audit scope focused on all of the principal trading subsidiaries within the groups three reportable segments which account for 100% of the groups profit before tax.
Consumer Credit Division and Moneybarn have the same engagement partner as the group audit and Vanquis Bank is audited by a separate component team, under the supervision of the group team who have maintained regular communication throughout the audit.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work toaddress the risks of material misstatement identified above.
192 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: andaccounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report in the annual report toyouif, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge ofthe group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Financial statements 193 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are of directors and auditor responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UKand Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial of the financial statements statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies weconsider the implications for our report.
Peter Birch FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Manchester, United Kingdom 23February 2016 194 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 shareholder information
