Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit.
The primary areas of estimation arise in: The groups assessment of whether payments made to 1 Our opinion on the financial newly recruited investment managers under contractual statements is unmodified arrangements represent payments for the acquisition of client relationship intangibles which would be We have audited the financial statements of Rathbone capitalised or payments in respect of providing ongoing Brothers Plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on services to the group which would be expensed.
In our opinion: forming this judgement, the group has determined the financial statements give a true and fair view of the that the appropriate accounting policy is to capitalise state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as payments made to investment managers relating to client at 31 December 2015 and of the groups profit for the year relationships acquired in the period up to 12 months then ended: after the cessation of any non-compete arrangements between an investment manager and their previous the group financial statements have been properly employer.
Further judgement is applied in exceptional prepared in accordance with International Financial circumstances where the group consider that the Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union investment manager is introducing client relationships IFRS as adopted by the EU : that previously existed beyond the 12 month period.
the parent company financial statements have been In such circumstances, where the group believe it is properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by appropriate to do so, the period during which such the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of payments are capitalised is extended beyond 12 months.
the Companies Act 2006: and The groups assessment of whether the ongoing benefits the financial statements have been prepared in offered by the capitalised client relationship intangibles accordance with the requirements of the Companies are greater than their carrying value and whether there is Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, an indication of impairment.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The groups estimation of the useful economic lives of the client relationships over which these intangible assets are 2 Our assessment of risks of subsequently amortised which typically ranges between material misstatement 10 and 15 years using a straight line method.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial Our response: To assess the groups judgement in applying statements the risks of material misstatement that had the the above accounting policy, we used our industry greatest effect on our audit were as follows: knowledge and experience and considered the criteria for the recognition of payments to secure an asset Recognition and impairment of client relationship management contract as an asset.
In this area our audit intangibles: 100,869,000 procedures included: Refer to page 85 audit committee report, page 105 We assessed the appropriateness of the capitalised accounting policy and pages 108 and 125 to 126 financial payments during the year by performing testing of a disclosures.
risk-based sample of newly recognised client relationship The risk: Individually purchased client relationships are intangibles.
This testing assessed whether such costs initially recognised at cost and those acquired as part of were only capitalised when they fell in the period up a business combination initially recognised at fair value.
to 12 months of the conclusion of any non-compete The classification of the individually purchased client arrangements and that such costs related to relationships relationships as intangible assets or an expense item already held by the investment manager.
In respect and the impairment of the intangible assets in respect of those instances where payments were capitalised of customer relationships both purchased individually and beyond the 12 month period, for each significant addition those acquired as part of a business combination are two we confirmed whether these relationships were held of the key judgement areas and represent a significant by the investment manager in a previous employment, audit risk.
challenged management on the nature of the relationship and obtained documentary evidence.
92 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement the treatment of contractual payments and whether they are consideration or remuneration for post-combination In considering the adequacy of the impairment services, and for payments that qualify as consideration, assessment performed by the group to support the the value of the deferred and contingent elements.
carrying value of the client relationship intangible previously capitalised under IAS 18 Revenue we assessed Our response: With the support of our own valuation the current value of client accounts and whether they specialists, we challenged the groups methodology and continue to represent an ongoing benefit.
We also the key underlying assumptions to value the pre-existing assessed the population of client accounts for any closed 19.9% shareholding, including the discount rate and growth accounts or non-income generating clients for the group rates.
We also considered the groups key assumptions to assess whether any associated intangible assets should and methodology adopted in the valuation of the client be appropriately derecognised.
For client relationship relationship intangible assets recognised at the date intangibles that were previously capitalised under of acquisition and assessed the consistency of the key IFRS 3 Business Combinations, we have challenged the inputs with other group valuations, including the discount appropriateness of the groups impairment triggers by rate, growth rate, and expected duration of the client aligning them to the key factors underpinning the value of relationships.
the intangible asset, including funds under management, We also challenged the groups treatment of the various client numbers and market movements.
At the end of anticipated contractual payments detailed in the purchase the year we also assessed whether the triggers indicated and sale agreement and whether they were appropriately possible impairment.
recognised and measured at the date of acquisition as Our consideration of the appropriateness of the useful consideration in accordance with IFRS 3.
This included an economic lives of the client relationships and amortisation evaluation of the nature and conditions for which payments periods included performing an analysis of the length of are due under the contractual terms and for elements that the client relationships held by the group with reference were recognised as consideration, the groups assumptions to the historic gross outflows of funds under management.
and estimate of the timing and quantum of the expected payments.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosure in respect of the client relationship We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosure in intangible assets.
Accounting for the acquisition of Vision and Castle Valuation of defined benefit pension obligation: 4,501,000 Refer to pages 85 and 86 audit committee report, page 101 accounting policy and pages 109 and 154 to 155 financial Refer to page 86 audit committee report, page 107 disclosures.
accounting policy and pages 108 and 129 to 134 financial disclosures.
The risk: On 31 December 2015, the group acquired the 80.1% of Vision Independent Financial Planning Limited and The risk: The parent company has recognised a pension Castle Investment Solutions Limited it did not already own.
The valuation The group previously owned 19.9% of the ordinary share of the defined benefit pension deficit is an important capital of the two companies with an option to purchase the judgement as this balance is volatile and impacts the parent remaining shares, which was accounted for as a derivative companys distributable reserves.
The group obtained advice contract under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition from actuarial specialists in order to calculate this deficit and and Measurement.
uncertainty arises as a result of estimates made in respect of long-term trends and market conditions to determine the The accounting for the transaction is considered to be a value based on the groups expectations of the future.
As a significant risk due to the high degree of judgement involved result, the actual surplus or deficit realised by the group may in applying IFRS 3 Business Combinations, specifically: be significantly different to that recognised on the balance the appropriateness of the fair value of the pre-existing sheet since small changes to the assumptions used in the 19.9% interest and the fair values of the tangible and calculation materially affect the valuation and may result intangible assets acquired: and in the recognition of a deficit materially different from the liability recognised at the year end.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 93 Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 4 Our opinion on other matters Our response: With the support of our own actuarial prescribed by the Companies Act specialists, we challenged key assumptions and estimates 2006 is unmodified used in the calculation of the pension deficit, including the discount rate, RPI inflation, salary growth and life In our opinion: expectancy that were applied to the valuation.
This included the part of the directors remuneration report to be a comparison of key assumptions against externally derived audited has been properly prepared in accordance with data and our benchmark ranges for similar schemes.
We the Companies Act 2006: also considered the groups judgement in selecting its assumptions and whether there were any indicators of bias.
the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the We have also considered the adequacy of the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the groups disclosures in respect of the deficit and financial statements: and the assumptions used.
information given in the corporate governance report set 3 Our application of materiality out on pages 63 to 66 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting and an overview of the scope processes and about share capital structures is consistent of our audit with the financial statements.
The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole 5 We have nothing to report on the was set at 2.8 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax, of which it represents disclosures of principal risks 4.8%.
We report to the audit committee any corrected or Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 140,000, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted relation to: reporting on qualitative grounds.
the directors statement of longer-term viability on All six of the groups reporting components were subjected page 26, concerning the principal risks, their management, to audits for group reporting purposes.
These audits covered and, based on that, the directors assessment and 100% of group revenue, 100% of group profit before tax and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over 100% of group total assets.
the three years to 2018: or The group audit team performed the audits of the six the disclosures in note 1.6 of the consolidated financial reporting components in accordance with the materiality statements concerning the use of the going concern basis levels used for local audits, which ranged from 0.08 million of accounting.
94 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only 6 We have nothing to report in Scope and responsibilities respect of the matters on which we As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 90, the directors are responsible are required to report by exception for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements audit, we have identified other information in the annual is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at report that contains a material inconsistency with either www.
that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body and is subject to important explanations and In particular, we are required to report to you if: disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our we have identified material inconsistencies between the website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and statement that they consider that the annual report and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of understandable and provides the information necessary our opinions.
for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or Nicholas Edmonds Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the audit committee report does not appropriately address Chartered Accountants matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
London Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 23 February 2016 you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on pages 26 and 62, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the corporate governance report on page 64 relating to the companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 95 Consolidated financial statements
