INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP LIMITED Opinion on In our opinion the financial statements: financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys aairs as at 31 December 2015 and of statements of The its profit for the year then ended: Renewables have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Infrastructure IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Group Limited have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 22.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern and We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis the directors of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the Directors statement on assessment of the the longer-term viability of the Company contained within the Directors Report on page 59. principal risks that We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: would threaten the the Directors conrmation on page 60 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the solvency or principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, liquidity of the future performance, solvency or liquidity: Company the disclosures on pages 46 to 51 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identication of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 59 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Company and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest eect risks of material on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the eorts of the misstatement engagement team.
We have not included the risk of revenue recognition in this years audit report.
Whilst we continue to classify this as a significant risk for the purpose of our audit, we do not consider it to be an area that has had a continued significant impact on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in our audit or in directing the eorts of the engagement team.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
72 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Assessment of the valuation of investments Risk description The Companys investments held at fair value, comprise of investments in intermediate holding companies and equity and subordinated debt interests in wind farm and solar park projects for which there is no liquid market and which are valued on a discounted cash ow basis.
The Companys portfolio increased signicantly in the year, with 254.6 million purchases of further investments, funded through issue of equity.
The year end valuation of 711.6 million at 31 December 2015 2014: 412.4m requires significant judgements in respect of the forecast cash ows and discount rates applied.
The judgements in respect of forecast cash ows include assumptions around future energy yields, power prices, ination, tax rates, exchange rates and operating costs.
This is disclosed as a critical accounting judgement in note 3 of the financial statements, a breakdown of the investments and the assumptions applied to the valuation are described in note 4.
How the scope of Our audit is directed to considering the evidence available to support these assumptions and our audit our audit the sensitivity of the valuation to reasonably possible changes in these assumptions.
responded to the We critically assessed these assumptions and the fund valuation model in which they are applied risk in determining the fair value.
Our audit procedures included: understanding and reviewing the design and implementation of internal controls around updates to the valuation model used at 31 December 2015: reviewing the independent advice received by the company in respect of energy yields, power prices and discount rates and meeting with those advisers where appropriate to understand the methodology used and challenge key assumptions: using our own Deloitte internal valuation specialists to benchmark the discount rate against comparable market participants: reviewing the share purchase agreements for any newly acquired assets in order to confirm the acquisition cost and the nature and amount of any deferred consideration that may be embedded in the valuation: using macroeconomic data including ination and tax rate forecasts and observable market data to benchmark key assumptions: testing the incorporation of the assumptions into the valuation model and the correct application of the selected discount rates: reviewing cash ow projections, focusing on changes since the previous reporting date or the date of acquisition for current period assets acquired, substantiating any contracted revenues and costs and comparison against actual historical results for the underlying investments: and reviewing the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements.
Key observations Using macroeconomic data including ination and tax rate forecasts and other observable market data to benchmark the key assumptions and discount rates, we concluded that in aggregate the assumptions are within the acceptable range of reasonably possible alternatives and none of the assumptions tested individually fell outside the acceptable threshold.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 68.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 73 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP LIMITED continued Our application of We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes materiality it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 14.0 million 2014: 8.5 million, which is below 2% 2014: 2% of shareholders equity.
We consider equity to be the key benchmark used by members of the Company in assessing financial performance.
The reason for the significant increase in the year relates to the growth in this benchmark throughout the period.
A lower materiality threshold of 0.4 million 2014: 0.9 million has been applied to those account balances which are not directly associated with the investment valuation.
The lower level of materiality has been determined based on approximately 5% of profit before tax excluding valuation gains 2014: approximately 5%.
We consider it appropriate to test balances such as interest income, dividend income, administrative expenses and associated working capital balances using a lower materiality threshold, as these balances impact the net income available to support distributions to shareholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit dierences in excess of 280,000 2014: 166,000, as well as dierences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including scope of our audit internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As the Company is required to measure its subsidiaries at fair value rather than consolidate on a line-by-line basis, the company has been treated as having only one component, which is audited to the materiality set out above.
Matters on which Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we are required to we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or report by exception proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: or Adequacy of explanations the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
received and We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
accounting records Corporate Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Statement Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, other information in our opinion, information in the annual report is: in the Annual materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Report apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
74 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Respective As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible responsibilities of for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and directors and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in auditor accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are eective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial of the financial statements sucient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from statements material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Becker for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 22 February 2016 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 75
