Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED Our opinion on the Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement: Financial Statements i valuation of the Companys investment in the In our opinion the Financial Statements: Partnership.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys ii ownership of the Partnership and underlying affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit for investments.
the year then ended: In previous years we identified a risk that related have been properly prepared in accordance with party transactions might not be properly identified International Financial Reporting Standards as and disclosed.
In view of the process embedded in the adopted by the EU: and Company we no longer consider related parties to be have been prepared in accordance with the a significant risk.
requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, Audit scope: 2008 the Companies Law.
We have audited the Financial Statements of Riverstone Energy Limited for the year ended 31 December 2015.
What we have audited The audit was led from Guernsey and utilised valuation The Companys Financial Statements comprise: and other industry specialists from Ernst & Young LLP in the Statement of Financial Position as at the U.
S.. We operated as an integrated audit team across 31 December 2015: relevant jurisdictions and we performed audit procedures and responded to the risks identified as described below.
the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2015: Materiality: the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year Overall materiality of $26.9 million 2014: $24.8 million, ended 31 December 2015: which is approximately 2 per cent.
the Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 December 2015: and related notes 1 to 16 to the Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED CONTINUED Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the Financial Statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Valuation of the We confirmed our understanding of the We confirmed that there were no material Companys investment processes, policies and methodologies used by instances of use of inappropriate policies or in the Partnership management for valuing investments held by methodologies and that the valuation of level $1,345 million, the Partnership.
three investments held by the Partnership was 2014 $1,234 million not materially misstated.
We carried out investment valuation Refer to the Audit procedures on all level three investments held We confirmed that there were no material Committee Report by the Partnership with a fair value in excess matters arising from our audit work on: pages 47 to 50 : of our Reporting Threshold of $1.3 million inputs to valuations: or accounting policies excluding new investments made in the last tax adjustments to valuations: in Note 2 of the quarter of the year.
This sample is more that we wanted to bring to the attention of the Financial Statements.
extensive than the sample required by our Audit Committee.
methodology but we extended the sample The values of level size at the request of the Audit Committee.
We also confirmed that there were no material three investments matters arising from our audit work on the We engaged our own internal oil and gas may be misstated value of the Companys investment in the industry valuation specialists to: due to the application Partnership that we wanted to bring to the of inappropriate a use their knowledge of the market to attention of the Audit Committee.
methodologies or inputs assess and corroborate managements to the valuations.
market related judgements and valuation Valuation of level three inputs including discount rates, current investments requires and future oil and gas prices, valuation significant industry multiples and recent relevant transaction expertise.
It also requires data by reference to our experts significant judgement and knowledge of comparable transactions, estimation.
In addition independently compiled databases indices there is a risk that proper and information reported by comparable accruals are not made for public companies: the taxation consequences b assist us to determine whether the of disposing investments methodologies used to value investments at their recorded fair value.
were in accordance with methods, particularly those specific to the industry, usually used by market participants.
We vouched significant valuation inputs to independent sources and we tested the arithmetical accuracy of the valuation calculations.
We engaged our own tax professionals to assess whether the mechanisms in place for capturing tax in fair valuation changes reflected the likely tax consequences of such changes.
We formed an independent view of whether the fair value of the Companys investment in the underlying Partnership is equivalent to the net asset value of the Partnership and assessed managements assumptions in reaching this conclusion.
We also assessed whether the data used in the analysis was appropriate and relevant.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements Risk Our response to the risk What we reported to the Audit Committee Ownership of We obtained independent legal confirmation We confirmed that there were no material the Partnership at 31 December 2015 confirming the matters identified in our audit work on $1,309 million, 2014 Company's investment structure holdings: ownership of investments that we wanted to $1,211 million and bring to the attention of the Audit Committee.
We obtained independent confirmation underlying investments from the underlying investee companies $845 million, 2014 as at 30 September 2015: $375 million Note 6 We tested changes in holdings between There is a risk that the 30 September and 31 December by Company, through the inspecting acquisition and investment Partnership and drawdown documentation: underlying structures may For investments acquired in 2015, we obtained not have good title to legal documentation for each layer of the investments which could Companys investment holding chain to expose the Company to confirm ownership at each layer: significant risk of loss.
Reviewing the summary financial information for each layer of the Companys investment holding chain to confirm ownership changes and closing position at each layer: and Reviewing the latest Partnership agreement and the Board Meeting minutes of the Company and of the General Partner to the underlying Partnership to confirm no changes in ownership of the Limited Partnership.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED CONTINUED Performance materiality The scope of our audit Performance materiality is the application of Tailoring the scope materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected materiality and our allocation of performance materiality and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
determine our audit scope and the allocation of work between the audit team and internal valuation specialists.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the assessment of the Companys overall control environment, Financial Statements.
our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Company should be 75 per cent.
of Our application of materiality materiality, namely $20.2 million 2014: 50 per cent.
of We apply the concept of materiality in planning materiality, namely $12.4 million.
We have increased our and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of assessment of performance materiality from 50 per cent.
to identified misstatements on the audit and in forming 75 per cent.
during the year as a result of limited historical our audit opinion.
audit findings in prior year, and due to the fact 2014 was our first audit cycle following significant commencement Materiality of the Partnerships investment programme.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total Materiality is the magnitude of an omission or uncorrected and undetected audit differences in the misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, Financial Statements did not exceed our materiality level.
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the Financial Statements.
Reporting threshold Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
Reporting threshold is an amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being We determined planning materiality for the clearly trivial.
Company to be $26.9 million 2014: $24.8 million, which is approximately 2 per cent.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we of equity.
This provided a basis for determining the would report to them all audit differences in excess of nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, $1.3 million 2014: $1.2 million which is set at 5 per cent.
identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement of planning materiality, as well as differences below that and determining the nature, timing and extent of threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on further audit procedures.
We used equity as a basis for qualitative grounds.
determining planning materiality because the Companys We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against primary performance measures for internal and external both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed reporting are based on equity.
above and in light of other relevant qualitative During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial considerations in forming our opinion.
materiality and noted no factors leading us to amend materiality levels from those originally determined at the audit planning stage.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements Scope of the audit of the Financial Matters on which we are required to Statements report by exception An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts ISAs UK and Ireland and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements financial and non-financial information in the are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Annual Report is: fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys materially inconsistent with the information in the circumstances and have been consistently applied and audited Financial Statements: or adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant apparently materially incorrect based on, or accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In Company acquired in the course of performing our addition, we read all the financial and non-financial audit: or information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and otherwise misleading.
to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the In particular, we are required to report whether we have knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material acquired in the course of performing the audit and the misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Directors Statement that they consider the Annual Report implications for our report.
and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the entitys performance, Respective responsibilities of Directors business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we and auditor communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities should have been disclosed.
Statement set out on page 38, the Directors are responsible We have no exceptions to report.
for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Listing Rules review requirements Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable We are required to review: law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the Directors Statement in relation to going concern Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the and longer-term viability, set out pages 36 and 37 and Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement This report is made solely to the Companys relating to the Companys compliance with the members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code of the Companies Law.
Our audit work has been specified for our review.
undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them We have no exceptions to report.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requirements assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
proper accounting records have not been kept: or the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED CONTINUED Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors Statement in the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Michael Bane For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey 25 February 2016 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the sole responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
