Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial statements Other Information Financial statements Group consolidated financial statements RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RSA Insurance Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the Group financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of RSA Insurance Group plc RSA for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 103 to 178.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit in decreasing order of audit significance were as follows.
Insurance liabilities provision for losses and loss adjustment expenses 12,191 million 2014: 13,266 million Refer to page 61 Group Audit Committee Report, page 109 accounting policy and pages 155 to 160 financial disclosures Risk Response Insurance liabilities represent the single largest liability for the Group.
Our audit procedures included: Valuation of these liabilities is highly judgemental, and requires The evaluation and testing of key controls around the claims a number of assumptions to be made that have high estimation handling and case reserve setting processes of the Group.
This is particularly the case for those liabilities that We examined evidence of the operation of controls over the are recognised in respect of claims that have occurred, but have valuation of individual claims reserves, such as large loss review not yet been reported to the Group.
controls and internal peer reviews whereby second reviewers examine documentation supporting claims case reserves and Certain lines of business also contain greater inherent uncertainty, consider if the amount recorded in the financial statements is for example those where claims emerge more slowly over time, valued appropriately.
or where there is greater variability in claim settlement amounts.
This includes Abuse, Asbestos and Deafness classes, UK Professional and Checking samples of claims case reserves through comparing Financial Risk Classes, the Danish Workers Compensation class, the the estimated amount of the case reserve to appropriate Swedish Personal Accident classes, the Canadian General Liability documentation, such as reports from loss adjusters.
class and classes of business affected by emerging industry issues The evaluation and testing of key controls designed to ensure such as the impact of Periodic Payment Orders which are akin to the integrity of the data used in the actuarial reserving process annuities with longevity and inflation risk on UK motor business.
including both current and prior year case reserve data.
Small changes in the assumptions used to value the liabilities, Re-performing reconciliations between the claims data recorded particularly those relating to the amount and timing of future claims, in the policy administration systems and the data used in the can lead to material impacts on the valuation of insurance liabilities.
The key assumptions that drive the reserving calculations include loss In addition, with the assistance of our actuarial specialists, we: ratios, estimates of the frequency and severity of claims and, where appropriate, the discount rates for longer tail classes of business by Assessed the key assumptions and reserving methodologies territory and line of business.
driving the value of the insurance liabilities.
To do this we: compared the assumptions to expectations based on the The valuation of insurance liabilities depends on accurate data about Groups historical experience, current trends and our own the volume, amount and pattern of current and historical claims industry knowledge, including information relating to forthcoming since they are often used to form expectations about future claims.
legislation that may impact claims settlement speed or amount: If the data used in calculating insurance liabilities, or for forming evaluated the level of prudence applied and compared this to judgements over key assumptions, is not complete and accurate then prior periods: material impacts on the valuation of insurance liabilities may arise.
used our industry knowledge to benchmark the Groups reserving Finally, a margin is added to the actuarial best estimate of insurance methodologies assumptions, and estimates of losses: and liabilities, to provide for the risk of adverse development in the claims reviewed sensitivity analyses over key judgements and recognised.
The appropriate margin to recognise is a judgement taken assumptions, such as the discount rates for longer tail classes by management, based on the perceived uncertainty and potential for of business and Periodic Payment Order projections.
volatility in the underlying claims.
As such, it is a subjective estimate.
Independently re-projected the reserve balances for certain As a result of all of the above factors, insurance liabilities represent classes of business.
a significant risk for the Group.
Evaluated the governance around the overall Group reserving process, including the scrutiny applied by the Local, Regional and Group Reserving committees, as well as Group level actuarial reviews.
We assessed qualifications and experience of those responsible and examined the output of the reviews to assess the scope and depth of these processes.
Our evaluation of the methodologies and key assumptions for the most significant and subjective classes of business enabled us to assess the quality of the challenge applied through the Groups reserving process.
This included evaluating the appropriateness of the Reserve committees determination of the appropriate margin to be applied to the actuarial best estimate of insurance liabilities.
In particular we considered for the allowance for uncertainties inherent in the data and assumptions inherent in developing the actuarial best estimate.
Finally, we also assessed the Groups disclosure in relation to insurance liabilities, including the discount rate and historic claims development.
100 Financial statements Group consolidated financial statements RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RSA Insurance Group plc only continued Deferred tax assets 163 million 2014: 180 million Refer to page 61 Group Audit Committee Report, page 113 accounting policy and page 177 financial disclosures.
Risk Response Forecasting the future taxable profits against which deferred tax Our audit procedures included challenging the key assumptions assets can be recognised is inherently uncertain.
In making these driving the forecast of future taxable profits on which the recognition forecasts, the Group must make assumptions about the future of the deferred tax asset relies particularly in the UK business to growth rate, profit margins and expense ratios of the business.
which the largest element of the deferred tax asset relates.
The recognition of the deferred tax asset in the UK is particularly We compared the expected growth rates to the Groups approved subjective given its sensitivity to expectations about the profitability operating plan.
We assessed the accuracy of that forecasting process of the UK and to a lesser extent the Irish businesses, which in turn in the past, and considered whether projected margins are achievable both depend on the achievement of operating plans.
with reference to the businesss recent performance and revised operating plans, as well as our own industry knowledge.
We also evaluated the internal review and challenge process the Group undertakes during the development of the operational plan, the extent to which the Group considered alternative outcomes and the depth of review and challenge performed by the Group Risk Function as part of the process to approve the operational plan.
We considered the sensitivity of the forecast taxable profits to assumptions such as the Combined Operating Ratio.
With the support of our own tax specialists, we also assessed the extent to which projected profits were taxable, in particular the Groups assumptions about how accumulated tax losses and other associated tax attributes can be utilised against UK taxable profits.
We have evaluated the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the assumptions supporting the deferred tax asset valuation and recognition.
Pensions and post-retirement obligations of 7,126 million 2014: 7,598 million Refer to page 61 Group Audit Committee Report, page 113 accounting policy and page 160 to 164 financial disclosures.
Risk Response The valuation of the defined benefit pension liabilities before Our audit procedures included, among others, challenging the deducting scheme assets depends on a number of critical discount rate, inflation rate and life expectancy against externally assumptions and estimates, including the discount rate used derived data.
This work was supported by our own pensions to calculate the current value of the future payments the Group specialists.
expects to pay to pensioners, the rate of inflation that must be We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect incorporated in the estimate of the future pension payments, of the sensitivity of the surplus deficit to these assumptions.
and the life expectancy of pension scheme members.
Small changes in these assumptions and estimates used in these valuations can have a significant effect on the valuation of the pension liabilities and therefore the amount of the net surplus deficit of the pension and post-retirement obligations and the financial position of the Group.
IT systems and controls Refer to page 61 Group Audit Committee Report.
Risk Response Many financial reporting controls depend on the correct functioning In this area our audit procedures included, among others, testing of operational and financial IT systems, for example interfaces general IT controls around system access and change management between policy administration and financial reporting systems, and testing controls over computer operations within specific or automated controls that prevent or detect inaccurate or applications which are required to be operating correctly to mitigate incomplete transfers of financial information.
If these systems or the risk of misstatement in the financial statements.
With the support controls fail, a significant risk of error in reported financial information of our own IT specialists, we tested these controls through examining can arise from the failure to transfer data appropriately between the process for approving changes to the systems, and assessing the systems or inappropriate changes being made to financial data or restrictions placed on access to core systems through testing the systems.
This is an area of significant risk in our audit due to the permissions and responsibilities of those given that access.
complexity of the IT infrastructure, particularly in the UK and Where general IT controls were not operating effectively and we Scandinavia, where there are legacy systems which require were therefore unable to rely on the related automated IT controls, increased manual inputs, relative to more automated processes.
we addressed the increased risk that financial information was affected by extending the scope of our work.
This included assessing the operation of controls over changes or transactions being recorded in the systems.
We also tested manual compensating controls, such as reconciliations between systems and other information sources, and performed additional substantive testing, such as using extended sample sizes and performing data analysis routines over the full population of transactions.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial statements Other Information Financial statements Group consolidated financial statements RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 Goodwill and Intangible Assets In 2014, the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets was separately identified in our audit report.
The level of audit risk in this area has reduced through a combination of the write down of the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets recognised in prior years, additional amortisation of capitalised software and business disposals.
While we continue to perform audit procedures over these balances, we no longer assess that the valuation of these assets represents one of the risks that has the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our audit report this year.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 35m, determined with reference to a benchmark of net earned premiums of which it represents 0.6%.
In 2014 materiality was 40m, with reference to a benchmark of net written premiums of which it represented 0.5%.
The change aligns our assessment of materiality to a measure that is a better reflection of revenue from the Groups operations and that, unlike net written premium, is not subject to the volatility arising from multi-year insurance contracts, but is still a key financial statement metric used in assessing the performance of the Group.
Materiality has also reduced in absolute terms because disposals of businesses across the Group has reduced the size of the continuing operations, and hence the benchmarks we use to determine it.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements exceeding 1.75m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Group net earned premium Materiality 6,160m 35m Materiality for the Group financial statements 26m Range of materiality applied to component audits 10-26m 2m Threshold Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee Based on their significance to the financial performance and position of the Group and the Groups continuing operations, audits were performed by component auditors for six of the Groups 19 geographical components, being those located within the UK, Ireland, Canada and Scandinavia.
In addition, specified risk-focused audit procedures were performed by component auditors on five of the other components.
These components, and the Groups central functions, were not individually significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The nature and extent of these procedures varied in accordance with the assessed risk of misstatement, but were primarily focused on the investments and insurance liabilities recognised on the balance sheet, and the premiums and claims balances recognised in the income statement.
For the remaining components, no Group reporting was required from the local audit team as specific individual risks significant to the Group were not identified.
We performed additional analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine this assessment.
The different components accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: Group net earned premium Total Group assets Group insurance liabilities Total Group profit loss before tax 6% 3% 4% 4% 15% 9% 37% 50% 60% 35% 84% 92% Audit for Group reporting Specified audit procedures Analysis at Group level 102 Financial statements Group consolidated financial statements RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RSA Insurance Group plc only continued The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the components materiality thresholds, which ranged from 15m to 24m, having regard to the size and risk profile to the Group of these components.
The Group audit team visited five component locations, being those in the UK, Ireland, Canada, Scandinavia and Brazil, in order to assess the audit risk and planned audit approach.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail and the Group audit team reviewed key elements of the components audit evidence and work papers.
Any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors Viability Statement on page 94, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2018: or the disclosures on page 108 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Group Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on pages 40 to 96, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 46 to 54 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 98, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stuart Crisp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants London 24 February 2016
