Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion Our audit approach In our opinion: Overview Schroders plc Group financial statements and Company Materiality Overall Group materiality: 30.4 million which represents financial statements the financial statements give a true and 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys Audit scope The Group has three business segments, Asset affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and Management, Wealth Management and the Group the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then segment, consisting of over 130 legal entities operating ended: in 28 countries.
We audited the complete financial information for 13 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared legal entities, due to their size and or risk characteristics.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Taken together, the territories and functions in the scope Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: of audit work accounted for 84 per cent.
of Group the Company financial statements have been properly revenues, 82 per cent.
of Group profit before tax and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the exceptional items and 97 per cent.
European Union and as applied in accordance with the Area of focus Risk of misstatement in revenue and cost of sales provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Valuation and completeness of provisions.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, The scope of our audit and our areas of focus as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards IAS Regulation.
on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
What we have audited We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the The financial statements, included within the Annual Report risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for the consolidated and the Schroders plc statements example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved of financial position as at 31 December 2015: making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently the consolidated income statement and statement uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of of comprehensive income for the year then ended: management override of internal controls, including evaluating the consolidated and the Schroders plc statements of whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented changes in equity and cash flow statements for the year a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include significant The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our accounting policies and other explanatory information.
audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table overleaf.
We have also set out how we Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
154 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial report Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of misstatement of revenue and cost of sales Refer to page 61 Audit and Risk Committee Report and note 2 We understood the significant revenue and cost of sale items and assessed Revenue, note 3 Cost of sales where there is a higher risk of error, due to manual processes, bespoke or complex contractual terms, and areas of judgement so that we could focus Revenue, which comprises management fees, performance fees, other our work in these areas.
income and interest income earned by Wealth Management, is the result of asset management activities within both the Asset We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls in place across the Management and Wealth Management segments.
Commissions, Group relevant to these revenue and cost of sales calculations, including the external fund manager fees, distribution fees payable and interest assets under management, set up and maintenance of contractual terms expense incurred by Wealth Management are recorded as an expense and fee billing and commission payment systems.
The Group recognised net operating revenue of 1,600.7 million 2014: 1,495.2 million.
We also obtained and assessed independent assurance reports for the relevant controls at the third party administrators and considered whether The calculations of revenue and cost of sales are largely automated.
there was any impact on our audit.
There are a number of inherent risks in calculating certain types of revenue and cost of sales including the interpretation and manual Where the calculations are automated, we used computer assisted auditing input of key contractual terms, which could result in errors.
The techniques to recalculate revenue, management fee rebates and bespoke and complex nature of the investment management commissions.
On a sample basis, we agreed key inputs in to the systems agreements, distribution agreements and other contractual terms back to contracts and re-performed calculations involving manual processes.
involving multiple entities globally requires effective monitoring to ensure all financial terms and conditions are captured completely and We re-performed a sample of performance fee calculations to check that accurately and applied appropriately.
performance fees were appropriately calculated.
We tested the data used to the Groups underlying systems, agreed the basis of calculation to the Performance fees also remain an area of focus.
The calculation basis is contractual terms and agreed the benchmark performance to an independent set out in the relevant fund prospectus or investment management third party source.
In addition to the complexity of interpreting the agreements, there is a risk of error as the calculation involves manual components Our testing did not identify any evidence of material misstatement.
and may involve some complexity as the performance of relevant assets is compared to a relevant benchmark.
Valuation and completeness of provisions Refer to page 61 Audit and Risk Committee Report, note 6 Tax expense and note 18 Provisions and Contingent Liabilities.
The Group is required to makes estimates in respect of legal and regulatory provisions and uncertain tax positions.
As the Group operates across multiple countries with differing legal, regulatory and tax regimes, there is an inherent risk in the interpretation and application of the legislation in each territory in respect of the Groups global business.
Legal and regulatory Legal and regulatory The Group is exposed to actual and potential legal claims and also In order to test potential liabilities both those for which a provision is matters arising as a result of changes in regulation and legislation in the recognised and those for which one is not, we made enquiries of the countries in which it operates.
Certain estimations and assumptions Groups and Companys internal legal counsel, read relevant documentation, involved are inherently judgemental in nature.
As at 31 December 2015, obtained independent letters from external counsel and assessed the legal and regulatory provisions were 13.9 million 2014: 42.1 million.
We did not identify any material misstatements.
Tax Tax For most organisations, there is increased focus and challenge from tax We compared the Groups transfer pricing policy against our understanding authorities over the application of legislation, both locally in individual of the activities of the Group and the OECD principles for Multinational territories and cross border, which increases the uncertainty over the Enterprises and Tax Administrations.
We tested the application of the completeness and valuation of tax balances, which led us to focus on transfer pricing by legal entity within our revenue testing through this area.
recalculation of the adjustments and agreeing the key inputs to underlying agreements.
For a number of operating companies within the Group the taxable profit is generated, in part, through the allocation of total Group revenue based We considered managements approach to uncertain tax positions and on the proportion of total activities performed in each country.
This tested the calculation of the current and deferred tax positions estimated at procedure is governed by a transfer pricing policy to ensure revenue the individual legal entity level and at the Group level.
and costs are recognised appropriately in accordance with the applicable tax legislation.
The Group had a tax charge of 121.6 million 2014: 103.9 million for the year.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 155 Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements statement, set out on page 67, in relation to going concern.
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the The Group operates with four centralised finance functions in the UK, Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to Luxembourg, Switzerland and Singapore along with smaller functions adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
in the territories in which they operate.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
In establishing the overall approach to the audit of the Group, we As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded considered our assessment of the risk of material misstatement that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing within each entity.
We concluded that 13 entities generated the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the significant activities or balances to the results of the Group through Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, the consideration of various factors such as, their contribution to the and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from Groups profit before tax and exceptional items, their contribution to the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we significant risk areas and to provide sufficient evidence over each line have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is item in the Groups financial statements.
We determined the audit appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can work that needed to be performed by us, as the Group engagement be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups team, or by local teams within PwC UK or from other PwC network and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Where the work was performed by local audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit Other required reporting work for those entities to be able to conclude whether sufficient Consistency of other information appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors In connection with this years audit the Group team met with all the Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is local audit teams responsible for each of the 13 entities identified as consistent with the financial statements.
being significant to the scope of the Group audit, as well as holding regular discussions with those teams throughout the audit process.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting In addition we met with the Schroders centralised finance teams in Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Singapore, Luxembourg and Switzerland.
information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and materially inconsistent with the information in to report.
a number of Group items, including valuation of goodwill and the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or intangibles, and employee benefits expense, were audited by materially inconsistent with, our knowledge the Group engagement team.
of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Materiality otherwise misleading.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
the statement given by the Directors on page We have no exceptions We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together 87, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK to report.
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of Corporate Governance Code the Code, that our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures they consider the Annual Report taken as on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on and provides the information necessary for the financial statements as a whole.
members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for with our knowledge of the Group and Company the financial statements as a whole as follows: acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report pages 59 to We have no exceptions Overall Group materiality 30.4 million 2014: 28.3 million.
64, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, to report.
describing the work of the Audit and Risk How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Committee does not appropriately address Rationale for benchmark Profit before tax is a standard benchmark matters communicated by us to the Audit applied used in determining materiality.
We have and Risk Committee.
adjusted it for exceptional items given the one-off nature of these items, which would distort the basis of the calculation.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.5 million 2014: 1.75 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
156 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial report The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group Responsibilities for the financial statements and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency and the audit or liquidity of the Group Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: set out on page 87, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true the Directors confirmation on page 37 of the We have nothing material and fair view.
Annual Report, in accordance with provision to add or to draw C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a attention to.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & its business model, future performance, Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing solvency or liquidity.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that We have nothing material describe those risks and explain how they to add or to draw This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and are being managed or mitigated.
only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other the Directors explanation on page 37 of the We have nothing material purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Annual Report, in accordance with provision to add or to draw responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed attention to.
the prospects of the Group, over what period this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where they have done so and why they consider that expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation What an audit of financial statements involves that the Group will be able to continue in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable over the period of their assessment, including assurance that the financial statements are free from material any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and consistently applied and adequately disclosed: only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment by the Directors: and with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing our review.
the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Adequacy of accounting records and information and financial statements.
explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, We test and examine information, using sampling and other in our opinion: auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to we have not received all the information and explanations provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain we require for our audit: or audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with audited financial statements and to identify any information that is the accounting records and returns.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the for and on behalf of  LLP Companies Act 2006.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Other Companies Act 2006 reporting 2 March 2016 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from a The maintenance and integrity of the Schroders plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not this responsibility.
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial Corporate governance statement statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Corporate Governance Statement relating to 10 further provisions dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 157 In Europe and the Middle With 14 offices in 12 countries across Europe and Middle East, we manage 64 billion of East, we benefit from deep clients assets.
This includes Intermediary, client relationships and where we typically work through bank distribution networks, Institutional, including strong brand recognition.
pension funds and sovereign wealth funds, and Wealth Management, where we have offices in Switzerland, Germany, Italy, Spain and Gibraltar.
We have recently established a presence in South Africa.
In 2015, we saw net inflows from the region of 3.6 billion across Fixed Income, Multi-asset and Equity strategies.
In focus: Italy Italy has been the stand out success in the region in recent years, generating net new business of 1.3 billion in 2015 and 5.7 billion over the last three years.
Europe, Middle East and Africa offices Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Cape Town, Dubai, Frankfurt, Geneva, Gibraltar, Luxembourg, Madrid, Milan, Paris, Rome, Stockholm, Zurich Investment offices.
158 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Shareholder information Shareholder information Shareholder information 160 Five year consolidated 162 financial summary Glossary 163 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 159 9
