Independent Auditors Report To the members of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Opinion on Financial Statements of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 October 2015 and of the companys profit for the year then ended: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Cash Flow Statement, Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts.
Going Concern and the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks That Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Company As required by the Listing Rules, we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within accounting policy a to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the company contained within the Strategic Report on page 7.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 6 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 19 and 39 to 44 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in accounting policy a to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 7 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation and ownership of listed investments We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: Listed investments of 772.3m 2014: 764.8m represent the most significant number on the balance sheet and critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls are the main driver of the companys performance.
over valuation and ownership of investments: Listed investments represented 91.9% 2014: 90.9% reviewed the Northern Trust controls report to understand and of total assets of the company at 31 October 2015 evaluate the design and implementation of controls around see accounting policy b and note 8. ownership of investments: confirmed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the There is a risk that the prices quoted in respect of the investment ledger at year end to closing bid prices published by listed investments held by the company may not be an independent pricing source: and reflective of fair value.
There is a risk over whether listed confirmed 100% of the companys investment portfolio at the year end investments recorded are the property of the company.
to confirmations received directly from the custodian and depositary.
Report & Accounts 2015 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 23 Independent Auditors Report continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Recognition of investment income We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: Dividend income of 23.8m 2014: 19.5m represents 98.7% 2014: 98.2% of the total income of the trust critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls see note 1. over revenue recognition including managements monitoring of accuracy and completeness of revenue: Dividends from equity shares are accounted for on an for a sample of investments held, agreed the ex-dividend dates and ex-dividend basis.
Overseas dividends are accounted rates for dividends declared during the year and agreed the amounts for on an ex-dividend basis and included gross of recorded within the general ledger to confirm that the recognition withholding tax.
policy has been applied consistently: and agreed a sample of dividend income receipts to bank statements.
There is a risk that revenue is incomplete.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the audit committee discussed on page 19.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our Application of Materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the company to be 7.3m 2014: 7.3m, which is 1% 2014: 1% of net assets.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 147,000 2014:147,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An Overview of the Scope of Our Audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on Which We are Required to Report by Exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006, we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
24 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report continued Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules, we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge CA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, Edinburgh, United Kingdom 14 December 2015 Report & Accounts 2015 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 25
