Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 107 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overview Materiality Our opinion Overall Group materiality represents 5% of profit before tax: In our opinion, St. Jamess Place plcs Group financial statements 8.5 million, 2014: 15 million.
the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Audit Scope at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the The Group is structured to reflect its vertically integrated year then ended: insurance and wealth management business and operates have been properly prepared in accordance with International predominantly within the United Kingdom.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of six financially significant reporting entities, comprising the the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Groups operating businesses and the St. Jamess Place Unit Trusts.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report Areas of Focus and Accounts 2015 the Annual Report, comprise: Recognition of revenue.
the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015: Recoverability of deferred tax asset arising from historic the consolidated statement of comprehensive income capital losses.
for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year Valuation of the prepayment asset in respect of an then ended: administration platform at an outsourced provider.
the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and Existence and valuation of financial investments and the notes to the financial statements, which include a investment property.
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing statements and are identified as audited.
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and estimates that involved making assumptions and considering IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal Our audit approach controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias Context by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement This years audit focused on the core aspects of the business such due to fraud.
as the recognition of revenue, and existence and valuation of financial investments.
Developments during the year included The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect in particular the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, assets on the winding up of SJP Partnership and SJP 1990 are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
With the Groups outsourced operating model for also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific administration, we also continued to look at the valuation of areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements the prepayment asset held in the balance sheet in relation to as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our the recently implemented administration platform.
procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 108 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We assessed the critical accounting estimates and judgements Recognition of revenue as set out in Note 2 to the financial statements that had a See Note 2 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosure of direct impact on revenue.
Specifically we: critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting substantively tested the deferred income and acquisition policies for further information.
costs and the amortisation of DIR and DAC, including assessing the future profitability of the products to which ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue the income and acquisition costs related to ensure that recognition because of the pressure management may feel to profitability was sufficient to support the carrying value of achieve market expectations.
In this regard we focused on the deferred balances: and transactions which included a judgemental element in their confirmed substantively the classification of the Groups calculation, typical within the life insurance industry, as set products between insurance and investment business to out in Note 2 to the financial statements.
check that insurance product revenue was appropriately included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive We focused specifically on the following: income and investment business except for fees related to Deferral of income and acquisition costs and amortisation of investment contract management was excluded.
Deferred Income Reserve DIR, and Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC under IFRS methodology.
In the year, the net We confirmed that there were no new reinsurance movement of DIR of 49.7 million was recognised as revenue arrangements and agreed sample of premiums ceded to see Note4 and 32.1 million of acquisition costs were invoice.
deferred and 100.1 million of DAC was amortised see Note 6 : and Our work on the above areas of judgement was supported by Classification of the Groups products between insurance and controls testing and substantive procedures over all material investment business to ensure that investment business is revenue streams including: deposit accounted in the consolidated statement of financial reconciling fees on investment business to confirmatory position.
documentation provided by the asset custodian, State Street: We also considered the recognition of income or costs which testing internal controls over the accuracy and may have a close relationship to earned insurance premiums and occurrence of revenue recognised in the financial fees, in accordance with Auditing Practices Board Practice Note statements: 20 The audit of insurers in the United Kingdom, such as obtaining and reading the International Standard on reinsurance costs.
The Group fully reinsures the UK insurance Assurance Engagements ISAE 3402 Assurance Reports risk of its closed book of protection business and therefore we on Controls at a Service Organisation for International focused on whether the 32.6 million of premium income Financial Data Services IFDS, in particular focusing on associated with this business that was reversed out of the the controls designed to prevent and detect fraud consolidated statement of comprehensive income was complete.
operating over the Group unit trust business administration system owned and operated by IFDS: following migration of certain products to a new administration system also operated by IFDS, obtaining and reading an agreed upon procedures AUP report prepared by an independent third party for the Directors in respect of the relevant controls: and testing a sample of journal entries posted throughout the year to revenue accounts that met specific criteria to identify unusual or irregular items.
There were no issues in the ISAE 3402 report or AUP that impacted our audit scope.
Overall, we noted no material exceptions in our testing and found the judgements taken by the Directors to be reasonable.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 109 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recoverability of deferred tax asset arising from historic capital losses We assessed the basis of the capital losses that gave rise to the See Notes 2 and 13 to the financial statements for the Directors additional 74.8 million deferred tax asset, and had PwC tax disclosure of determining the value of deferred tax assets for further specialists evaluate the advice received by management from information.
An additional deferred tax asset of 74.8 million was recognised We considered the application of relevant taxation legislation during the year following managements investigation of historic and accounting standards around the recognition of the capital losses crystallising within the Group on the planned deferred tax asset as a whole.
winding-up of SJP Partnership and SJP 1990 Limited see Note 13, bringing the total asset at the year end to 113.1 million.
We examined correspondence between the Group and HMRC to confirm that, on the evidence provided, the We focused on this item due to the magnitude and complex capital losses are expected to be available.
nature of the balance, requiring technical knowledge of tax, and the judgements involved in forecasting future capital growth and We assessed the Groups forecasts for the utilisation of the gains in future years in Group companies to offset against the losses against future capital gains, including assessing the capital losses.
We challenged the asset growth assumptions used by the Directors in the calculation of forecast capital gains and compared these to relevant benchmarks including for example average dividend yield and index growth versus RPI for relevant market indices.
We checked the information disclosed in the financial statements back to the supporting records and calculations.
No issues were noted in the work performed.
Valuation of the prepayment asset in respect of the development of a In testing whether the asset was valued appropriately and whether an impairment was necessary we: new administration platform at an outsourced provider carried out tests of details on the payments to IFDS See the Report of the Audit Committee for further information and Notes associated with the new operational services agreement: 2, 16 and 26 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosure of assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying other receivables and payables.
managements discounted cashflow calculating the anticipated cost savings that support the valuation of the The Group is charged costs by IFDS in respect of ensuring prepaid cost asset in the consolidated statement of financial operational readiness of a new policy administration platform.
These costs are recognised as a prepayment to be unwound over the duration of the related service agreement with IFDS once We also agreed the cost savings for 2015 to the new service benefits are received from use of the system, and the balance of tariffs against the legacy platform tariff.
We sensitised the the prepayment at 31 December 2015 was 87.9 million.
The inflation and discount rate assumptions as well as business maximum prepayment that can be recognised is capped at the flow to determine the potential impact of changes in these net present value of future cost savings.
variables on the present value of future savings to check whether they would affect the carrying value of the asset Due to the nature and magnitude of the amounts arising from this year.
the contractual terms the valuation of the prepayment asset was an area of audit focus.
We noted no material exceptions in our procedures and we determined that the disclosure of the transactions in the financial statements was appropriate.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 110 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Existence and valuation of financial investments and investment We agreed the existence of holdings of the financial property investment portfolio to confirmatory documentation See Note 27 to the financial statement for the Directors disclosure of received directly from independent custodians as at year end.
financial risk for further information.
We independently agreed the existence of a sample of Financial investments and investment properties were an area of holdings of investment properties at year end to the Land focus for our testing, in particular the judgemental valuations Register maintained by the Land Registry.
of investment properties and derivatives, due to the magnitude of the balances.
We obtained and read the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3402 Assurance Reports on The Group outsources investment custodian and valuation Controls at a Service Organisation for State Streets Global activities to State Street.
Our audit procedures therefore Fund Accounting and Custody operations, which provided considered the evidence available over the reliability of these a description of the systems and controls in place and outsourced processes.
the results of testing of the operational effectiveness of those controls.
Where appropriate we placed reliance on the controls described in the ISAE 3402 report over the valuation and existence of the financial investments within the portfolio.
We independently re-priced a sample of derivative investments as at year end.
We also independently re-priced a sample of equity, fixed income and collective investment scheme investments at the year end to complement our controls reliance.
We agreed our independent prices to those provided by State Street.
For investment properties we tested the inputs to the valuation process and tested the reasonableness of the rental yield assumptions used by the Directors in the valuation of the portfolio by reference to industry accepted benchmarks.
We found no material exceptions in our testing.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 111 Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality How we tailored the audit scope for the financial statements as a whole as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Overall Group 8.5 million 2014: 15 million.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic materiality structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
outsources a large proportion of its back office administration Rationale for Profit before tax is a generally accepted services to IFDS, Capita and State Street: accordingly the benchmark applied auditing benchmark.
Prior year financially significant business processes performed for the materiality was calculated based on Group by these outsourcer services providers were addressed approximately 8% of profit before tax in our audit.
attributable to shareholders returns, which was approximately 5% of profit The Group financial statements are a consolidation including before tax.
six financially significant business units, all of which are subject Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, to an audit of their complete financial information, comprising we allocated a materiality that was less the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions than our overall Group materiality.
and the consolidated St. Jamess Place Unit Trusts.
The six The range of materiality allocated across financially significant business units required an audit of their components was between 4.0 million complete financial information due to their size and or their and 7.0 million.
were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our In order to gain sufficient coverage of allfinancial statement line overall Group materiality.
items we also carried out audit procedures on balances of certain other entities that contributed over 5% to specific line items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report This scope provided us with audit coverage calculated on an to them misstatements identified during our audit above absolute basis as a percentage of the total balances in excess of 0.425 million 2014: 0.75 million as well as misstatements 90% for each of Profit before tax, Revenue and Total Assets.
below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed Going concern at the business units by us, as the Group engagement team, or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the component auditors from other PwC network firms operating Directors statement, set out on page 104, in relation to under our instruction.
The Group team completed all work going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed on the financially significant components with the exception our review.
of St. Jamess Place International Plc Eire Limited based in Dublin.
Wedetermined the scope of work for a component team Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you from PwC Ireland and maintained regular contact with them if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to during the course of their work.
in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in Together with additional procedures performed at the preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material consolidated level, this scope of work gave us the evidence we to add or to draw attention to.
needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis Materiality in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis The scope of our audit was influenced by our application presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 112 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC CONTINUED OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the Consistency of other information principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of Companies Act 2006 opinions the Group In our opinion: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if the information given in the Strategic Report and the we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in Directors Report for the financial year for which the relation to: financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Directors confirmation on page We have nothing the information given in the Corporate Governance 100 of the Annual Report, in material to add or to Statement set out in the Governance section with respect accordance with provision C. 2.1 of draw attention to.
to internal control and risk management systems and the Code, that they have carried out about share capital structures is consistent with the a robust assessment of the principal financial statements.
risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, or liquidity.
in our opinion: the disclosures in the Annual Report We have nothing information in the Annual Report We have no exceptions to that describe those risks and explain material to add or to is: report.
how they are being managed or draw attention to.
materially inconsistent with the mitigated.
information in the audited financial the Directors explanation on page We have nothing statements: or 42 of the Annual Report, in material to add or to apparently materially incorrect accordance with provision C. 2.2 of draw attention to.
based on, or materially inconsistent the Code, as to how they have with, our knowledge of the Group assessed the prospects of the Group, acquired in the course of over what period they have done so performing our audit: or and why they consider that period to otherwise misleading.
be appropriate, and their statement the statement given by the We have no exceptions to as to whether they have a reasonable Directors on page 73 in accordance report.
expectation that the Group will be with provision C. 1.1 of the UK able to continue in operation and Corporate Governance Code the meet its liabilities as they fall due Code, that they consider the over the period of their assessment, Annual Report taken as a whole to including any related disclosures be fair, balanced and drawing attention to any necessary understandable and provides the qualifications or assumptions.
information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors business model and strategy is statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the materially inconsistent with our principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in knowledge of the Group acquired relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was in the course of performing our substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of audit.
making inquiries and considering the Directors process The section of the Annual Report We have no exceptions to supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in on page 70, as required by report.
alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and provision C. 3.8 of the Code, considering whether the statements are consistent with the describing the work of the Audit knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Committee does not appropriately We have nothing to report having performed our review.
address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 113 We test and examine information, using sampling and other Directors remuneration auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Corporate governance statement information in the Annual Report to identify material Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect prepared by the parent company.
We have no exceptions to based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge report arising from this responsibility.
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
OTHER MATTERS We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 105, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the London financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 22 March 2016 UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
a The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
