184 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP SUPPLEMENTARY RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUROPEAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Our opinion Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of In our opinion, St. Jamess Place plc the Group the supplementary financial statements in accordance with the Supplementary Financial Statements European Embedded EEV basis set out in Note I Basis of preparation.
Value Basis the supplementary financial statements for the year ended 31December 2015 have been properly prepared, in Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the all material respects, in accordance with the European supplementary financial statements in accordance with applicable Embedded Value EEV basis set out in Note I Basis of law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland preparation.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Emphasis of matter Basis of preparation forAuditors.
In forming our opinion on the supplementary financial statements, which is not modified, we draw attention to Note I This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and Basis of Preparation which explains that, as permitted by the only for the Companys Directors as a body in conformity with additional guidance issued in October 2015 by the European the methodology and disclosure requirements contained in the Insurance CFO Forum, the supplementary financial statements document Supplementary Reporting for Long Term Insurance have been prepared making no allowance for the impact of Business the European Embedded Value Method issued by the Solvency II regulatory requirements.
CFO forum, in accordance with our engagement letter dated 8January 2016 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving What we have audited this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other The St. Jamess Place plcs supplementary financial statements purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or comprise: into whose hands it may come, including without limitation the consolidated statement of financial position, European under any contractual obligations of the Company, save where Embedded Value Basis as at 31 December 2015: expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the consolidated statement of income, European Embedded Value Basis for the year then ended: What an audit of financial statements involves the consolidated statement of changes in equity, European We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Embedded Value Basis as at 31 December 2015 for the year Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts then ended: and and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the notes to the supplementary financial statements, which reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from should be read in conjunction with the Groups financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and preparation of the supplementary financial statements is the EEV adequately disclosed: basis set out in Note I Basis of preparation.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and In applying the EEV basis, the Directors have made a number the overall presentation of the financial statements.
of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the made assumptions and considered future events as set out in Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Note III Assumptions.
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the supplementary financial statements.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 185 We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited supplementary financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
 LLP Chartered Accountants London 22 March 2016 Notes: a The supplementary interim financial information is published on the website of St. Jamess Place Plc, www.
The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
