Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 175 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC REPORT ON THE PARENT COMPANY Adequacy of accounting records and information and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Our opinion if, in our opinion: In our opinion, St. Jamess Place plcs parent company financial we have not received all the information and explanations we statements the financial statements : require for our audit: or give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent affairs as at 31 December 2015: company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been have been properly prepared in accordance with United received from branches not visited by us: or Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the Companies Act 2006. the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
St. Jamess Place plcs financial statements comprise: the balance sheet of the parent company as at Directors remuneration 31 December 2015: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 summary of significant accounting policies and other opinion explanatory information.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere Companies Act 2006. in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from Other Companies Act 2006 reporting the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and arising from this responsibility.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL Reduced Disclosure Framework.
STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the Directors OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Consistency of other information Responsibilities set out on page 105, the Directors are Companies Act 2006 opinion responsible for the preparation of the financial statements In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: and only for the parent companys members as a body in materially inconsistent with the information in the audited accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act financial statements: or 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into acquired in the course of performing our audit: or whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 176 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT continued What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 22 March 2016 a The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
