SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 56 Independent auditors report to the members of SVG Capital plc Our audit opinion on the financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: k give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 January 2015 and of its profit for the period then ended: k have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and k have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit opinion on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: k the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and k the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of SVG Capital plc for the period ended 31 January 2015 which comprise the Income Statement, the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: k whether the accounting policies applied are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: k the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and k the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on or materially inconsistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement and our audit response The material risk of misstatement that has had the greatest impact on our audit strategy and approach for the period ended 31 January 2015 including the allocation of resources and the directing of efforts of the engagement team, is that the valuation of the investment funds held in the investment portfolio is incorrect as mentioned in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report on page 36.
Our response to the risk identified was as follows: We checked the net asset value in the quarterly valuation information provided by the underlying general partners or administrators of the investments funds, to substantiate the fund fair values and to assess whether the information was in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation guidelines.
We checked the accuracy of prior period fund valuations to the respective audited financial statements of the funds to assess the historical accuracy of the valuation estimates.
We considered the appropriateness of adjustments, if any, made by the Company to the amounts reported by the underlying general partners or administrators to arrive at fair value at the reporting date and obtained appropriate audit evidence.
Where there were significant underlying quoted investments we agreed the price per share to an independent source.
In addition, we agreed holdings in investments to information provided by the underlying general partners or administrators.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Financial information 57 Our application of materiality In accordance with the scope of our audit, we defined materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 11.1 million, which is 1% of total equity 2013: 12.2 million based on 1% of total equity.
We derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion of total equity as we considered it to be the most important financial metric on which Shareholders would judge the performance of the Company.
We applied the concept of materiality for the purposes of obtaining sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from material misstatement.
For this reason, we also defined a separate performance materiality threshold which reflected our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account balance and was set as a proportion of our overall materiality.
Our objective in setting the performance materiality threshold was to identify the amount of testing required in respect of each balance to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of any uncorrected and undetected misstatements in the financial statements as a whole exceeded our materiality level.
We determined performance materiality for the Company to be 50% of materiality, or 5.6 million 2013: 6.1 million.
We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements and potential audit differences against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report any audit differences in excess of 559,000 2013: 610,000, as well as any differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We applied the concept of materiality in planning and performing our audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on our audit and of uncorrected misstatements on the financial statements, and in forming our audit opinion.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined the magnitude of omissions or uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material to the financial statements as a whole.
This provided a basis for determining the nature of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We are required by the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules to report to you by exception if certain matters are identified during the course of our audit.
These matters are listed below and we have nothing to report in respect of any of these matters.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: k materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or k apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course ofperforming our audit: or k otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: k adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or k the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or k certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or k we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: k the Directors Statement, set out on page 38, in relation to going concern: and k the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Andrew McIntyre Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 23 March 2015
