INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Companys loss for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Temple Bar Investment Trust PLCs financial statements comprise: Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2015 Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2015 Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2015 Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 December 2015 Related notes 1 to 23 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Incorrect valuation and existence of the investment portfolio.
Incomplete or inaccurate income recognition through failure to recognise proper income entitlements or apply appropriate accounting treatment Significant risk and Fraud risk.
Audit scope We performed an audit of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC.
Materiality Materiality of 7.6m which represents 1% of total equity 2014: 7.9m.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Incorrect valuation and existence of the We performed the following For all investments, we noted no material investment portfolio as described on page procedures: differences in market value or exchange rates.
27 in the Report of the Audit Committee.
We have independently valued 100% We noted no differences between the The valuation of the portfolio at of the investment prices in the portfolio custodian and depositary confirmations and 31 December 2015 was 856m 2014: using our bespoke asset pricing tool.
the Companys underlying financial records.
874m comprising 778m 2014: 762m For those investments priced in of listed equities and 78m 2014: 112m currencies other than sterling we of corporate bonds.
have agreed the exchange rates to The valuation of the assets held in the an independent source.
investment portfolio is the key driver of the We independently obtained Companys net asset value and total return.
confirmations from the Companys Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to maintain custodian and depositary to confirm proper legal title of the assets held by the the existence of the assets held as at Company could have a significant impact on 31 December 2015. portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 30 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Incomplete or inaccurate income We performed the following We noted no issues in agreeing the recognition through failure to recognise procedures: sample of dividend and interest receipts proper income entitlements or to and from the independent source.
We agreed, on a sample basis, apply appropriate accounting dividend and interest receipts to We noted no issues in agreeing the treatment Significant and Fraud risk an independent source.
accrued dividend and interest receipts as described on page 27 in the Report to an independent source.
We agreed, on a sample basis, investee company dividend announcements We ensured that the accounting treatment Most of the Companys income is received and fixed interest coupon dates from adopted for the special dividends was in the form of dividends and interest from an independent source to the income consistent with the evidence provided fixed income investments, being 30m 2014: recorded by the Company.
and our understanding of the underlying 27m and 1m 2014: 3m respectively for circumstances giving rise to the related the period.
We agreed all accrued dividends dividends.
and fixed interest to an independent Given the judgemental aspect of allocating source.
special dividends between revenue and capital and the risk of management override We performed a walkthrough of the from processing of topside journals, we process for the allocation of special consider this an area warranting specific dividends between revenue and capital audit focus.
and considered the effectiveness of controls in place.
We reviewed the recognition criteria applied to the special dividends received during the year and assessed the appropriateness of the conclusion on the relevant treatment as documented by the Manager.
In the prior year, our auditors report included only a risk of material misstatement in relation to the valuation and existence of the investment portfolio.
In the current year, we also recognise a risk of material misstatement in relation to the recognition of revenue.
We have assessed this as a fraud risk and a significant risk this year as investment income receivable by the Company during the period directly affects the Companys ability to pay a dividend to shareholders and judgement is used in allocating special dividends between revenue and capital.
Potentially, these factors could give the Manager both the incentive and the opportunity to misstate the revenue of the Company in order to meet shareholder expectations.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
The Company is a single component and we perform a full audit on this Company.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined planning materiality for the Company to be 7.6m 2014: 7.9m, which is 1% of total equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We derived our materiality calculation from a proportion of total equity as we consider that to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge the performance of the Company.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 31 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Company should be 75% of planning materiality, being 5.7m 2014: 5.9m.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total undetected and uncorrected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company we also applied a separate testing threshold of 1.3m 2014: 1.2m for the revenue column of the Income Statement, being 5% of the return on ordinary activities before taxation.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of 0.4m 2014: 0.4m as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 29, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 32 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no Ireland reporting information in the annual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no 2006 reporting exceptions to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern set out on page 19, and longer term viability, set out on page 14: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or We have nothing Ireland reporting to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Ashley Coups Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 23 February 2016 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 33 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 34 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC RE REP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RNA NANC NCE E R RE EPOR PORT T F FIINA NANC NCIIA AL L R RE EPOR PORT T S SH HA AR REH EHOL OLD DER ER I IN NF FO OR RM MA AT TIIO ON N FINANCIAL REPORT 36 Statement of Comprehensive Income 37 Statement of Changes in Equity 38 Statement of Financial Position 39 Statement of Cash Flows 40 Notes to the Financial Statements TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 35
