Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of In our opinion the financial statements: Templeton Emerging Markets Investment t give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at Trust Plc 31 March 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: t have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts: and t have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act2006.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Changes in Equity, Cash Flow Statement, Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 16.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Report on pages 49 to 68 that the Company is a going concern.
We confirm that: t we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and t we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that materialmisstatement had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation and ownership of investments We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: The investments of the Company 1,941m make up 95% of total net assets 2,045m.
Please see Accounting Policy t critically assessed the design and implementation f and note 5. of the controls over valuation and ownership of investments: Investments listed on recognised exchanges are valued at the closing bid price at the year end.
t agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the investment ledger at year end to closing bid There is a risk that investments may not be valued correctly prices published by an independent pricing source: or may not represent the property of the Company.
t agreed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year end to confirmation received directly from the custodian and depositary: and t evaluated a report prepared by the Manager on the design and operation of controls at the custodian.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 77 Independent Auditors Report continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition, completeness and cut off We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: The Company invests in Emerging Markets where there is a risk that not all dividend information is captured in a timely t critically assessed the design and implementation of manner and, as a result, revenue maybe incomplete or controls relating to revenue recognition at the Manager: recognised in the incorrect period.
t tested cut off around the balance sheet date by testing Please see note 1. post year-end receipts: and t selected a sample of investments, obtained ex dividend dates and rates for dividends declared during the year and agreed the amounts to the income received report and Bank Statement.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 73 to 75.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 20.4m 2014: 19.1m, which is 1% 2014: 1% of net assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all audit differences in excess of 409,000 2014: 383,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by In our opinion: the Companies Act 2006 t the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and t the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
78 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our and accounting records opinion: t we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or t adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or t the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required the Annual Report to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: t materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or t apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or t PUIFSXJTF NJTMFBEJOH In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directorsand auditor Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 79 Independent Auditors Report continued Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures financialstatements in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify anyinformation that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge CA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, Edinburgh, United Kingdom 12 June 2015 80 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
