GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report to the Members of TR Property Investment Trust plc do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Opinion on financial statements the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our In our opinion: audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
l The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Companys affairs as at 31 March Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 2015 and of the Groups return for the year then ended: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 42 the directors are responsible for l The Group financial statements have been properly the preparation of the financial statements and for being prepared in accordance with International Financial satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in l The Companys financial statements have been properly accordance with applicable law and International Standards on prepared in accordance with International Financial Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
and as applied in accordance with the requirements of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Companies Act 2006: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and l The financial statements have been prepared in disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups or Companys Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies circumstances and have been consistently applied and Act 2006 adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant In our opinion: accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall l The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Companies Act 2006: and Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is l The information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially statements are prepared is consistent with the financial inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent statements.
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the What we have audited implications for our report.
We have audited the financial statements of TR Property Control over the recording and reporting of financial Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 which information and preparation of the financial statements for the comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Group and the subsidiaries is carried out by the Companys administrator, BNP and overseen by Thames River and the Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Balance Audit Committee in London.
The Group audit team has Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Cash audited all items material to the Group and Parent Company Flows and the related notes 1 to 23.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is financial statements.
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Our assessment of risks of material misstatement as adopted by the European Union.
We identified the following risks of material misstatement that This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The Audit Committee have set out their Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters assessment of the significant issues in relation to the financial we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for statements on page 35.
The table also includes our responses no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we to the risks: TR Property Investment Trust 43 GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report continued Risk Identified Our Response The investment portfolio at the year-end comprised of quoted l We walked through the controls in place at the accounting equities 973,470,000, investment properties administrator, BNP Paribas Securities Services over listed 75,434,000, contracts for difference 10,604,000, fixed security pricing and holdings.
interest 6,998,000 and an unquoted equity investment l We reviewed the Service Organisation Controls Report 86,000.
Note 10 to the financial statements sets out the prepared in accordance with AAF 01 06 of BNP Paribas Groups investments held at fair value.
Securities Services for the year ended 31 December 2014, The valuation of the assets held in the investment portfolio is the reporting accountant for which was Mazars, and did a key driver of the Companys investment return.
not identify exceptions in controls related to the valuation of securities.
Incorrect asset pricing of the assets held by the Group could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation and, therefore, l We agreed the year-end prices of each of the quoted the return generated for shareholders.
equities, contracts for difference and fixed interest securities to an independent source.
l We performed a walkthrough of the property valuation process, including the controls in place over the provision of valuation data to the valuer and review of the valuations by Thames River Capital.
l We evaluated the independence and qualifications of Deloitte LLP in accordance with International Standard on Auditing 620 Using the Work of an Expert.
l We engaged EY property valuation experts to review the inputs, assumptions and valuation methods used by Deloitte LLP for a sample of investment properties.
We concluded that the assumptions and methods used in establishing the valuations were appropriate.
l We reviewed the methods and assumptions used by Thames River Capital to assess the valuation of the unquoted equity investment.
The valuation of the unquoted investment is below our performance materiality threshold and as a result our testing was restricted to assessing the likelihood that the valuation was materially understated.
44 TR Property Investment Trust Independent Auditors Report continued Risk Identified Our Response Failure to maintain proper legal title of the assets held by the l We reviewed the Service Organisation Controls Report Group could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation prepared in accordance with AAF 01 06 of BNP Paribas and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
Securities Services for the year ended 31 December 2014, the reporting accountant for which was Mazars, and did not identify exceptions in controls related to the execution and recording of securities transactions.
l We agreed the number of shares held for each security to confirmations of legal title received from the Companys custodian and depositary BNP Paribas Security Services.
l We agreed the contracts for difference held at the yearend to an independent confirmation from the broker, ING Bank NV.
l We independently confirmed with the Companys solicitors that the Company holds title deeds to all investment properties and that they are free from any liens or charges.
Management and performance fees represent the Companys l We walked through the systems and controls of the largest expenses and the performance fee is calculated using a accounting administrator, BNP Paribas Securities Services, methodology as set out in the Ordinary Management in respect of the calculation of management and Agreement between the Company and the Manager.
calculation methodology for management and performance l We re-performed the management and performance fee fees is given in the Report of the Directors on pages 30 and calculations and confirmed they were performed in line 31.
Note 5 to the financial statements sets out the with the methodology set out in the Ordinary Management management and performance fees for the year ended Agreement.
31 March 2015. l We validated the external inputs used in the calculation to Incorrect calculation of these fees could have a material third party data.
impact on the return generated for shareholders.
l We tested the allocation of management and performance fees between the income and capital return columns of the Income Statement and confirmed it had been performed in line with the accounting policy set out on page 51.
TR Property Investment Trust 45 Independent Auditors Report continued In particular, we are required to consider whether we have Our application of materiality We determined planning materiality for the Group to be identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that 10.1m 2014: 8.1m which is 1% of total equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement and determining the nature, discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We have derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion of total equity Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to as we consider it to be the most important financial metric on you if, in our opinion: which shareholders would judge the performance of the l Adequate accounting records have not been kept, or Group and Company.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our from branches not visited by us: or assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our l The financial statements and the part of the Directors judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance with the accounting records and returns: or for the Group should be 75% of planning materiality, namely 7.6m 2014: 6.1m.
Our objective in adopting this approach l Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by was to ensure that total undetected and uncorrected audit law are not made: or differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning l We have not received all the information and explanations materiality level.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: capital for the Group we have also applied a separate performance materiality of 1.6m 2014: 1.5m for the l The Directors statement, set out on page 31 in relation to revenue column of the Income Statement, being 5% of the going concern: and return on ordinary activities before taxation.
l The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of audit differences in excess of 505,000 2014: 405,000 as the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, review.
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Ashley Coups We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the Senior Statutory Auditor qualitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Statutory Auditor London Matters on which we are required to report by 9 June 2015 exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: l Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or l Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or l Otherwise misleading.
