Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc the Directors statement in Note 2 to the Financial Statements Opinion on Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the ofTullettPrebonplc goingconcern basis of accounting in preparing them and their In our opinion: identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and ofthe Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year the Directors explanation on pages 37 and 38 as to how they thenended: have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in appropriate, andtheir statement as to whether they have a accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basisof accounting and we did not identify any such material the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Independence the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are related notes 1 to 37, the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity and related notes responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law services referred to in those standards.
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the The assessed risks of material misstatement described below preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is arethose that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS ofthe engagement team.
The assessed risks of material misstatement we identified are: Going concern and the Directors assessment of the Matched Principal revenue: principal risks that would threaten the solvency or Name Passing revenue: liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors impairment of goodwill and other intangibles: and statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern valuation of group tax provisions.
basis of accounting contained within Note 2 to the Financial Last year, our report also included the acquisition of PVM Oil Statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term Associates Limited PVM as a significant risk.
This risk has not viability of the Group contained within Directors Report on pages been included in the current year as the acquisition of PVM was 37 and 38.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in completed in 2014. relation to: The description of risks below should be read in conjunction with the Directors confirmation on page 24 that they have carried out the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, on page 34. including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 19 to 24 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: 54 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Risks How the scope of our audit responded Matched Principal revenue As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on We tested the design, implementation and operating page 64, Matched Principal brokerage revenue is the net proceeds effectiveness of relevant controls relating to trade recording, from a commitment to simultaneously buy and sell financial settlement and the recognition of revenue associated with instruments with counterparties, which is recognised on trade Matched Principal transactions.
It accounts for approximately 20% of Broking revenue.
We selected a sample of trades which settled within standard Given the high volume of transactions, robust internal controls settlement periods and confirmed each to cash receipts.
For all over trade recording and settlement are important to ensure the open trades at year-end that did not settle within the standard completeness and accuracy of revenues.
Most Matched Principal settlement period or where settlement had failed, we confirmed transactions settle within a standard market settlement period, trades to post year-end confirmations to determine the validity of which is typically two to three business days.
The risk of the year-end settlement debtors and creditors and accuracy of the misstatement of revenue increases where trades fail to settle associated revenue.
within the standard market settlement period.
Name Passing revenue As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on We tested the design, implementation and operating page 64, Name Passing revenue is earned for the service of effectiveness of relevant controls relating to Name Passing matching buyers and sellers of financial instruments.
The invoicing and cash collection.
counterparties to a transaction settle directly with each other and are invoiced for the service provided by the Group.
It accounts for We confirmed a sample of trades to cash received throughout approximately 75% of Broking revenue.
We agreed a further sample of Name Passing transactions, which were outstanding at year-end, to cash As invoices for services provided are not issued until the end of the received post year-end.
We tested the aged debtor analysis month, the cash collection period is typically longer than for through re-performance and, focusing on higher risk aged items, Matched Principal revenue.
As a result, the risk of misstatement of we confirmed that revenue recognised on the transaction was revenue increases where the invoice becomes past due and where supportable by obtaining evidence to corroborate the validity post year-end trade adjustments or credit notes arise.
ofthe underlying trade and reviewing communications with counterparties.
We tested a sample of post year-end trade adjustments and credit notes to evaluate whether these items were accurate and valid.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on We challenged the identification of the Groups CGUs, by checking pages 63 and 64, and Note 13 on page 78, goodwill and other whether the CGUs reflected the lowest aggregation of assets that intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually.
generate largely independent cash flows.
Determining whether the goodwill of 347.5m, other intangible assets of 22.1m and other intangible assets arising on We performed detailed analysis and challenge of managements consolidation of 9.9m are impaired requires an estimation of the assumptions used in the annual impairment review, in particular recoverable amount of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs, forecast future growth rates, the cash flow projections and using the higher of the value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
discount rates used by management in their impairment tests of the CGUs.
We challenged cash flow forecasts and growth rates by The value in use takes into account expected future cash flows, evaluating recent performance, trend analysis and comparing the selection of suitable discount rates and forecast future growth growth rates to those achieved historically and to external market rates and is therefore inherently subjective.
The value in use of all data where available.
Our internal valuations specialists CGUs is sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions.
independently derived discount rates which we compared to the rates used by management and we benchmarked discount and The value in use method was used to assess the recoverable growth rates to available external peer group data.
No impairment was recorded in the year forany of the CGUs.
As the impairment test for the EMEA CGU was sensitive to changes in the growth rate assumption, we assessed the breakeven point at which an impairment would occur and considered whether this was a reasonably possible change which required additional disclosure.
We evaluated the process by which cash flow forecasts were produced and confirmed whether those used in the annual impairment review were consistent with Board approved budgets and were subject to timely oversight and challenge by the Directors.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 55 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc continued Risks How the scope of our audit responded Taxation provisions As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on Using our tax specialists, we assessed relevant developments in pages 67 and 68, the Group has taken account of tax issues that respect of the Groups outstanding tax issues in each jurisdiction.
are subject to ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities in determining its current tax liability of 17.3m.
An We have reviewed correspondence with the relevant tax assessment of the likely outcome is required in determining the authorities, challenged the judgements made by management and carrying value of tax liabilities.
independently considered the likely outcomes and technical tax treatments to assess the appropriateness of the provisions made.
We have used both our own tax specialists knowledge of recent tax cases, and where available, external supporting data, to consider potential tax exposures for the Group where there is no current provision and to assess managements assumptions in determining provisions.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.9m, which is based on approximately 5% of underlying profit before tax of 93.7m andis below 1% of equity.
Prior year materiality was 4.3m, which was based on 5% of underlying profit before tax and was below 1%ofequity.
Underlying profit before tax has been determined by excluding exceptional and acquisition related items, which are detailed on page 73.
These items have been excluded from our determination of materiality as they do not reflect the ongoing trading performance of the business.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.1m 2014: 0.1m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit of 24 subsidiaries in 11 locations 2014: 23 subsidiaries in 11 locations.
The increasein subsidiaries relates to the inclusion of PVM Oil Futures Ltd, as a result of a full year of its results being included in the Groups consolidated results for the first time.
All of these subsidiaries were subject to a full audit or an audit of specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 24 subsidiaries represent the principal business units within each of the three operating segments.
The subsidiaries for which weperformed a full scope audit account for 94% 2014: 93% of the Groups net assets, 95% 2014: 96% of the Groups revenue and 96% 2014: 93% of the Groups profit before tax.
The subsidiaries were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audits of each of the subsidiaries were performed using lower levels of materiality based on their size relative to the Group.
The materiality for each subsidiary was capped at 2.95m 2014: 2.90m.
Net assets Revenue PBT 1% 1% 3% 5% 5% 94% 95% 96% Full scope Speci ed audit procedures Analytical procedures only 56 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Senior Statutory Auditor has responsibility for overseeing all In particular, we are required to consider whether we have aspects of the audit work of the component auditors.
The Senior identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired Statutory Auditor is also the lead audit partner for the EMEA during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider component.
In discharging this responsibility, he visited the US the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and andSingapore twice during the audit to meet local management whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters and to oversee the audits of the components based in the Americas that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider and Asia Pacific.
The Group audit team maintains a dialogue with should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not component auditors throughout all phases of the audit and identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
receives written reports from component auditors setting out Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor theresults of their audit procedures.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We tested the Groups consolidation process and carried out Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true risks of material misstatement in the aggregated financial and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on information of the remaining subsidiaries not subject to audit the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and oraudit of specified account balances.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Opinion on other matters Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality In our opinion: control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited review team and independent partner reviews.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Matters on which we are required to report extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility byexception to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Adequacy of explanations received and have formed.
accountingrecords Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements in our opinion: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable we have not received all the information and explanations we assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material require for our audit: or misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been received from branches not visited by us: or consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the with the accounting records and returns.
overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Directors remuneration Statements and to identify any information that is apparently Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
been made or the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to Ifwe become aware of any apparent material misstatements or be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We have nothing to report arisingfrom these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Robert Topley FCA.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Senior Statutory Auditor Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
London Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report United Kingdom 1 March 2016 Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 57
