Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 211 I Independent Auditors Report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc only We also considered the Groups control environment, Opinions and conclusions arising from including appropriate controls designed to prevent fraud.
ouraudit The risk assessment highlighted the areas where significant 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements judgement was required.
As described on pages 103 to 104 isunmodified these are also areas that have been focused on by the Groups We have audited the financial statements of Virgin Money Audit Committee.
In forming our unmodified opinion on the Holdings UK plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set financial statements, we undertook the following principal out on pages 214 to 282.
In our opinion: procedures on each of the areas as follows.
the financial statements give atrue and fair view of the Allowance for impairment losses on loans and state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs receivables 39.9m as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the Refer to page 103 Audit Committee Report, pages 224, 231 year then ended: and 232 accounting policy and note 8 financial disclosures.
the Group financial statements have been properly The risk: The impairment provision relating to secured and prepared in accordance with International Financial unsecured loans is one of the key judgemental areas for our Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union audit due to the level of subjectivity inherent in estimating IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the impact of certain key assumptions on the recoverability of the parent company financial statements have been loan balances.
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by The Group performs an assessment of its loans for the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of impairment, with the key assumptions being the probability of the Companies Act 2006: and an account falling into arrears and subsequently defaulting, the financial statements have been prepared in the emergence period, and the valuation of any recoveries accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act expected to be made.
For secured lending, the recoveries 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, assessment includes the market valuations of collateral Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
provided and the estimated time and cost to sell any property repossessed by the Group.
Our assessment of risks of material likelihood and amount of recoveries through sales to third misstatement parties is assessed.
Due to the limited historical information In arriving at our audit opinion above, we designed our audit available on actual default patterns and loss emergence procedures to reflect the risks we identified in the Group periods and the fact that past performance is not necessarily by performing increased procedures in the areas with most an indication of future performance, there is arisk that the significant risk.
actual outcome is different from the probability assumed.
Our audit began with arisk assessment of the inherent risks Our response: Our audit procedures included: facing the Group and how these are managed.
This included understanding: the strength of the Groups capital and We assessed the accuracy of the secured and unsecured liquidity position: the impact of key strategic projects: the impairment models by re-performing asample of composition of its balance sheet: and the management of calculations performed by the impairment models and its cost base.
We assessed and challenged the inherent risks agreed asample of data inputs, including the loans split with reference to: by arrears status, to reports from the source systems.
We assessed whether these reports were complete and Our experience of the Group and the retail accurate by checking the system codes used to extract banking industry: the information.
The views of our specialists in a number of areas including We compared the assumptions used in the impairment regulation, IT and tax: models to those approved by the Group.
We critically The views of the Prudential Regulation Authority and assessed those assumptions against our understanding Financial Conduct Authority: and of the Group, the historical accuracy of its estimates, the current and past performance of the Groups loans The significant changes taking place in banking and our knowledge of the industry in respect of these regulation in the UK.
indd 211 01 03 2016 11:38 212 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Independent Auditors Report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc only We benchmarked the Groups assumptions, such as We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures arrears trends, and the ratio between provisions and over revenue.
total impaired loan balances against industry data, and We continue to perform audit procedures over share based compared macroeconomic variables such as house price payments and capitalisation of project costs.
However, due inflation to market information.
to the reduced complexity in the Groups share schemes We tested the controls designed and applied by the Group and internal projects, we have not assessed these as being to provide assurance that the assumptions explained included in the risks that had the greatest effect on our above are regularly updated, that changes are monitored, audit and, therefore, they are not separately identified in our scrutinised and approved by appropriate personnel and report this year.
that the final assumptions used in the impairment models 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of have been appropriately approved.
the scope of our audit We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures The materiality for the Group financial statements as awhole onimpairment losses and key assumptions.
was set at 6.0 million 2014: 6.0 million, determined with reference to abenchmark of profit before tax 2014: Recognition of revenue from secured and unsecured gross interest receivable plus non-funded income of which lending 824.8m it represents 4.3 per cent 2014: 0.7 per cent.
We have Refer to page 103 Audit Committee Report, pages 222 and considered profit before tax to be the most appropriate 231 accounting policy and note 3 financial disclosures.
benchmark in the current year as profitability now reflects the The risk: Interest earned on loans and receivables is recognised scale of the business.
using the effective interest rate method which spreads the We report to the Audit Committee any uncorrected identified directly attributable cash flows, including transaction costs misstatements exceeding 0.3 million 2014: 0.3 million, and discounts, over the expected lives of the instrument.
The in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted key assumptions in this calculation is the expected life of the reporting on qualitative grounds.
instrument and the profile of the cash flows.
The expected lives and usage patterns are informed by past customer behaviour, Our audits of the six components of the Group were which demonstrates how and when customers have historically performed by the audit team at the Groups central hubs paid off their loans as well as spending patterns for unsecured that perform or support the key financial processes primarily loans.
Judgement is used by the Group to convert this historical in Edinburgh and Gosforth.
The audit work undertaken at information into the assumptions of future behaviour included these two hubs was all performed by the Group auditor to in the models.
There is arisk that this judgement may not materiality levels set individually for each component, which appropriately reflect all the facts available, which would skew ranged from 0.1 million to 6.0 million.
These Group audit the recognition of interest income.
procedures covered 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax and total Group assets.
Our response: Our audit procedures included: 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by We agreed asample of inputs into the models to source theCompanies Act 2006 is unmodified information, including comparing total secured loan In our opinion: balances to the loan system output and total unsecured balances to system reports.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with We used data tools to identify changes to the calculations the Companies Act 2006: and used by the model and re-performed asample of calculations performed to check their accuracy.
We the information given in the Strategic Report and the compared the methodology used to our interpretation of Directors Report for the financial year for which the the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions, including the expected lives and usage patterns, by comparing these to historical expected life trends within the Group and to our own expectations based on our knowledge of the Group and experience of the industry inwhich it operates.
indd 212 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 213 I Independent Auditors Report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc only 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: ofprincipal risks the directors statements, set out on page 135, in relation Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, to going concern and longer-term viability: and we have nothing material to add or draw attention to the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page in relation to: 95 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven the viability statement on pages 52 to 53, concerning provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the principal risks, their management, and, based on specified for our review.
that, the directors assessment and expectations of We have nothing to report in respect of the above the groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to responsibilities.
31 December 2018: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements Scope and responsibilities concerning the use of the going concern basis As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors of accounting.
Responsibilities set out on pags 137 to 138, the directors are 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the responsible for the preparation of the financial statements matters on which we are required to report and for being satisfied that they give atrue and fair view.
byexception A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we www.
This report is made have identified other information in the annual report that solely to the companys members as abody and is subject contains amaterial inconsistency with either that knowledge to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our or the financial statements, amaterial misstatement of fact, responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com or that is otherwise misleading.
uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an In particular, we are required to report to you if: understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have we have identified material inconsistencies between the undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as awhole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or John Ellacott Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately Chartered Accountants address matters communicated by us to the 15 Canada Square audit committee.
London Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to E14 5GL you if, in our opinion: 1 March 2016 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
