Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: The Weir Group PLCs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 1 January 2016 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED The Weir Group PLCs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 1 January 2016 Balance sheet as at 1 January 2016 Consolidated income statement for the 52 week period then ended Statement of changes in equity for the 52 week period then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the Related notes 1 to 18 to the financial statements 52 week period then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the 52 week period then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the 52 week period then ended Related notes 1 to 32 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material misstatement Exceptional Items: Group-wide efficiency review and Oil & Gas downturn actions.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets.
Adequacy of the Groups liability provisioning.
Exposure to significant tax risks.
Risk of fraud and management override of internal controls, particularly in relation to sales cut-off around the period end.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the financial information of five components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further seventeen components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 91% of adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations, 76% of Revenue and 80% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality is 8.3m which represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations.
Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations excludes non-recurring exceptional items.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF THE RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
The Weir Group PLC 122 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II III: Financial Statements What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Exceptional Items: Group-wide efficiency We obtained and assessed managements summary We concluded that the review and Oil & Gas downturn actions of charges incurred under the Group-wide efficiency material charges made are 367.8m, 2014: 209.4m review and Oil & Gas down turn actions and other exceptional in nature and have Group restructuring, split by division and principal been presented appropriately.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 90 : business unit.
Financial review page 43, Accounting policies pages 135 to 136 : and Note 5 of the Group We obtained an understanding from management Financial Statements page 146. of the rationale behind each of the charges.
We obtained an analysis of the charges and supporting The recognition, consistency and presentation of source documentation, rationale behind key costs and income within exceptional items is a key assumptions and the estimation process undertaken determinant in the assessment of the quality of the to confirm the appropriateness of charges recognised.
We assessed whether the changes were in line Given the significance and judgemental nature of the with the Groups accounting policy for exceptional exceptional items, we have assessed this as a risk of items, and the Financial Reporting Councils reminder material misstatement.
on consistency and clarity of presentation.
The primary components of the exceptional items We read the disclosure in Note 5 and related narrative in the current year and therefore the focus of our reporting to assess whether these are consistent with audit were the Group-wide efficiency review 7.6m, the conclusions of our audit work and meet the disclosure Oil & Gas downturn actions 92.5m, other Group requirements of relevant accounting standards.
restructuring 16.3m, and the intangibles impairment of 251.4m.
An impairment charge of 225.5m was recognised in relation to the Pressure Control CGU and 25.9m in relation to two other CGUs at the year end.
We have considered the risk relating to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets immediately below.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets We obtained managements impairment assessment We concluded that the 2,102.1m, 2014: 2,016m and testing, examining the calculation methodology, charge recognised is sources for key assumptions and sensitivities applied.
within our overall range Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 90 : In addition to managements assessment, we performed of acceptable outcomes.
Financial Review page 43 : Accounting policies audit procedures to identify any additional indicators pages 137 to 138 : and Note 5 and Note 14 of the of impairment for each CGU with associated intangible Group Financial Statements pages 155 to 157. assets, focusing on those businesses experiencing particularly challenging market conditions and subject The key assumptions used in the assessment of the to restructuring.
carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets are discount rate, long term growth rate, revenue growth Where there was no impairment charge, we obtained and EBIT margins, and these involve significant managements sensitivity analysis showing the impact of judgement.
Therefore, this gives rise to inherent a reasonably possible change in impairment assumptions subjectivity in the carrying value of these assets as disclosed in Note 14.
With the assistance of our recorded in the financial statements.
specialists we evaluated these to determine whether an impairment charge was required.
In particular, the Pressure Control and Pressure Pumping CGUs are noted as requiring specific focus We corroborated the key assumptions behind the as a direct result of the prolonged downturn facing impairment model, being discount rate, long term oil and gas markets those CGUs operate in.
growth rate, revenue growth and EBIT margins: utilising our valuations specialists to assist.
The significant An impairment charge of 193.4m was recognised assumptions and their rationale are disclosed in Note 14 against Goodwill in the Pressure Control CGU with to the financial statements.
the remainder of 32.1m allocated against other intangible assets.
A further 26.2m impairment For the Pressure Control and Pressure Pumping CGUs, charge was recognised in relation to the Goodwill given the prolonged downturn, we focused on the in American Hydro and YESS at the year end.
projected cash flows for these businesses under a range of oil price assumptions in the short and long terms and resultant impact on rig count, including scenarios generated from external analyst reports and internal EY economic projections.
We have read the impairment and sensitivity analysis disclosures to confirm these are in line with the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets.
The Weir Group PLC 123 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC continued What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Valuation of inventory 478.7m, 2014: 550.0m For those components that have an in-scope inventory We concluded that balance and take a controls based approach, we managements judgements Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 91 : tested controls.
Where a controls based approach in relation to the valuation Accounting policies page 138 : and Note 16 of was not possible, we performed additional detailed and level of provisioning of the Group Financial Statements page 158. substantive testing.
inventory appropriately reflects the reductions in demand The continued challenges facing oil and gas We obtained an aged analysis of the inventory from currently being experienced markets has lead to reduced customer activity management.
We compared specific inventory lines and forecast in the near future.
against utilisation rates and expected market activity based on rig count, as well as current and forecast This reduction in activity has increased the risk sales, to identify excess or obsolete inventory associated with the valuation of inventory, exposures.
We made further inquiries of management particularly within the Oil & Gas division.
to challenge and verify the assumptions made and determine their appropriateness.
For full and specific scope business units within the Oil & Gas division, we made inquiries of management in relation to valuation judgements made as part of the Oil & Gas downturn restructuring noted above.
We also performed audit procedures on the application of the inventory provisioning accounting policy.
We verified the rationale applied to supporting documentation.
The Weir Group PLC 124 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II III: Financial Statements What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Adequacy of the Groups liability provisioning We evaluated and challenged the assumptions and We concluded that methodologies applied behind specific employee managements estimates Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 91 : related provision calculations, and compared against in relation to the adequacy Financial Review page 49 : Accounting policies our expectations.
Where applicable, we have agreed of the Groups liability page 139 : and Note 22 of the Group Financial projected costs against historical cost experience or provisioning are reasonable, Statements pages 162 to 163. supporting external evidence.
The recognition and valuation of the expected We have discussed the status of current litigation outcome of employee related or other legal claims and regulatory issues with Group Legal Counsel.
and exposures across the Group requires the We have written to external lawyers throughout our exercise of management judgement in assessing audit process and considered their responses.
We the amounts recorded and the disclosures made have reviewed correspondence with third parties and in the financial statements.
For those exposures where provision is made, the We examined the judgements in relation to the use of estimates within those provisions gives rise Philippines Gold case, as disclosed in Note 27. to inherent subjectivity in the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
For US asbestos-related claims, a provision of 28m with an equivalent receivable for insurance proceeds For those exposures where no provision has has been recorded.
Significant inputs into the liability been made, the obligation to disclose the nature estimate include number of open claims, estimated and estimate of its financial impact gives rise to cost per claim and projected claims.
In addition, there further judgement in the disclosure within the are assumptions including the discount rate within the financial statements.
analysis to determine the fair value of the estimated liability.
We engaged EY actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness of the methodology followed and to evaluate the significant assumptions utilised in the valuation of the estimated liability.
We also considered alternative assumptions to challenge the sensitivities and uncertainties relating to the liabilities.
We have also obtained managements assessment of the adequacy of the Groups related insurance policies to corroborate their assessment of insurance cover over these US estimated asbestos liabilities.
For UK asbestos-related claims there are outstanding asbestos related claims which are not the subject of insurance cover.
We obtained managements assessment of the likely costs given past experience of the volume and cost of similar claims brought against the Group.
With the assistance of EY specialists we examined the calculation behind managements best estimate of the future liability and considered alternative assumptions to challenge the sensitivities and uncertainties relating to the liability.
We read the disclosure in Note 22 to confirm these are in line with the requirements of IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Exposure to significant tax risks We have utilised internal national and appropriate We concluded that the amount international taxation specialists to assist the provided by management Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 91 : Group team in the evaluation and challenge of the is appropriate and within an Financial Review page 46 : Accounting policies assumptions and estimates in relation to the level acceptable range.
page 141 : and Note 7 of the Group Financial of provisions recognised for significant tax risks.
We have corroborated the movements in these The value of the tax provisions recorded in respect provisions during the period, and the closing balances of a number of uncertain tax positions which require against our expectations.
We also considered any judgements in respect of the likely outcome of penalty regimes that could apply should any of the tax negotiations with and enquiries from various positions be successfully challenged.
The Weir Group PLC 125 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC continued What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Risk of fraud and management override In relation to sales cut-off, for those components that We concluded that revenue of internal controls, particularly in relation have an in scope revenue balance and take a controls recognised in the year is to sales cut-off around the period end based approach, we tested controls with a focus on materially correct on the basis those related to sales cut-off.
Where a controls based of our procedures performed Refer to the Accounting policies page 137 : approach was not possible, we performed additional and our audit procedures and Note 3 of the Group Financial Statements detailed substantive testing.
did not identify any evidence pages 142 to 144. of management override We performed cut-off testing on third party shipping of internal controls.
Auditing standards require that we consider the risk documentation and customer acceptance around of fraud or management override of internal controls the period end to ensure the risks and rewards have in revenue recognition.
been transferred to the customer, and performed analytical review procedures to compare revenue with Given the continued decline in key markets, managements forecast and past experience.
we have evaluated that the key risk of misstatement due to management override, fraud and error We tested reconciliation and manual journal entry specifically relates to sales cut-off around the authorisation controls at those full scope and specific period end.
The downturn in activity has increased scope components where we deemed there to be the risk of a material cut-off error through incorrect a higher country, control or management risk.
testing of revenue recognition at those components, we tested the validity of manual journal entries posted around the period end.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of fraud and management override in relation to revenue and profit recognition on construction contracts and manual journal adjustments to revenues made as a result of overriding existing processes or controls.
In the current year, given the continued decline in key markets, we have increased our focus on the assessment of the risk of fraud and management override to cover all material revenue streams, with a focus on sales cut-off around the period end.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the Group financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected twenty two components covering entities within Australia, United States of America, Canada, the Netherlands, Italy, South Africa, Dubai, Brazil, Chile, Peru, France, South Korea and the United Kingdom, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the twenty two components selected, we performed an audit of the financial information of five components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining seventeen components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 91% 2014: 78% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax from continuing operations, 76% 2014: 74% of the Groups Revenue and 80% 2014: 78% of the Groups Total assets.
The full scope components contributed 44% 2014: 43% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax from continuing operations, 33% 2014: 30% of the Groups Revenue and 39% 2014: 35% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 47% 2014: 35% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax from continuing operations, 43% 2014: 44% of the Groups Revenue and 41% 2014: 43% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of the specific scope components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
We also instructed all locations to perform specified procedures over the risks of misstatement, as described in the Risk section above.
Of the remaining components that together represent 9% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax from continuing operations, none are individually greater than 4% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax from continuing operations.
Certain central reporting entities and Group functions including those covering treasury, taxation, pensions and the Parent Company were subject to a full scope audit.
For those remaining components not subject to a full or specific scope audit, we performed other procedures, including analytical procedures, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations, testing of balances greater than performance materiality and review of internal audit reports to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The Weir Group PLC 126 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II III: Financial Statements We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group and the internal audit programme to assist us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
We reviewed the results of procedures performed by Internal Audit and tested a number of the Groups entity-level controls.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Revenue Adjusted profit before tax Full scope components Full scope components Specific scope components Specific scope components 9% Other procedures Other procedures 24% 33% 44% 47% 43% Total assets Full scope components Specific scope components Other procedures 20% 39% 41% Changes from the prior year Two components were raised from specific to full scope and one component was raised from residual to specific scope.
One component was reduced from specific to other scope.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of audit procedures that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the five full scope components, audit procedures were performed on all of these by the component audit teams.
For the seventeen specific scope components, the work was performed by component auditors.
We determined the involvement that we as the primary team needed to have with each component auditor to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The primary team continued to follow a programme of planned visits, video conferencing and teleconferencing that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits those components with the greatest exposure to the risks of material misstatements noted above.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to the component teams in the United Kingdom, Chile, the Netherlands and certain component teams in America.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management, and reviewing key audit working papers on significant risk areas.
The primary team interacted regularly with all component teams through video conferencing and teleconferencing where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
The Weir Group PLC 127 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC continued OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 8.3m 2014: 18.0m, which is 5% 2014: 5% of adjusted Profit before tax from continuing operations.
We believe that adjusted Profit before tax from continuing operations provides a consistent measure of underlying performance as it excludes non-recurring exceptional items.
This adjusted measure is used by the market and analysts as a key metric and therefore a focus for shareholders.
Starting basis: Loss profit before tax from continuing operations 199.8m 2014: 149.1m Adjustments: Exceptional items increase basis by 366.4m 2014: 209.4m Materiality: Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations 166.6m 2014: 358.5m Materiality 5% 8.3m 2014: 18.0m For 2015 these non-recurring exceptional items related to intangibles impairment 251.4m, Group-wide efficiency review 7.6m, Oil & Gas downturn actions 92.5m, other Group restructuring 16.3m, charging of fair value uplift 2.4m and release of expired indemnity provisions for LGE process disposal 3.8m.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and reduced it to reflect lower results of the Group as a result of the market challenges faced in 2015.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2014: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 6.2m 2014: 13.5m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to historical experience with the Group demonstrating an effective control environment and low history of misstatements.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.9m to 2.5m 2014: 1.4m to 5.1m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements is considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences which affect the Income Statement in excess of 0.4m 2014: 0.5m, or any Balance Sheet reclassification adjustments in excess of 2.0m 2014: 2.0m.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 121, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
The Weir Group PLC 128 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II III: Financial Statements OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no Ireland reporting in the annual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Act 2006 reporting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns exceptions to report.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 120, and exceptions to report.
longer-term viability, set out on page 29: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to We have nothing Ireland reporting draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to the Directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust draw attention to.
assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
James Nisbet Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Glasgow 24 February 2016 The Weir Group PLC 129 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
