Independent auditor's report Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified In our opinion the financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its loss for the period then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 102 'The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland': and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. Who we are reporting to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
What we have audited Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc's financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2015 comprise the Income statement, the Statement of financial position, the Statement of changes in equity, the Cash flow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 102 'The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland'.
Overview of our audit approach Overall materiality: 8,053,000, which represents 1% of the company's net assets: and Key audit risks were identified as the valuation and existence of investments.
64 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Audit risk How we responded to the risk Investments Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: The Company's business is to achieve long-term capital Obtaining an understanding of how the valuations were growth through investing in a portfolio consisting performed by the Companys investment manager: predominantly of UK companies, both quoted and Obtaining a confirmation of investments held at the unquoted.
As a consequence of this, the Company has year end directly from the independendent custodian: significant exposure to quoted and unquoted investments.
Inquiry and observation of the controls implemented We therefore identified the valuation and existence of by the investment manager in relation to unquoted investments as a risk that requires special audit attention.
investment pricing: Considering whether the valuations were made in accordance with the published guidance, in particular the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Guidelines: On a sample basis, reviewing and challenging the reasonableness of both the valuation techniques used and the assumptions made by management, including corroboration of financial inputs underlying those valuations and other supporting information: Consulting with our own internal valuations experts on the valuation methodologies applied by the client: Assessing the investment managers consideration of other factors that might require adjustment to the valuation: Agreeing the valuation of quoted investments to an independent source of market prices: and Testing a selection of investment additions and disposals shown in the Companys records against supporting documentation.
The Company's accounting policy on valuation of unquoted investments is shown in note 2 b and related disclosures are included in note 9.
The Audit Committee identified valuation of the investment portfolio, including the unquoted holdings, as an issue in its report on page 54, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 65 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality in determining the nature, timing and extent of our work and in evaluating the results of that work.
We determined materiality for the audit of the financial statements as a whole to be 8,053,000, which is 1% of net assets.
This benchmark is considered the most appropriate because net assets, which are primarily composed of the Company's investment portfolio, is considered to be the key driver of the Company's total return performance.
We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 75% of financial statement materiality.
We also determine a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as directors' remuneration and related party transactions.
We determined the threshold at which we will communicate misstatements to the Audit Committee to be 0.4m.
In addition we will communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Overview of the scope of our audit A description of the generic scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council's website at frc.
uk auditscopeukprivate We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the 'Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit' section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board's Ethical Standards for Auditors, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those Ethical Standards.
Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of the Company's business and is risk-based.
The day-to-day management of the Company's investment portfolio, the custody of its investments and the maintenance of the Company's accounting records are outsourced to third-party service providers.
Accordingly, our audit work included understanding and evaluating relevant obtaining an understanding of, and evaluating relevant internal controls at both the Company and third-party service providers.
This included obtaining and reading controls reports prepared by third-party auditors on the description, design and operating effectiveness of internal controls at the custodian and administrator.
We undertook substantive testing on significant transactions, balances and disclosures, the extent of which was based on various factors such as our overall assessment of the control environment, the design effectiveness of controls over individual systems and the management of specific risks.
Other reporting required by regulations Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: The part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the strategic report and directors' report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The financial statements and the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
66 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: The directors' statements in relation to going concern and longer-term viability, set out on page 41: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company's compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors' statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: or The Annual Report does not appropriately disclose those matters that were communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We have nothing to report in respect of any of the above matters.
We also confirm that we do not have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The directors' confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: The directors' statement in the financial statements about whether they have considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Company's ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and The directors' explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit What the directors are responsible for: As explained more fully in the statement of directors' responsibilities set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
What we are responsible for: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Julian Bartlett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 21 March 2016 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 67
