235876 Finsbury WWH pp38-pp47new 03 07 2015 12:37 Page 42 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC We conducted our audit of the financial statements at the Report on the financial statements offices of the AIFM and JPMorgan Corporate & Our opinion Investment Bank JPM CIB who the AIFM has engaged In our opinion, Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLCs financial to provide certain accounting, administrative and statements the financial statements : valuation functions.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of its net return and cash types of investments within the company, the involvement flows for the year then ended: of the third parties referred to above, the accounting have been properly prepared in accordance with United processes and controls, and the industry in which the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and company operates.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Areas of focus of the Companies Act 2006.
Income from investments Valuation and existence of investments What we have audited Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLCs financial statements Performance fees comprise: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2015: We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Income Statement for the year then ended: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: Ireland.
the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders' Funds We designed our audit by determining materiality and for the year then ended: and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial the notes to the financial statements, which include the statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors significant accounting policies and other explanatory made subjective judgments, for example in respect of information.
significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the addressed the risk of management override of internal financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of financial statements and are identified as audited.
bias by the directors that represented a risk of material The financial reporting framework that has been applied in misstatement due to fraud.
the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table Our audit approach below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion Overview on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments Materiality we make on the results of our procedures should be read in Overall materiality: 9,825,000 which represents 1% of this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified net assets.
Audit scope The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages Frostrow Capital LLP the AIFM to manage its assets.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 42 235876 Finsbury WWH pp38-pp47new 03 07 2015 12:37 Page 43 2 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Income from Investments We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for Refer to page 38 Audit Committee Report, page 53 compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and Accounting Policies and page 55 Notes to the Accounts.
performed testing to check that income had been accounted for in accordance with this stated accounting policy.
ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in income recognition because of the pressure management We found that the accounting policies implemented were in may feel to achieve capital growth in line with the objective accordance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP, of the company.
and that income has been accounted for in accordance with the stated accounting policy.
We focused on the accuracy and completeness of dividend income recognition and its presentation in the Income We understood and assessed the design and implementation Statement as set out in the requirements of The Association of key controls surrounding income recognition.
We then of Investment Companies Statement of Recommended tested those key controls using a combination of Practice the AIC SORP.
re-performance, inspection and observation, as appropriate, to obtain evidence that the controls had operated effectively This is because incomplete or inaccurate income could have throughout the year.
a material impact on the companys net asset value.
In addition, we tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates from a sample of investments to independent third party sources.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
To test for completeness, we tested that the appropriate dividends had been received in the year by reference to independent data of dividends declared for a sample of investment holdings in the portfolio.
Our testing did not identify any unrecorded dividends.
We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the revenue and capital return columns of the Income Statement in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
We then tested the validity of income and capital special dividends to independent third party sources.
We did not find any special dividends that were not treated in accordance with the AIC SORP.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 43 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp38-pp47new 03 07 2015 12:37 Page 44 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation and existence investments We tested the valuation of the listed investments by agreeing Refer to page 38 Audit Committee Report, page 52 the prices used in the valuation to independent third party Accounting Policies and pages 59 and 60 Notes to the sources.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which The investment portfolio at 31 March 2015 principally required reporting to those charged with governance.
comprised listed equity investments, OTC swaps and For OTC swaps and unquoted debt investments we unquoted debt investments and totalled 1,093,000,000. understood and evaluated the valuation methodology We focused on the valuation and existence of investments applied, by reference to industry practice, and tested the because investments represent the principal element of the techniques used by the AIFM in determining their fair value, net asset value as disclosed on the Balance Sheet in the and agreed to third party sources where applicable.
We also read the valuation reports and meeting minutes where the valuations were discussed and agreed.
We agreed the existence of investments to independent third party sources: We obtained an independent confirmation from the custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A, which confirmed all listed investments.
For derivatives not held by the custodian, we obtained an independent confirmation from the broker, Goldman Sachs International.
The unquoted debt investments were agreed to confirmations obtained directly from the relevant counterparties.
We independently recalculated the performance fee using Performance fees the methodology set out in the AIFM Agreement and Refer to page 38 Audit Committee Report, page 53 Portfolio Management Agreement and agreed the inputs to Accounting Policies and page 55 Notes to the Accounts.
the calculation, including the benchmark data, to A performance fee of 18,889,000 is accrued at 31 March independent third party sources, where applicable.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which We focused on this area because the performance fee is required reporting to those charged with governance.
calculated using a complex methodology as set out in the AIFM Agreement and Portfolio Management Agreement.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 44 235876 Finsbury WWH pp38-pp47new 03 07 2015 12:37 Page 45 2 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC continued Based on our professional judgement, we determined How we tailored the audit scope materiality for the financial statements as a whole as We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we follows: performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the Overall materiality 9,825,000. types of investments within the company, the involvement of How we determined it 1% of net assets.
the AIFM and JPM CIB, the accounting processes and Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this controls, and the industry in which the company operates.
benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for The AIFM outsources certain accounting, administrative and investment trust audits, in the absence of indicators that valuation functions to JPM CIB.
an alternative benchmark would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
environment in place at both the AIFM and JPM CIB to the extent relevant to our audit.
This assessment of the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to operating and accounting structure in place at both them misstatements identified during our audit above organisations involved obtaining and reading the relevant 491,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, control reports issued by the independent auditor of the in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
AIFM and JPM CIB in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work.
We then identified those Going concern key controls at JPM CIB on which we could place reliance to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the provide audit evidence.
We also assessed the gap period of Directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going 6 months between the period covered by the JPMorgan concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our controls report and the year-end of the Company.
this assessment, we applied professional judgment to As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have determine the extent of testing required over each balance concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Companys in the financial statements, including whether we needed to financial statements using the going concern basis of perform additional testing in respect of those key controls to accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the support our substantive work.
For the purposes of our audit, company has adequate resources to remain in operation, we determined that additional testing of controls in place at and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year JPM CIB was not required because additional substantive from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part testing was performed.
of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of However, because not all future events or conditions can be materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, companys ability to continue as a going concern.
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 45 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp38-pp47new 03 07 2015 12:37 Page 46 Other required reporting Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Consistency of other information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Companies Act 2006 opinion you if, in our opinion: In our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the adequate accounting records have not been kept, or financial statements are prepared is consistent with the returns adequate for our audit have not been received financial statements: and from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors the information given in the Corporate Governance Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Statement set out on pages 30 to 37 with respect to with the accounting records and returns.
internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial We have no exceptions to report arising from this statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Directors remuneration Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 in our opinion: opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration information in the Annual Report is: Report to be audited has been properly prepared in materially inconsistent with the information in the accordance with the Companies Act 2006. audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Other Companies Act 2006 reporting inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to acquired in the course of performing our audit: or you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no otherwise misleading.
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the statement given by the Directors on page 29, in the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and having performed our review.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Companys performance, Responsibilities for the financial statements and business model and strategy is materially inconsistent the audit with our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this Responsibilities set out on page 29, the Directors are responsibility.
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements the section of the Annual Report on pages 38 and 39, as and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address financial statements in accordance with applicable law and matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Those standards require us to comply We have no exceptions to report arising from this with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for responsibility.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 46 235876 Finsbury WWH pp38-pp47new 03 07 2015 12:37 Page 47 2 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC continued This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We and only for the companys members as a body in obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We do not, in giving these In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other information in the Annual Report to identify material purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to or into whose hands it may come save where expressly identify any information that is apparently materially agreed by our prior consent in writing.
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the What an audit of financial statements involves audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give implications for our report.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Sandra Dowling Senior Statutory Auditor companys circumstances and have been consistently for and on behalf of  LLP applied and adequately disclosed: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates London made by the Directors: and 24 June 2015 the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 47 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015
