Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Big Yellow Group PLC Opinion on financial In our opinion the financial statements: statements of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys Big Yellow Group PLC affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Strategic Report that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our of material misstatement audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Investment property valuation We assessed the design and implementation of controls around the property valuations by considering the level of management oversight and review of See also note 14 to the financial statements, and the Audit Committees the valuations prepared by the external valuation specialists engaged by Report on pages 84 to 86. management, who have been named in note 14: At 31 March 2015, the Group held wholly-owned investment properties We tested the integrity of the information provided by management to the and investment properties under construction valued at 1,022.8 million.
valuers by agreeing key inputs such as actual occupancy and net rent per In addition the Group acquired a 20% equity share in two associate square foot to underlying records and source evidence: entities, Armadillo Storage Holding Company Limited the Armadillo portfolio and Armadillo Storage Holding Company 2 Limited the Big We modelled eight years of valuations and key valuation inputs of the Store Portfolio together the Associates, for which equity accounting investment property portfolio, to understand the historical trends of key has been applied see note 13.
The Associates control investment inputs and compared these against the key forecast assumptions included properties with a combined value of 53.3 million.
in the property valuation: Investment properties are held at fair value on the balance sheet.
The net We met with the valuers covering both the Group and Associate portfolios.
valuation gain, relating to Group held properties was 64.5 million, which We assessed their independence, the scope of the work they were was recognised through the Consolidated Income Statement during the requested to perform by management, and the valuation methodology year.
The net valuation gain relating to the properties held by the Associates applied.
For each property we identified as having significant or unusual was 11.5 million on a gross basis 2.3 million Group share.
The fair valuation movements compared to market data or previous periods, we values at 31 March 2015 are calculated using actual and forecast inputs, challenged the valuers on the key assumptions applied.
Our challenge was such as occupancy, capitalisation rates, an assessment of cost to complete informed by input from our internal valuation specialists, utilising their for investment properties under construction and net rent per square foot knowledge and expertise in the market at a macro level and the relevant by property.
In addition, the valuers apply professional judgment geographies to challenge the key judgmental inputs noted adjacent.
We also concerning market conditions and factors impacting individual properties.
researched comparable transactions and understood trends in analogous industries.
We understood the rationale for outlying valuations or The valuation process is inherently judgemental, which is why we consider movements and obtained corroborative evidence.
We also assessed the this to be a risk of material misstatement.
In particular, changes in valuations for a sample of other properties: and assumptions such as the capitalisation rates, forecast rent per square foot, forecast occupancy levels and in the case of investment property under We visited a sample of properties to assess the condition of the buildings.
construction, cost to complete, can lead to significant movements in the value of the property, as can changes in the underlying market conditions.
88 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Fair value assessments in the acquisition of the Partnership We tested the design and implementation of controls associated with business combination accounting.
This centred around assessing whether See also note 13 to the financial statements and the Audit Committees the financial accounting was subject to sufficient management and Report on pages 84 to 86. technical review: On 1 December 2014 the Acquisition Date, the Group acquired the We reviewed in detail the acquisition agreement and related documents to residual 66.7% interest in the Big Yellow Partnership Limited the understand the commercial terms of the transaction: Partnership.
The Group had a pre-existing interest of 33.3%.
IFRS 3: Business Combinations require management to make the following We agreed the consideration to the cash paid: assessments as part of the step acquisition accounting: We considered managements assessment of the factors which impact the Determine the fair value of the consideration: fair value of the pre-existing interest and consulted with our valuation Determine the fair value of the pre-existing associate interest: specialists to challenge these assumptions: Determine the fair value of the net assets acquired: and We challenged the Directors valuation prepared by management and met Identify and recognise any intangible assets that are identifiable with the valuers of the investment properties, given the Directors valuation and separable.
was based on the September 2014 valuations, adjusted for two months The material asset was the investment property assets acquired.
The fair growth to the Acquisition Date.
We have challenged the valuers and valuation of the pre-existing associate interest and the fair value of the management on the assumptions incorporated in the investment property investment properties acquired are particularly subjective in that they valuation: rely on the application of managements judgment.
We tested the completeness of managements assessment of intangibles by considering the application guidance offered in IFRS 3 and, including a consultation with our valuation specialists, to challenge the conclusion that there were no identifiable and separable intangible assets: and We have tested the other material components of the acquisition balance sheet in detail.
Last year, our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: Valuation of VAT capital goods scheme CGS receivable the complexity arising from the VAT structure of the Group and in particular its impact on the recovery of the capital goods scheme receivable of 9.2m 2014: 9.0m, was simplified in the year ended 31 March 2015 due to the merging of VAT groups.
Furthermore, the successful claim by a competitor of Big Yellow has established a precedent for Big Yellows proposed basis of recovery.
The only fluctuation in this balance in the year ended 31 March 2015 relates to the unwinding of the discount applied on initial recognition and annual repayment of the receivable, neither of which are judgmental in nature.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 84 to 86.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that of materiality the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.9 million 2014: 4.2 million, based on professional judgment, the requirements of auditing standards and the financial measures most relevant to users of the financial statements.
We have used 1.0% of net assets 2014: 0.5% of non-current assets as the benchmark for determining materiality.
We concluded that determining materiality based on net assets was more consistent with industry peers, in particular real estate investment trusts, and because it reflects the measure of most interest to investors.
We note the change in base accounted for 1.7m of the 2.7m increase in materiality.
In addition to net assets, we consider adjusted profit before tax to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group on the basis that it is a key metric to analysts and investors and has substantial prominence in the Annual Report.
Adjusted profit before tax is 39.4m 2014: 29.2m, which is reconciled to IFRS profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent in Note 10 of the financial statements.
We applied a lower threshold of 1.9 million 2014: 1.4 million for testing all balances impacting adjusted profit before tax.
This lower threshold was based on 5% 2014: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 138,000 2014: 80,000, which in both years equates to 2% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
89 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Big Yellow Group PLC continued An overview of the Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide scope of our audit controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
As in the prior year the Group audit team performed the audits of all non-dormant entities within the Group given they are all located in the United Kingdom and operate from a single location with consistent financial systems.
As such, the scope of our audit covered 100% of both consolidated profit before tax and consolidated net assets.
During the year, the Group acquired 20% of the equity of the Associates.
The Group equity accounts for these interests and the equity interest in Armadillo Storage Holding Company Limited and Armadillo Storage Holding Company 2 Limited amounts to 3.6m and 1.9m respectively.
The Group also manages these portfolios.
We have performed audit procedures on the significant balances and transactions in these entities for the purposes of supporting the Group audit opinion.
In each case, we have attended a valuation meeting with the external valuer to challenge key assumptions and obtain comfort over the investment property values in these vehicles.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits.
At each site visited we undertook a stock count, tested the design and implementation of key controls around cash such as bank reconciliations and cash holding limits, agreed cash balances to bank reconciliations and held discussions with store staff.
We also verified a sample of fixed assets.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance Companies Act 2006 with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the information in the annual report is: Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
90 Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the of Directors and auditor preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient financial statements to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Darren Longley FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 18 May 2015 91
