Financial statements REPORT OF THE AUDITOR Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Materiality In our opinion: Overall Group materiality: 130 million which represents 1% The British Land Company PLCs group financial statements of Total assets.
and company financial statements the financial statements Specific Group materiality, applied to underlying pre-tax profit: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the 15 million which represents 5% of underlying pre-tax profit.
companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended Audit scope the group financial statements have been properly prepared First year audit procedures on opening balances.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards A full scope audit was performed by the Group audit team for IFRSs as adopted by the European Union all subsidiaries of the Group, and the following joint ventures: the company financial statements have been properly prepared Broadgate, Meadowhall, Leadenhall and BL Sainsburys Superstores.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Areas of focus the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Valuation of investment properties.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Revenue recognition, specifically non-standard transactions.
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Acquisitions and disposals, and review of accounting treatment on these transactions.
What we have audited Investments in joint ventures and funds, and assessment of impact The British Land Company PLCs financial statements comprise: of new accounting standards.
the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2015 Taxation REIT status and tax provisions.
the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2015 the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the that involved making assumptions and considering future events that Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating identified as audited.
whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are framework that has been applied in the preparation of the company identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any Accounting Practice.
comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
118 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment and development properties We read the valuation reports for all properties and confirmed that Refer to page 80 Audit Committee Report, page 129 Accounting the valuation approach for each was in accordance with RICS and Polices and pages 138 to 141 Notes suitable for use in determining the carrying value for the purpose of the financial statements.
The Groups investment property portfolio is split between office and residential properties in London, and retail and leisure properties We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read their across the UK.
The valuation in the Consolidated Balance Sheet terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there is 9,120m.
were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered The valuation of the Groups investment property portfolio is fee arrangements between the Valuers and other engagements inherently subjective due to, among other factors, the individual which might exist between the Group and the Valuers.
We found nature of each property, its location and the expected future rentals no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of the Valuers in their for that particular property.
For developments, factors include performance of the valuations was compromised.
projected costs to complete and timing until practical completion.
We performed testing on the standing data in the Groups The valuations were carried out by third party valuers, CB Richard information systems concerning the valuation process.
We carried Ellis and Knight Frank the Valuers.
The Valuers were engaged out procedures, on a sample basis, to satisfy ourselves of the by the Directors, and performed their work in accordance with accuracy of the property information supplied to the Valuers by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation management.
For developments, we confirmed that the supporting Professional Standards.
The Valuers used by the Group have information for construction contracts and budgets which was considerable experience of the markets in which the Group operates.
supplied to the Valuers was also consistent with the Groups records.
In determining a propertys valuation the Valuers take into We attended meetings with each of the Valuers at which the valuations account property-specific information such as the current tenancy and the key assumptions therein were discussed.
Our work focused on agreements and rental income.
They apply assumptions for yields the largest properties in the portfolio and those where the assumptions and estimated market rent, which are influenced by prevailing used and or year on year capital value movement suggested a possible market yields and comparable market transactions, to arrive at the outlier versus market data for the relevant sector.
We also focused on final valuation.
For developments, the residual appraisal method superstores, for the reasons referred to opposite.
We compared the is used, by estimating the fair value of the completed project using investment yields used by the Valuers to an estimated range of expected a capitalisation method less estimated costs to completion and yields, determined via reference to published benchmarks.
considered the reasonableness of other assumptions that are not so readily comparable with published benchmarks, such as Estimated The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled Rental Value, void rates and rent free periods.
Finally, we evaluated with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual year on year movements in capital value with reference to published property valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material benchmarks.
Where assumptions were outside the expected range or misstatement, warrants specific audit focus in this area.
otherwise unusual, and or valuations showed unexpected movements, we undertook further investigations and, when necessary, held further There were also a number of specific factors affecting the discussions with the Valuers.
In this way professional scepticism was valuations in the year which we considered when making exercised in our evaluation of whether assumptions were appropriate our judgements: in light of the evidence provided by significant transactions which had Significant transactions took place in the market involving shopping taken place in the market during the year.
centres, which had the effect of increasing the value of shopping centres, specifically Meadowhall.
It was evident from our interaction with management and the Valuers, In the UK supermarket sector, the performance of superstores in and from our review of the valuation reports, that close attention had particular Tesco and Sainsburys has had an impact on the valuation been paid to each propertys individual characteristics at a granular, of the superstore portfolio held by the Group.
tenant by tenant level, as well as considering the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole.
The Additionally, elements of Broadgate, the Groups largest asset, are revaluation of what were the appropriate assumptions to apply to any currently under development.
Particular focus was therefore placed given property included determining the level of impact that recent on this project due to the size of the asset and the inherently and significant market transactions should have on each individual subjective nature of developments valuations.
propertys valuation, given its unique characteristics.
We saw evidence that alternative assumptions had been considered and evaluated by management and the Valuers, before determining the final valuation.
We concluded that the assumptions used in the valuations were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119 Financial statements REPORT OF THE AUDITOR CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition We carried out tests of the controls over the cash and accounts Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, page 130 Accounting receivable processes and the related IT systems to obtain evidence Polices and page 133 Notes that postings to these accounts were reliable.
For rental income balances, we then used data-enabled audit techniques to identify Revenue for the Group consists primarily of rental income.
Rental all standard revenue journals posted using these systems and income is based on tenancy agreements where there is a standard processes.
The remaining journals related to non-standard process in place for recording revenue, which is system generated.
These were individually tested through obtaining There are however certain transactions within revenue which supporting information for all items and no issues were noted.
warrant additional audit focus and have an increased inherent risk of error due to the non-standard nature of these transactions.
For balances not included within rental income, we performed These include: substantive testing on a sample basis.
spreading of tenant incentives and guaranteed rent increases: surrender premia.
Accounting for transactions For each transaction, we understood the nature of the transaction Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, page 131 Accounting and assessed the proposed accounting treatment in relation to the Polices and pages 158 to 159 Notes Groups accounting policies and relevant IFRSs.
There have been a number of property transactions during the year.
For the Tesco and Speke acquisitions that were treated as business These warranted additional audit focus due to the magnitude of combinations, we assessed these in relation to IFRS 3 Business transactions, and the potential for complex contractual terms Combinations.
We agreed that these acquisitions should be that introduce judgement into how they are accounted for.
Key accounted for under IFRS3 because these entities meet the transactions subject to additional audit focus were as follows.
definition of a business under the accounting standard.
Purchase of 50% stake in Tesco BL Holdings Limited and the Tesco British Land Property Partnership and sale of the Groups For the Speke acquisition which resulted in the Unit Trust being 50% holding in the Tesco Aqua Limited Partnership for a net consolidated in line with IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements, payment of 102m: This was accounted for as a business we assessed managements treatment in line with the accounting combination of the subsidiaries acquired and a disposal standard and agreed that the Unit Trust had been properly accounted of Tesco Aqua Limited Partnership.
for because control had been gained of the business.
Purchase of additional units in the Hercules Unit Trust HUT for 93m: The purchase price of the units was based on the net For the purchase of units in HUT and Speke, we agreed the net asset value per unit at the date of purchase.
asset value used in the unit share price calculation to supporting Acquisition of Surrey Quays Leisure Park for 135m.
information including external property valuations.
Acquisition of additional units in the Speke Unit Trust for 93m: HUT increased its investment in this unit trust which has For all acquisitions and disposals, we obtained and reviewed the key subsequently been consolidated into the results of HUT.
supporting documentation such as Sales and Purchase Agreements This acquisition has been treated as a business combination.
Consideration received or paid was Various disposals with a net result of 26m.
These included the agreed to bank statements and deferred consideration postings.
disposal of a portfolio of retail assets for proceeds of 218.6m, No material issues were noted as a result of these procedures.
Green Lanes Barnstaple for proceeds of 32.1m and Cwmbran Retail Park for proceeds of 31.2m.
120 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Investments in joint ventures and funds and impact We performed an assessment as to whether the requirements of new accounting standards of IFRS10, 11, and 12 had been appropriately reflected in the Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, page 129 Accounting consolidated financial statements.
This included evaluating Polices and pages 141 to 146 Notes managements technical papers on the treatment of HUT and PREF under IFRS10 and the Groups joint ventures under IFRS11, The Group is party to a number of joint ventures, including Broadgate, and assessing each arrangement against the relevant accounting Meadowhall, certain Tesco and Sainsburys joint ventures, and the standards.
For significant arrangements, we agreed the key Leadenhall Building.
The Group also has investments in the Hercules contractual elements to the legal agreements in place.
Based Unit Trust and the Pillar Retail Europark Fund PREF.
on our audit work we concurred with the Groups treatment of its investments in joint ventures and funds.
The nature and complexity of the agreements relating to the Groups investments in joint ventures and funds required specific audit focus.
In addition, IFRSs 10, 11 and 12 came into effect in the year refer to Note 1 to the financial statements, requiring all such agreements to be reassessed to ascertain treatment under the new standards.
IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements provides more clear guidance on determining control.
HUT continues to be treated as a subsidiary of the Group, and PREF continues to be equity accounted for on introduction of the new standard.
IFRS11 Joint Arrangements focuses on the rights and obligations of specific arrangements.
Proportional consolidation for joint ventures is no longer allowed.
This has not had an impact on the treatment of the Groups joint ventures.
IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities includes the disclosure arrangements for all interests in other entities, of which joint arrangements and associates are of relevance to the Group.
Refer to note 28 of the financial statements.
Taxation We re-performed the Groups annual REIT compliance tests, Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, page 130 Accounting and we also evaluated how the Broadgate REIT conversion had Polices and page 135 Notes been implemented.
Based on our work performed, we agreed with managements assessment that all REIT compliance tests The Groups status as a REIT underpins its business model and had been met to ensure that the Group maintains its REIT status.
For this reason, it warrants specific audit focus.
The obligations of the REIT regime include requirements We used our tax expertise to evaluate tax provisions and potential to comply with balance of business, dividend and income cover tests.
exposures as at 31 March 2015, challenging the Groups assumptions During the year, the Broadgate joint venture converted to a REIT and judgements through our knowledge of the tax circumstances and as a result REIT compliance is also of relevance for this joint and by reading relevant correspondence between the Group and Her venture in addition to the overall Group.
Majestys Revenue & Customs and the Groups external tax advisors.
Based on our work, we concluded that the tax provisions were within Tax provisions are in place to account for the risk of challenge of an appropriate range based on the supporting information provided certain of the Groups tax positions.
Given the subjective nature of by the Groups tax department.
these provisions, additional audit focus was placed on tax provisions.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121 Financial statements REPORT OF THE AUDITOR CONTINUED How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a statement, set out on page 76, in relation to going concern.
We have whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting nothing to report having performed our review.
processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded As part of our first year audit procedures, we performed work that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the over opening balances.
This involved a review of the predecessor going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis auditors working papers, performing an assessment of the Group presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources and Company accounting policies and prior year financial statements to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, and discussion with management.
The Group and Company financial for at least one year from the date the financial statements were statements are produced using a single consolidation system that signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors has a direct interface with the general ledger.
We performed our use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
audit procedures over the general ledger system and tested the interface with the consolidation system.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups A full scope audit was performed by the Group audit team for and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
all subsidiaries of the Group, and the following joint ventures: Broadgate, Meadowhall, Leadenhall and BL Sainsburys Superstores.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we assessed the risk of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, likelihood and Companies Act 2006 opinion potential magnitude of any misstatement.
Following this assessment, In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial required over each balance in the financial statements.
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Materiality ISAs UK & Ireland reporting The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together in our opinion: with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures materially inconsistent with the to report arising from and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and information in the audited financial this responsibility.
on the financial statements as a whole.
statements: or apparently materially incorrect based Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality on, or materially inconsistent with, our for the financial statements as a whole as follows: knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing Overall group materiality 130 million our audit: or How we determined it 1% of Total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied The key driver of the business and The statement given by the Directors We have no exceptions determinant of the Groups value is on page 75, in accordance with provision to report arising from direct property investments.
Due C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance this responsibility.
to this, the key area of focus in the Code the Code, that they consider the audit is the valuation of investment Annual Report taken as a whole to be properties.
On this basis, we set an fair, balanced and understandable and overall Group materiality level provides the information necessary for based on total assets.
members to assess the Groups and companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent In addition, we set a specific materiality level of 15 million for items with our knowledge of the Group and within underlying pre-tax profit.
This equates to 5% of this measure company acquired in the course of which represents profit before tax adjusted for capital and other items.
In arriving at this judgement we had regard to the fact that underlying pre-tax profit is a secondary financial indicator of the Group.
Refer to The section of the Annual Report on page We have no exceptions page 124 Consolidated Income Statement.
We agreed with the Audit 79, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the to report arising from Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified Code, describing the work of the Audit this responsibility.
during our audit above 1 million as well as misstatements below that Committee does not appropriately address amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
122 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Adequacy of accounting records and information We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the and explanations received Directors judgements against available evidence, forming Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the in our opinion: financial statements.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence branches not visited by us: or through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors or a combination of both.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Directors remuneration knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor this responsibility.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Corporate governance statement London Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys 13 May 2015 compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 115, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123
