Independent Auditors Report to the Members of N Brown Group Plc Opinion on financial statements of the Consolidated Statement of Going concern N Brown Group plc Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated As required by the Listing Rules we have and Parent Company Balance Sheets, In our opinion: reviewed the directors statement on page the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, 14 that the group is a going concern.
We the Consolidated Statement of Changes the financial statements give a true and confirm that: in Equity, and the related notes 1 to 40. fair view of the state of the groups and The financial reporting framework that of the parent companys affairs as at 28 we have concluded that the directors has been applied in the preparation February 2015 and of the groups profit use of the going concern basis of of the group financial statements is for the year then ended: accounting in the preparation of the applicable law and IFRSs as adopted financial statements is appropriate: and the group financial statements have by the European Union.
The financial been properly prepared in accordance we have not identified any material reporting framework that has been applied with International Financial Reporting uncertainties that may cast significant in the preparation of the parent company Standards IFRSs as adopted by the doubt on the groups ability to continue financial statements is applicable law and European Union: as a going concern.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted the parent company financial statements However, because not all future events Accounting Practice.
have been properly prepared in or conditions can be predicted, this accordance with United Kingdom statement is not a guarantee as to the Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as Generally Accepted Accounting groups ability to continue as a going issued by the IASB Practice: and concern.
As explained in note 1 to the group the financial statements have been Our assessment of risks of financial statements, in addition to prepared in accordance with the material misstatement complying with its legal obligation to requirements of the Companies Act apply IFRSs as adopted by the European The assessed risks of material 2006 and, as regards the group Union, the group has also applied IFRSs misstatement described below are financial statements, Article 4 of the as issued by the International Accounting those that had the greatest effect on IAS Regulation.
our audit strategy, the allocation of The financial statements comprise resources in the audit and directing the In our opinion the group financial statements the Consolidated Income Statement, comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of customer receivables The impairment provision is a critical judgement in preparing We have focussed our audit challenge in a number of areas, the accounts and is estimated using a model which contains including benchmarking the methodology and assumptions, a number of inputs and assumptions that includes the arrears comparing the assumptions to objective evidence, evaluating stage of a customer, previous payment history, the historical the design and implementation of the key controls, checking performance of other customers and the length of time that the the calculation methodology for compliance with accounting borrower has been a customer.
standards and industry practice and assessing the movement in the provision compared to trends in arrears, write-offs, recoveries and the size and mix of the customer receivables portfolio.
We consulted with our internal credit specialists to design the audit methodology and to enhance our challenge of assumptions and methodology through benchmarking.
We used our own data specialists and checked the integrity of the calculations by performing an independent recalculation of the provision and checked the completeness and accuracy of data inputs by testing the underlying transactions on a sample basis.
50 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of N Brown Group Plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Regulatory We involved our own regulatory specialists in our evaluation of The group operates in a regulated environment not only because it is a listed entity, but also because of the unsecured credit it the design and implementation of controls and practices in place in relation to the processes the group has put in place to manage provides to customers.
Specifically: regulatory compliance and governance and benchmarked these The Financial Conduct Authority FCA began to regulate the against sources of best practice.
consumer credit market on 1 April 2014.
The FCA has the power to suspend or withdraw a firms regulatory permissions, We reviewed correspondence with regulators and selected a so there is a risk that if a firm does not comply with regulations, sample of customer complaints for testing and used analytical then their permission to lend to customers may be suspended procedures to assess the completeness of provisions for such or terminated.
Regulated companies must ensure that their governance When assessing the complaints procedures that the Group has arrangements are appropriate, that only authorised implemented, we considered how many of those complaints that people within the group are approved to carry out work were rejected were then referred to the Financial Ombudsman in this regulated environment and that their boards and Service and the uphold rate of those referrals, to consider subcommittees are operating effectively.
whether the Group were right to reject those claims.
Payment Protection Insurance PPI remains an area of focus for the group given the media exposure this has received in recent years.
Taxation provisions The group has ongoing debates with HMRC in respect of open Our audit team included taxation specialists who have reviewed taxation positions and certain areas of expense.
The most correspondence with HMRC to date and considered whether significant matters which are most likely to have an impact this correspondence has been interpreted and applied correctly, upon the financial statements and require the greatest degree having also considered current industry practice.
We have of judgements relates to VAT, specifically Bad Debt Relief and reviewed and recalculated the amounts provided and agreed Partial Exemption.
In addition, there are a number of smaller these to supporting documentation to assess the integrity of Corporation Taxation debates that remain open at the balance the data provided.
We have considered the judgements taken sheet date.
The outcomes of these cases are uncertain and and considered whether these judgements made are within a therefore are subject to estimates by management.
reasonable range of possible outcomes.
Inventory provisioning The inventory provision is based on the amount of current and We recalculated the arithmetic accuracy of the provisioning non-current stock on hand at the year end and the forecast methodology used by management.
We utilised data analytics disposal plan, which estimates inventory items to be sold both to test the inventory provision by comparing the selling price above and below cost.
Therefore the provision is the subject of of inventory in the year to the cost of the inventory as well considerable management judgement.
as analysing the ageing of inventory items.
In addition, we considered the appropriateness of the provisioning methodology through analysing the inventory disposal channels utilised in the year and comparing these to the forecast disposal plan.
To confirm existence of the inventory and the inventory counting procedures, we test counted inventory independently twice in the year in both the Shaw warehouse and a sample of stores operated by the Group.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of N Brown Group Plc The description of risks above should be The group has a significant trading with ten provisions of the UK Corporate read in conjunction with the significant component, J. D. Williams & Company Governance Code.
We have nothing to issues considered by the Audit Committee Limited, which was focused on as part of report arising from our review.
discussed on page 23. the audit.
The audit of this company was Our duty to read other information in the completed to a lower materiality than for Annual Report Our audit procedures relating to these the consolidated accounts.
matters were designed in the context of Under International Standards on Auditing Opinion on other matters prescribed by our audit of the financial statements as a UK and Ireland, we are required to report the Companies Act 2006 whole, and not to express an opinion on to you if, in our opinion, information in the individual accounts or disclosures.
Our In our opinion: annual report is: opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks the part of the Directors Remuneration materially inconsistent with the described above, and we do not express Report to be audited has been properly information in the audited financial an opinion on these individual matters.
prepared in accordance with the statements: or Companies Act 2006: and Our application of materiality apparently materially incorrect based the information given in the Chief on, or materially inconsistent with, our We define materiality as the magnitude of Executive s Review and the Directors knowledge of the group acquired in the misstatement in the financial statements Report for the financial year for which course of performing our audit: or that makes it probable that the economic the financial statements are prepared is decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable otherwise misleading.
consistent with the financial statements.
person would be changed or influenced.
In particular, we are required to We use materiality both in planning the Matters on which we are required to consider whether we have identified any report by exception scope of our audit work and in evaluating inconsistencies between our knowledge the results of our work.
Adequacy of explanations received and acquired during the audit and the accounting records We determined materiality for the group directors statement that they consider to be 3.7 million 2014: 4.9 million, the annual report is fair, balanced and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are which is 5% 2014: 5% of pre-tax profit understandable and whether the annual required to report to you if, in our opinion: from continuing operations, and below report appropriately discloses those we have not received all the information 1% 2014: equated to 1% of equity.
In the matters that we communicated to the audit and explanations we require for our prior year, all operations were continuing committee which we consider should have audit: or operations.
Therefore the only change been disclosed.
We confirm that we have in the calculation of materiality from the not identified any such inconsistencies or adequate accounting records have not prior year is to exclude discontinuing misleading statements.
been kept by the parent company, or operations in the current year.
There were returns adequate for our audit have not Respective responsibilities of directors no discontinuing operations in 2014. been received from branches not visited and auditor by us: or We agreed with the Audit Committee that As explained more fully in the Directors we would report to the Committee all audit the parent company financial statements Responsibilities Statement, the directors differences in excess of 76,000 2014: are not in agreement with the accounting are responsible for the preparation of 97,000, as well as differences below records and returns.
the financial statements and for being that threshold that, in our view, warranted satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We We have nothing to report in respect of Our responsibility is to audit and express also report to the Audit Committee on these matters.
an opinion on the financial statements disclosure matters that we identified when Directors remuneration in accordance with applicable law and assessing the overall presentation of the International Standards on Auditing UK financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also and Ireland.
Those standards require required to report if in our opinion certain An overview of the scope of our audit us to comply with the Auditing Practices disclosures of directors remuneration have Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We not been made or the part of the Directors Given the nature of the groups corporate also comply with International Standard structure where all evidence relating to Remuneration Report to be audited is not on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
in agreement with the accounting records each trading component is compiled at Our audit methodology and tools aim to the groups head office, we performed an and returns.
We have nothing to report ensure that our quality control procedures audit covering 100% of the groups trading arising from these matters.
are effective, understood and applied.
Our components and accordingly our samples Corporate Governance Statement quality controls and systems include our were selected from 100% of the groups dedicated professional standards review total assets, revenue and profit.
All group Under the Listing Rules we are also team and independent partner reviews.
companies are subject to the same grouprequired to review the part of the wide controls and consolidation processes, Corporate Governance Statement This report is made solely to the which were audited as part of our work.
relating to the companys compliance companys members, as a body, in 52 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of N Brown Group Plc accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of give reasonable assurance that the inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work financial statements are free from material by us in the course of performing the has been undertaken so that we might misstatement, whether caused by fraud audit.
If we become aware of any apparent state to the companys members those material misstatements or inconsistencies or error.
This includes an assessment matters we are required to state to them of: whether the accounting policies we consider the implications for our report.
in an auditors report and for no other are appropriate to the groups and the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted parent companys circumstances and by law, we do not accept or assume have been consistently applied and responsibility to anyone other than the adequately disclosed: the reasonableness company and the companys members as of significant accounting estimates a body, for our audit work, for this report, made by the directors: and the overall Damian Sanders or for the opinions we have formed.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonSenior statutory auditor Scope of the audit of the financial financial information in the annual report for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory to identify material inconsistencies with An audit involves obtaining evidence the audited financial statements and to Auditor about the amounts and disclosures in Manchester, United Kingdom identify any information that is apparently the financial statements sufficient to materially incorrect based on, or materially 22 May 2015.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 53
