INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion: Materiality Overall Group materiality: 46.4 million Derwent London plcs Group financial statements and 2014: 42.0 million which represents Company financial statements the financial statements Materiality 1% of total assets.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of Specic materiality: 4.0 million 2014: the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the 4.0 million applied to property and Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash other income, administrative expenses, Audit scope ows for the year then ended: provisions and working capital the Group financial statements have been properly prepared balances.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Audit scope Areas of focus The Group audit team carries out the Company financial statements have been properly the statutory audits of all components prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the within the Group and the consolidation.
European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Areas of focus the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Valuation of investment properties due to signicance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, and subjectivity.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Compliance with the REIT guidelines on which the Groups IAS Regulation.
tax status is based due to the consequences of any breach.
What we have audited Accounting for borrowings and the associated interest rate The financial statements, included within the Report and swaps, including the conversion of the 2.75% 2016 Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: convertible bonds in January 2015. the balance sheets as at 31 December 2015: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Group income statement and Group statements of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
comprehensive income for the year then ended: the cash ow statements for the year then ended: We designed our audit by determining materiality and the statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial and statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of the notes to the financial statements, which include a significant accounting estimates that involved making summary of significant accounting policies and other assumptions and considering future events that are inherently explanatory information.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the management override of internal controls, including evaluating preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
in the Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the statements and are identied as audited.
financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
118 Governance Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment properties The valuers used by the Group are CBRE Limited for the central Refer to page 116 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 141 London portfolio and Savills for the remaining investment to 143 Notes to the financial statements Note 16 and page property portfolio in Scotland.
They are well-known rms, with 170 significant accounting policies.
considerable experience of the Groups market.
We assessed the competence and capabilities of the rms and veried their The Groups investment properties were carried at qualications.
We also assessed their independence by 4,832.3 million as at 31 December 2015 and a revaluation discussing the scope of their work and reviewing the terms of gain of 650.0 million was accounted for under revaluation their engagements for unusual terms or fee arrangements.
surplus in the Group income statement.
In excess of 99% Based on this work, we are satisfied that the rms remain of the value of the Groups investment property portfolio independent and competent and that the scope of their work comprises ofces and commercial space within central was appropriate.
The remainder of the portfolio represents a retail park, cottages and strategic land in Scotland.
We tested the data in the investment property valuation for a sample of properties, including rental income, acquisitions and Valuations are carried out by third party valuers in accordance capital expenditure, by agreeing them to the underlying property with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards and IAS 40. records held by the Group.
The underlying property records There are significant judgements and estimates to be made in were themselves tested back to signed and approved lease relation to the valuation of the Groups investment properties.
contracts or sale purchase contracts and approved third party Where available, the valuations take into account evidence of invoices as applicable.
For the properties currently under market transactions for properties and locations comparable development, we traced the costs to date included within to those of the Group.
development appraisals to quantity surveyor reports and confirmed that they were comparable to costs incurred on similar The Central London investment property portfolio mainly completed projects.
We also agreed a sample of costs included features ofce accommodation and includes: in the quantity surveyor reports to supporting documentation.
Standing investments: These are existing properties that are We met with the external valuers independently of management currently let.
They are valued using the income capitalisation and obtained the valuation reports for all properties.
valuation reports and confirmed that the valuation approach for Development projects: These are properties currently under each was in accordance with RICS Valuation Professional development or identied for future development.
They have Standards and IAS 40 and suitable for use in determining the a different risk and investment prole to the standing carrying value for the purpose of the financial statements.
We investments because of the different assumptions applied.
involved our internal valuation specialists to compare the These are valued using the residual appraisal method i. e. by valuations of each property to our independently formed market estimating the fair value of the completed project using the expectations and to discuss and challenge the valuation income capitalisation method less estimated costs to methodology and assumptions.
In doing this we used evidence completion and a market based profit margin providing a of comparable market transactions and focused in particular on return on development risk.
properties where the growth in capital values was higher or lower than our expectations based on market indices.
The most significant judgments and estimates affecting the valuations using both the income capitalisation and residual Consistent with last year, we identied the following assets for value methods included yields and estimated rental value further testing: standing investments where the valuation fell ERV growth as described in note 16 of the financial outside the expected range: ongoing and planned development statements.
For development projects, other assumptions projects: high value assets over 100m: and acquisitions.
including costs to completion and risk premium assumptions In relation to these assets, we found that yield rates and ERVs are also factored into the valuation.
were predominantly consistent with comparable information for Consistent with last year, yields and ERVs have moved central London ofces and assumptions appropriately reected favourably reecting the buoyancy of the central London comparable market information.
Where assumptions fell outside property market which has driven the significant increase in of our expected range, we assessed whether additional valuation over the year.
The revaluation gain was also boosted evidence presented in arriving at the final valuations was by new lettings and significant progress on a number of appropriate, and, whether this was robustly challenged by the development projects where further costs have been incurred external independent valuers where appropriate.
Variances were and the risk weighting applied to the valuation has decreased predominantly due to property specic factors such as new hence increasing the capitalised value.
lettings at higher rents, movements in ERV or yield to reect market transactions in close proximity or the fide-risking of The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled development projects nearing completion.
We veried the with the fact that only a small percentage difference in movements to supporting documentation including evidence of individual property valuations when aggregated could result in comparable market transactions where appropriate.
material misstatement, is why we have given specic audit focus and attention to this area.
We challenged the Directors on the upward movements in the valuations and found that they were able to provide explanations and refer to appropriate supporting evidence.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 119 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Compliance with REIT guidelines We confirmed our understanding of managements approach to Refer to page 117 Report of the Audit Committee and ensuring compliance with the REIT regime rules.
page131 significant judgements, key assumptions We obtained managements calculations and supporting and estimates.
documentation, checking their accuracy by verifying the inputs, The UK REIT regime grants companies tax exempt status which included the underlying financial information, and provided they meet the rules within the regime.
We involved our internal specialists to verify the complex and the tax exempt status has a significant impact on accuracy of the application of the rules.
The complexity of the rules creates a We found that the assessment prepared was free from material risk of inadvertently breaching and the Groups profit becoming error and consistent with the UK REIT guidelines.
Accounting for borrowings and derivatives We read the loan contracts to understand the terms and Refer to page 117 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 148 conditions.
The carrying value of all debt was agreed to third to 155 Notes to the financial statements Note 23 and party conrmations.
In 2014, we obtained the convertible bond documentation The Group has secured and unsecured debt totalling and reviewed it to ensure we understood each of the clauses 895.0 million 2014: 1,019.8 million.
The debt includes and the accounting impact of conversion.
We obtained unsecured convertible debt of 140.2 million 2014: managements proposed accounting treatment for the Group 308.0 million with an option for the Group to convert the and Company and checked that it was consistent with the debt when certain criteria have been met.
On 17 December convertible bond documentation and accounting standards.
2014, the Group exercised its option to redeem its 175m In 2015, we confirmed the proposed accounting treatment 2.75% 2016 convertible bonds, and on 30 January 2015 had been correctly applied.
all bond holders elected to convert their debt to shares.
For derivatives, we agreed the carrying value to valuations The accounting for convertible debt can be complex and obtained directly from the third party valuers, JC Rathbone therefore is considered an area of audit focus.
We assessed the competence and capabilities The Group uses interest rate swaps on a portion of its debt.
of the external valuers by considering their qualications and The interest rate swaps were valued at 31 December 2015 by market experience.
We involved our internal specialists who external valuers and the fair value was 17.6 million 2014: performed independent valuations to recalculate the value 25.2 million.
The valuation of the swaps is based on market using independent market data.
movements which can uctuate signicantly in the year and No material issues were identied in our work on the debt could have a material impact on the Group financial arrangements in place as at 31 December 2015. statements.
The valuation also involves judgement and therefore is considered an area of audit focus.
120 Governance How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and and the industry in which the Group operates.
extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the The Groups properties are spread across 26 statutory entities effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial with the Group financial statements being a consolidation of statements as a whole.
these entities, the Company and the Groups joint ventures.
All parts of the Group, with the exception of one of the joint Based on our professional judgement, we determined ventures, were identied as requiring an audit of their complete materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics or statutory requirement.
This work, all of which was carried out by the Group audit team, together with additional procedures performed on the consolidation, gave us sufficient appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Overall Group materiality 46.4 million 2014: 42.0 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Specic materiality 4.0 million 2014: 4.0 million How we determined it Based on 5% of profit before tax excluding investment property valuation movements and profit on disposal of investment properties.
Rationale for benchmark applied The key driver of the business and determinant of the Groups value is direct property investments.
Due to this, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation of investment properties.
On this basis, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
In addition, a number of key performance indicators of the Group are driven by income statement items and we therefore also applied a lower specic materiality for testing property and other income, administrative expenses, provisions and working capital balances.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to cap specic materiality As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have at 4.0 million and that we would report to them misstatements concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial identied during our audit above 2.3 million 2014: 2.1 million statements using the going concern basis in preparing the for financial statement line items where overall materiality financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that applied and 0.2 million 2014: 0.2 million for line items where the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain specic materiality applied, as well as misstatements below in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for least one year from the date the financial statements were qualitative reasons.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors However, because not all future events or conditions can be statement, set out on page 92, in relation to going concern.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 121 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Other required reporting The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group Consistency of other information and of the principal risks that would threaten the Companies Act 2006 opinions solvency or liquidity of the Group In our opinion: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw the information given in the Strategic Report and the attention to in relation to: Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the the Directors conrmation on page 90 We have nothing financial statements.
of the Annual Report, in accordance material to add or to with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, draw attention to.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting that they have carried out a robust Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to assessment of the principal risks you if, in our opinion: facing the Group, including those that information in the Annual Report is: We have no would threaten its business model, exceptions to report.
future performance, solvency materially inconsistent with the or liquidity.
information in the audited financial statements: or the disclosures in the Annual Report We have nothing that describe those risks and material to add or to apparently materially incorrect based explain how they are being managed draw attention to.
on, or materially inconsistent with, or mitigated.
our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of the Directors explanation on page 77 We have nothing performing our audit: or of the Annual Report, in accordance material to add or with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, to draw attention to.
as to how they have assessed the the statement given by the Directors We have no prospects of the Group, over what on page 90, in accordance with exceptions to report.
period they have done so and why provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate they consider that period to be Governance Code the Code, that appropriate, and their statement as to they consider the Annual Report taken whether they have a reasonable as a whole to be fair, balanced and expectation that the Group will be able understandable and provides the to continue in operation and meet its information necessary for members to liabilities as they fall due over the assess the Groups and Companys period of their assessment, including position and performance, business any related disclosures drawing model and strategy is materially attention to any necessary inconsistent with our knowledge of the qualications or assumptions.
Group and Company acquired in the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors course of performing our audit.
statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the section of the Annual Report We have no the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors on page 116, as required by exceptions to report.
statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
provision C. 3.8 of the Code, Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and describing the work of the Audit only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Committee does not appropriately Directors process supporting their statements: checking that address matters communicated the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions by us to the Audit Committee.
of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
122 Governance Directors remuneration In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Directors remuneration report information in the Annual Report to identify material Companies Act 2006 opinion inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Companies Act 2006. acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Other Companies Act 2006 reporting inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no CRAIG HUGHES exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR Corporate governance statement for and on behalf of  LLP Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further London provisions of the Code.
25 FEBRUARY 2016 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements andfor being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 123 3 FINANCIAL S TATEMENTS GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 126 GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 126 BALANCE SHEETS 127 STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 128 CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 129 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 130 In 2015, Derwent London delivered recurring earnings and dividend growth while adding value to the business and reducing financial risk.
362% 17.8% Net interest Loan-to-value cover 124 Tottenham Court Walk W1
