Financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Great Portland Estates plc Opinion on financial statements of Great Portland Estates plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 25 and i to vii.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 118 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identied any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 151 Independent auditors report Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of property portfolio The Group owns a portfolio of property assets in central London.
We assessed and discussed managements process for reviewing The portfolio is valued at 3,068.8 million, including share of joint and challenging the work of the external valuer.
We also assessed venture properties, as at 31 March 2015. the competence, independence and integrity of the external valuer.
The valuation of the portfolio is a significant judgement area and We obtained the external valuation reports and met with the is underpinned by a number of judgements including i yields external valuer to discuss the results of their work on a sample of ii future lease income and iii with reference to development properties.
With the assistance of a specialist member of the audit properties costs to complete.
team, who is a chartered surveyor, we discussed and challenged the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and significant Please see accounting policy at page 129 and notes 10 and 12 to judgments and assumptions applied in their valuation model, the financial statements.
including yields, occupancy rates, lease incentives and break clauses.
We benchmarked and challenged the key assumptions to external industry data and comparable property transactions, in particular the yield.
We tested the integrity of a sample of the data provided to the external valuer.
This included verifying a sample of information provided to the external valuer to underlying lease agreements.
We assessed the Groups development appraisal process through meeting with project managers and assessing the forecast cost to complete and commitments of key developments.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group has undertaken a number of material acquisitions We confirmed key transaction terms to sale and purchase and disposals during the year including the sale of 12 14 New agreements for all significant acquisitions and disposals in the year, Fetter Lane for 96.3 million and exchanged contracts on 130 assessing whether they were appropriately recognised in the period apartments at Rathbone Square for 223.1 million.
These are based upon the risks and rewards of ownership and properly significant due to the individual nature, size, the signicance disclosed in the financial statements.
of the cash ows involved and the related specic disclosure We also assessed whether key terms and pricing were requirements.
appropriately reected in any calculation of costs of the acquisition Please see accounting policy at page 129 and notes 10, 11 and or profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition Accounting for surrender premia, rent-free periods and capital We have reviewed and understood the key terms and conditions incentives is complex due to it being impacted by the specic terms of a sample of leases identifying the quantum of surrender premia, and conditions of the relevant contracts.
rent-free periods and capital incentives.
We recalculated the required adjustment to the annual rent in relation to these items Please see accounting policy at page 129 and note 2 to the to determine whether the correct amount of revenue had been financial statements.
In the 2014 annual accounts our report disclosed a risk in relation to nancing and the accounting for the convertible bond issued during that financial year.
The accounting treatment for the convertible bond was concluded upon in the prior year and therefore no longer is considered a significant risk.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed onpages 86 and 87.
152 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modied with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 25 million 2014: 25 million, which is below 2% of equity 2014: below 2% of equity.
In addition to equity, we consider EPRA profit Before Tax to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 2.2 million 2014: 2.0 million based on 5% 2014: 5% of that measure for testing of all balances impacting this financial performance measure.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.5 million 2014: 0.5 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The audit is performed centrally, as the books and records for each entity within the Group are maintained at head ofce.
We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
We audit all of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures which are subject to audit at statutory materiality level, which in most cases is substantially lower than Group materiality.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 153 Independent auditors report Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Muschamp, FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 20 May 2015 154 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015
