Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Hansteen Holdings PLC Opinion on financial statements of Hansteen Holdings PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Company balance sheets, the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, the Consolidated and Company cash flow statements and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 3 to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Directors report on page 51.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 20 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 20 and 21 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 3 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 51 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Independent Auditors report continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Investment property valuation For all significant portfolios, we met and challenged the external See also note 17 to the financial statements, and the Audit valuers, and assessed whether they are acting independently, Committees Report on pages 29 to 32. including consideration of any other services provided to the Group and the basis upon which their fees are calculated.
This included At 31 December 2015, the Group held wholly-owned investment reviewing the terms of their engagement.
and trading properties valued at 1,072m, in addition to owning a share of two funds holding properties valued at a total of We tested the tenancy schedules for integrity by agreeing a sample 476 million.
of entries to lease agreements to gain assurance over accuracy, and agreeing a sample of lease agreements to the tenancy schedule Investment properties are held at fair value on the balance to gain assurance all leases were recorded.
In addition, we visited a sheet.
During the year, a net valuation gain of 110.8 million was sample of properties, with occupied and vacant units, in Germany and recorded.
The fair values are calculated by third-party valuation the Netherlands, to confirm the accuracy of tenancy data and assess experts using information, such as lease agreements and the condition of the properties.
tenancy data, in addition to professional judgement concerning marketing conditions and factors impacting individual properties.
Audit analytics were applied to compare the audited tenancy schedule with the data provided to the valuers thereby testing the The valuation process is inherently judgemental, which is why we integrity of the underlying data used by the valuers in their consider this to be a risk of material misstatement.
This was supported by review of the reconciliation that changes in assumptions such as the time a property will remain management had performed to determine whether the data used by vacant when a tenant leaves, the rent free period required to the valuers matched the tenancy schedules maintained by the Group.
attract a new tenant, and the level of expenditure required to maintain the property can lead to significant movements in the We employed analytics to identify properties which exhibited value of the property, as can changes in the underlying market valuation movements and yields outside of our predetermined conditions.
These were discussed in detail with the external valuers and copies of the valuation calculations were obtained and analysed in order to satisfy ourselves that the assumptions applied were appropriate.
In addition, we tested a sample of other properties to determine whether the valuations were appropriately performed, and considered the value realised on property disposals compared to previous valuations to assess historical valuation reliability.
We checked that the valuation reports have been recorded correctly in the financial statements and appropriate disclosures have been made.
Calculation and presentation of the Founder LTIP We reviewed minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and See also note 31 to the financial statements, the Audit the Remuneration Committee, in addition to evaluating the scheme Committees Report on pages 29 to 32, and the Remuneration agreements and other correspondence between the Group and the Committees Report on pages 35 to 49.
On 1 January 2013, the current three-year Founder Long Term We independently recalculated the closing position of the scheme Incentive Plan Founder LTIP performance period commenced in and the resulting charge for the year.
which the Joint Chief Executives participate.
We met with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Payment under the scheme is made if the EPRA Net Asset Value Chairman of the Audit Committee to discuss the key assumptions, NAV per share of the Group at 31 December 2015 exceeds 110.7 the outcome of our audit work, and the level of disclosure in the pence representing a compound annual growth of 10% over the Annual Report.
At 31 December 2015 the Groups EPRA NAV per share is 111 pence, as stated in Note 14.
We evaluated the level of disclosure in the Annual Report, in particular the presentation of the charge within diluted metrics and Since the performance period ended on 31 December 2015, non-statutory performance measures.
management has calculated the actual award as 22.9 million shares to each of the Founder Directors using the closing net We consulted with Deloitte Remuneration specialists on the asset position.
The charge recorded in the income statement for presentation and disclosure of the scheme, particularly with respect the year is 23.2m.
to the Director Remuneration Reporting requirements.
The risk of inappropriate valuation of the award has reduced compared with the previous year due to the performance period ending on 31 December 2015, removing the judgement associated with forecasting future performance.
However, we consider that the Founder LTIP continues to be a significant audit risk based on the size of the award.
There is a further risk that insufficient prominence and disclosure will result in the impact of the Founder LTIP scheme not being clear to users of the financial statements.
56 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Significant non-recurring transactions We evaluated the presentation of significant non-recurring transactions in See also notes 10, 17 and 19 to the financial statements, the annual report.
Throughout our audit work we were alert to significant and the Audit Committees Report on pages 29 to 32. non-recurring transactions, in addition to completing a review of legal correspondence and Board meeting minutes, to assess whether the list of The nature of the Groups operations gives rise to nonthese transactions we considered was complete.
recurring transactions which can result in significant gains and losses.
For all significant non-recurring transactions, we assessed whether: In the current year, the Group completed a number of each transaction was accounted for in compliance with IFRS: significant non-recurring transactions, including: each transaction was accurately recorded by agreeing the value to the conversion criteria for the convertible bond have underlying documentation, including assessing cut-off of such transactions: been met for the quarter ended 31 December 2015 as the parity value of the bond has exceeded 130,000 for the underlying assumptions and judgements in the measurement of each 20 consecutive days in the qualifying 30-day period.
transaction were appropriate: and No Bondholders exercised their conversion rights: each transaction was fairly presented and disclosed in the financial the purchase of additional units in Ashtenne Industrial statements.
Fund Unit Trust AIF, increasing Hansteens share in AIF to 82.8%: In respect of significant non-recurring transactions that occurred during the year, our procedures also included: the disposal of Hansteen UK Industrial Property Unit Trust HPUT II : a UK multi-let industrial property fund evaluating managements assessment of control over AIF and the impact of in which the Group had a stake of 33%: additional unit purchases on the current equity accounting treatment: the reversal of impairment of trading properties of obtaining the unit purchase documentation and bank statement to validate 2.3m: and the purchase of additional units in AIF: the sale of properties with a total book value of 46.1m examining the Unit Sale Agreement in relation to the HPUT II disposal and during the year ended 31 December 2015. assessed managements accounting treatment: These transactions are, by their nature, one-off and often assessing the reversal of trading property impairments, including evaluating complex.
There are management judgements inherent the third party valuations obtained by management: and in their measurement, such as in calculating the value of the transaction or its resulting gain or loss, and their checking the gains and losses recognised on a sample of property disposals presentation in the financial statements has a material to property valuation reports and sale and purchase agreements.
impact on the results for the year.
Last year our report included two other risks which are not included in our report this year: Going concern and covenant compliance whilst a covenant breach would have real commercial implications on the Group, given the headroom in the covenants in the current year, this was not determined to be a key risk.
Taxation whilst non-compliance with REIT requirements would have a significant impact on the Group, the level of judgement is low and this risk does not require significant audit effort for the current year audit.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 10.4 million 2014: 9.5 million, based on professional judgement, the requirements of auditing standards and the financial measures most relevant to users of the financial statements.
We have used 1.5% 2014: 1.5% of net assets as the benchmark for determining materiality.
We used net assets on the basis that the Group is an asset-intensive business, with shareholder value being driven by net asset value movements.
The most significant balances in the financial statements are investment property and associated borrowings.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA earnings per share to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group on the basis that it is a key metric to analysts and investors.
EPRA earnings per share is based on the groups EPRA earnings of 18.0 million, which is reconciled to IFRS profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent in Note 14 of the financial statements.
We applied a lower threshold of 0.7 million 2014: 1.9 million for testing all balances impacting EPRA earnings, which represents 5% 2014: 5% of EPRA earnings.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Independent Auditors report continued We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 200,000 2014: 190,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
As in the prior year, our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work in the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands, where full audits were carried out based on our assessment of the identified risks of material misstatement identified above.
The Group audit team performed the audits of the wholly-owned entities in the United Kingdom and Germany, and component auditors performed the audits, based on instructions from the Group audit team, of the wholly-owned entities in the Netherlands and in a change from the prior year following the Group increasing its stake, the UK-based Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust AIF.
In addition, the Group team also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The components subject to a full audit represent the principal business units of the Group and account for 97% 2014: 97% of the Groups revenue, 98% 2014: 99% of the Groups profit before tax and 97% 2014: 97% of the Groups net assets.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each component which were lower than group materiality, and ranged between 4.2 million and 7.8 million 2014: 5.2 million to 7.1 million.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the Groups principal business units at least once every three years, including the overseas components audited directly by the Group audit team.
In the year ended 31 December 2015, we visited operations in Germany and the Netherlands.
In years when we do not visit a significant component that is audited by a component auditor, we will include the component audit partner in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team participated in all of the close meetings of the Groups principal business units.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
58 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Darren Longley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 14 March 2016 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59
