96 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: intu properties plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included in the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2015: the Group consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the accounts, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the accounts.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Context During the year to 31 December 2015, there have been no significant changes to business operations, investment property market yields, or to accounting standards relevant to the Group.
The most significant transactional activity was in relation to the acquisition and subsequent part disposal of Puerto Venecia, Zaragoza, in Spain.
As a result our audit approach is largely consistent with the prior year, with the same recurring areas of focus.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 101 million 2014: 96 million which represents 1 per cent of total assets Materiality Specific materiality: 9 million 2014: 8 million which represents 5 per cent of underlying profit before tax and associates The Group and Company financial statements are produced by the Groups central finance department using a single, Audit scope consolidated general ledger, and the whole business was subject to the same audit scope Valuation of investment properties Areas of focus Acquisition of Puerto Venecia, Zaragoza, and subsequent part disposal, resulting in the Groups interest being accounted for as a joint venture The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
co. uk Accounts 97 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Given the inherent subjectivity involved in the valuation of investment Valuation of investment properties properties, the need for deep market knowledge when determining the The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with the most appropriate assumptions, and the technicalities of valuation fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property methodology, we engage our internal valuation specialists qualified valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material change, chartered surveyors to assist us in our audit of this significant risk area.
warrants specific audit focus in this area.
We read the valuation reports for all properties and attended meetings The Groups investment properties are all shopping centres and with each of the Valuers.
We confirmed that the valuation approach for comprise the majority of the assets in the Group balance sheet, their each was in accordance with RICS and suitable for use in determining carrying value amounting to 8.4 billion.
Additionally the carrying value in the Group balance sheet.
the carrying value of the Groups share of investment properties held We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read their within joint ventures is 1.1 billion.
Refer to note 22. terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there were The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently subjective any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each property, imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered other its location and the expected future rental revenues for that engagements which might exist between the Group and the Valuers.
We found no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of any Valuer in The valuations were carried out by third party valuers, CBRE, Knight their performance of the valuations was compromised.
Frank, Jones Lang LaSalle and Cushman & Wakefield the Valuers.
We carried out procedures, on a sample basis, to test whether propertyThe Valuers were engaged by the Directors, and performed their work in specific standing data supplied to the Valuers by management reflected accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS the underlying property records held by the Group and which had been Valuation Professional Standards.
The Valuers used by the Group are tested during our audit.
We found them to be consistent.
well-known firms, with considerable experience of the market in which Our work focused on the largest properties in the portfolio and those the Group operates.
properties where the assumptions used and or year-on-year capital In determining a propertys valuation the Valuers take into account value movement suggested a possible outlier versus market data for property specific information such as the current tenancy agreements the shopping centre sector.
We compared the investment yields used by and rental income attached to the asset.
They then apply assumptions the Valuers to an estimated range of expected yields, determined via as regards yield and Estimated Rental Value, which are influenced by reference to published benchmarks, and to recent transactions.
We also prevailing market yields and comparable market transactions, to arrive considered the reasonableness of other assumptions that are not so at the final valuation.
Due to the unique nature of each shopping centre, readily comparable to published benchmarks, such as Estimated Rental the assumptions to be applied are determined having regard to the Value, void rates and rent free periods.
Finally, we evaluated year-onindividual property characteristics at a granular, unit-by-unit level, as year movements in capital value with reference to published well as considering the qualities of the shopping centre as a whole.
Where assumptions were outside the expected range or otherwise deemed unusual, and or valuations appeared to experience unexpected movements, we undertook further investigations and, when necessary, held further discussions with the Valuers in order to challenge the assumptions.
It was evident from our interaction with management and the Valuers and from reading the valuation reports that close attention had been paid to each propertys individual characteristics at a granular, unit-byunit level, as well as considering the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole.
The evaluation of what were the right assumptions to apply to any given property included determining the level of impact that recent significant market transactions should have on each individual propertys valuation, given its unique characteristics.
We observed discussions between management and the Valuers which evidenced that alternative assumptions were considered and evaluated before the final valuation was determined.
We found that the assumptions used in the valuations were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
98 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus With respect to the acquisition of Puerto Venecia we inspected the Acquisition of Puerto Venecia, Zaragoza purchase agreements and assessed managements determination of and subsequent part disposal the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, including the valuation On 19 January 2015 intu acquired the Puerto Venecia shopping centre methodology applied and the assumptions underlying the acquisition in Zaragoza, Spain, with consideration of 273.5 million paid in return date valuation.
We assessed whether the classification as a business for investment property valued at 450.8 million, together with other combination and treatment of the various aspects of the transaction assets and liabilities including 181.0 million of external debt which was were in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations which defines a repaid and refinanced on acquisition.
The acquisition was treated as a business as an integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of business combination.
Refer to note 40. being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return in Subsequently, on 30 September 2015, the Group entered into a joint the form of dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits directly venture agreement with CPPIB intu properties partner in the Parque to investors or other owners, members or participants.
Key factors we Principado shopping centre, selling 50 per cent of its interest in Puerto considered were that the acquisition involved the purchase of relevant Venecia for consideration of 122.3 million.
This part disposal has inputs the property and leases and processes including staff and resulted in Puerto Venecia, previously accounted for as a subsidiary, management contracts to run the centre that would enable the being accounted for as a joint venture from the date of part disposal.
purchased business to operate independently of the rest of the Refer to note 41.
Group in order to generate a return.
With respect to the part disposal, we read the sale and purchase agreement and other documents related to the sale to check whether it was appropriate to account for Puerto Venecia as a joint venture.
No issues arose from these procedures: the shareholders agreement grants each party an equal number of board members all with equal voting rights and, because all decisions about the relevant activities of the business require the consent of both parties, Puerto Venecia was deemed to be subject to joint control.
We also considered the disclosures in the financial statements in respect of the initial acquisition and the subsequent part disposal and found that they were in accordance with applicable accounting standards IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
How we tailored the audit scope In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we assessed the risk of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, likelihood and potential magnitude of any misstatement.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Although the Group has some interests in shopping centre operations outside the UK and the Group is structured as two operating segments, it operates a single reporting process with a centralised accounting function, therefore the whole business was subject to the same audit scope.
The Group and Company financial statements are produced using numbers which are maintained on a single, consolidated trial balance, by the Groups finance department.
The majority of the underlying accounting records are maintained on the Groups single general ledger.
For Manchester Arndale, Cribbs Causeway, Centaurus Retail Park and St Davids, Cardiff rental income and property expense numbers are submitted quarterly by external property managers to the Groups finance department, who then review and enter the numbers onto the Groups general ledger.
We perform tests of controls over the review of the quarterly submissions and entry onto the Groups general ledger, and tests of details over the numbers within those submissions.
Quarterly submissions are also submitted to the Groups finance department for intu Asturias and Puerto Venecia, from the intu Spain finance team.
We carry out controls testing over these submissions in the same manner as for the UK submissions.
The UK audit team instructs the audit team in PwC Spain to perform specified substantive procedures on the submission packs for the Spanish centres.
Puerto Venecia was in scope for the first time this year, following acquisition in 2015.
The UK audit team determined the level of audit work required over the Spain submission packs by the audit team in Spain, and held regular discussions throughout the planning and execution phases of the audit.
We assessed the findings of the work performed by the audit team in Spain in order to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
co. uk Accounts 99 Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 101 million 2014: 96 million How we determined it 1 per cent of total assets Rationale for benchmark applied in arriving at this judgement we had regard to the carrying value of the Groups assets, acknowledging that the primary measurement attribute of the Group is the carrying value of investment property.
This represents a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality Specific Group materiality 9 million 2014: 8 million.
Applied to net rental income and expenses How we determined it 5 per cent of underlying profit before tax and associates Rationale for benchmark applied in arriving at this judgement we have had regard to underlying operating profit acknowledging that this is a secondary measurement attribute of the Group We agreed with the Audit Committee that, for areas based on overall Group materiality, we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million 2014: 8 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 109, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 58 to 93 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
100 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 94, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and to report.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 72 to 75, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the to report.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 37 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing material to that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would add or to draw attention to.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing material to or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 71 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to We have nothing material to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider add or to draw attention to.
that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
co. uk Accounts 101 Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 94, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Ranjan Sriskandan Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 February 2016 Notes The maintenance and integrity of the intu properties plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
