Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Financial statements continued Land Securities Annual Report 2015 083 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Land Securities Group PLC Opinion on financial statements This report is made solely to the Companys made by the directors: and the overall presentation In our opinion: members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work the financial and non-financial information in the the financial statements give a true and fair has been undertaken so that we might state to the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys members those matters we are required with the audited financial statements and to identify companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of to state to them in an auditors report and for no any information that is apparently materially the Groups profit for the year then ended: other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Group financial statements have been properly we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone the knowledge acquired by us in the course of prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by other than the Company and the Companys performing the audit.
If we become aware of any the European Union: members as a body, for our audit work, for this apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies the parent company financial statements have report, or for the opinions we have formed.
we consider the implications for our report.
been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as Respective responsibilities of directors Our assessment of risk of material adopted by the European Union and as applied in and auditor misstatement and response to that risk accordance with the provisions of the Companies As explained more fully in the Directors The table below shows the risks we identified that Act 2006: and Responsibilities Statement set out on page 82, the have had the greatest effect on the overall audit the financial statements have been prepared directors are responsible for the preparation of the strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: in accordance with the requirements of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they and directing the efforts of the engagement team, Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit together with our audit response to the risk.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and express an opinion on the financial statements This year we have included accounting for complex in accordance with applicable law and International acquisitions and disposals and consideration of What we have audited Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those transaction arrangements as a risk of material We have audited the financial statements of Land standards require us to comply with the Auditing misstatement given that a number of such Securities Group PLC for the year ended 31 March Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
transactions have taken place in the financial year.
2015 which comprise the Group Income Statement, Last year we included the risk of management Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the override of internal controls as a risk of material An audit involves obtaining evidence about the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and misstatement: this year we have excluded this amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Company Statements of Cash Flow, the Group and separate risk given that, in our view, the risk of sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Company Statements of Changes in Equity and management override relates specifically to the risks financial statements are free from material the related notes 1 to 43.
The financial reporting of material misstatement in relation to the valuation misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This framework that has been applied in their preparation of the investment property portfolio and revenue includes an assessment of: whether the accounting is applicable law and International Financial recognition as set out in the table below.
policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the parent companys circumstances and have been European Union and, as regards the parent company consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the financial statements, as applied in accordance with reasonableness of significant accounting estimates the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement and response to that risk Table 60 Risk How the scope of our audit addressed the risk The valuation of the investment property Our audit procedures around the valuation of investment property included: portfolio as described on page 53 of the Report We evaluated the Groups controls over data used in the valuation of the investment property portfolio and managements of the Audit Committee and note 15 of the review of the valuations.
We performed testing over source documentation provided by the Group to the external valuers.
This included agreeing a The valuation of investment property including sample of this documentation back to underlying lease data and vouching costs incurred to date data provided in respect of properties within the development programme development properties as well as assessing the costs to complete information.
and investment properties held in joint ventures We included Chartered Surveyors on our audit team who reviewed and challenged the valuations for a sample of properties.
requires significant judgement and estimates by Together we met with the external valuers to assess and challenge the valuation approach and assumptions such as in respect management and the external valuers.
Any input of estimated rental value, yield profile and other assumptions that impact the value such as development costs to complete inaccuracies or unreasonable bases used in these and we considered the external valuers qualifications.
judgements such as in respect of estimated We assessed managements review of investment valuations and we attended meetings between management and the rental value and yield profile applied could result external valuers to assess for evidence of management influence and we obtained a confirmation from the external valuers in a material misstatement of the income that they had not been subject to influence from management.
In order to assess for evidence of management influence, in conjunction with our Chartered Surveyors, we performed a There is also a risk that management may comparison of the assumptions such as in respect of estimated rental value and yields, used by the external valuers to our influence the significant judgements and knowledge of the property market and other external data.
estimates in respect of property valuations in We performed site visits accompanied by our Chartered Surveyors for a sample of properties focusing primarily on development order to achieve property valuation and other properties which enabled us to assess the stage of completion of, and gain specific insights into, these developments.
performance targets to meet market expectations or bonus targets.
We met with project managers for major properties under development and assessed project costs, progress of development and leasing status and verified the forecast costs to complete included in the valuations as well as identified contingencies, exposures and remaining risks.
We corroborated the information provided by the project managers through valuation review, site visits and cost analysis.
We conducted detailed analytical procedures by reference to external market data to evaluate the appropriateness of the valuations adopted by the Group and investigated further the valuations of those properties which were not in line with our expectations.
084 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Land Securities Group PLC continued Our assessment of risk of material misstatement and response to that risk continued Table 60 Risk How the scope of our audit addressed the risk Revenue recognition, including the timing of Our audit procedures around revenue recognition included: revenue recognition, the treatment of rents We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition, the treatment of rents and other property related income incentives and other property related revenue to assess the controls to prevent and detect fraud and errors in revenue recognition.
This included testing the controls as described on page 53 of the Report of the governing approvals and changes to lease terms and the upload of this information to the Groups property information Audit Committee and note 5 of the financial management system.
We also performed controls testing on the billings process.
Detailed analytical procedures were performed in connection with revenue including rents, incentives and other property Market expectations and revenue profit based related revenue to assess whether revenue had been recognised in the appropriate accounting period.
targets may place pressure on management to We performed detailed testing for a sample of revenue transactions by agreeing them back to lease agreements.
This included distort revenue recognition.
This may result in focusing upon incentives included within lease agreements and we critically assessed whether the appropriate accounting overstatement or deferral of revenues to assist treatment had been followed.
in meeting current or future targets or We agreed a sample of lease agreements to the spreadsheets used to calculate straight-lining of revenue in accordance with expectations.
SIC 15 Operating Lease - Incentives and corroborated the arithmetical accuracy of these spreadsheets and the resulting amounts in revenue for straight-lining of incentives.
We challenged the assessment of recoverability of the tenant lease incentive receivable balance by evaluating the financial viability of the major tenants with related lease incentive debtors.
We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We performed audit procedures specifically designed to address the risk of management override of controls including journal entry testing, which included particular focus on journal entries which impact revenue, and applying particular professional scepticism to revenue transactions.
Accounting for complex acquisitions and Our audit procedures around accounting for acquisitions and disposals and consideration of transaction arrangements disposals and consideration of transaction included: arrangements as described on page 53 of the We obtained and reviewed the sale and purchase agreements entered into for the property transactions which took place in Report of the Audit Committee and notes 41 the year.
and 42 of the financial statements.
We assessed the judgements applied in determining whether acquisitions in the year represented an acquisition of an asset or The Group made a number of significant a business combination.
This involved assessing whether or not the entities and the assets acquired constitute the carrying on acquisitions and disposals during the year.
The of a business, i. e. whether there are inputs and processes applied to those inputs that have the ability to create outputs.
contractual arrangements for such transactions Where transactions met the definition of a business combination we audited the Groups assessment of the assets and can be complex and require management to liabilities acquired and the allocation of the purchase consideration to these and the resultant goodwill or gain on bargain apply judgement in determining whether a purchase recognised.
transaction represents an acquisition of an We obtained and reviewed the due diligence report prepared for the Bluewater transaction which was the most significant asset or a business combination.
There is a risk that the estimates and judgements As the Bluewater transaction involved the Group acquiring the management contract for the shopping centre, we involved made in the recognition of an acquisition as a internal valuations experts to help us audit the valuation of the asset management contract for Bluewater which included business combination may be inappropriate and challenging the assumptions used by management in the valuation.
the valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired Where the Group had recognised a disposal in the year we assessed whether the significant risks and rewards of ownership had may be misstated.
been transferred to the buyer as at the date upon which the sale was recognised.
Furthermore, there is a risk that property disposals may be recognised before the We assessed the accounting for the transactions to verify that they were accounted for and, where appropriate, disclosed in the financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
significant risks and returns of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Our application of materiality materiality as the magnitude of misstatement appropriately low level the probability that We apply the concept of materiality both in that makes it probable that the economic decisions the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying misstatements exceeds materiality for the the effect of misstatements on our audit and on on the financial statements, would be changed financial statements as a whole.
For the purposes of or influenced.
We also determine a level of The table below sets out the materiality, determining whether the financial statements are performance materiality which we use to determine performance materiality and threshold for free from material misstatement we define the extent of testing needed to reduce to an reporting audit differences applied on our audit.
Application of materiality Table 61 Performance Basis Materiality materiality Audit differences Overall 0.5% of carrying value of investment properties, 1% of equity 61.0m 46.0m 3.0m 2014: 50.0m 2014: 25.0m 2014: 2.5m Account balances not related to investment Profit before tax, excluding the impact of the net surplus on revaluation 19.0m 14.0m 0.9m properties either wholly owned or held within of investment properties either wholly owned or held within joint 2014: 18.0m 2014: 9.0m 2014: 0.9m joint ventures ventures Adjusted PBT Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Financial statements continued Land Securities Annual Report 2015 085 When establishing our overall audit strategy, An overview of the scope of our audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: we determined a magnitude of uncorrected The Group solely operates in the United Kingdom the Directors statement, set out on page 82, misstatements that we judged would be material for and operates through two segments, London and in relation to going concern: and the financial statements as a whole.
We determined Retail, both of which were subject to the same audit the part of the Corporate Governance Statement that the carrying value of investment property scope.
Therefore, the whole Group was subject to a relating to the Companys compliance with the ten would be the most appropriate basis for determining full audit.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code overall materiality given that the Groups investment The Group audit team performed all the work specified for our review.
property balance accounts for around 82% of the necessary to issue the Group and parent company Groups total assets and the fact that key users of the audit opinion, including undertaking all of the audit Groups financial statements are primarily focused work on the risks of material misstatement on the valuation of the investment property identified above.
This provided a basis for determining the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment Companies Act 2006 Eamonn McGrath Senior statutory auditor procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of In our opinion: for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, material misstatement and determining the nature, Statutory Auditor the part of the Directors Remuneration Report timing and extent of further audit procedures.
London to be audited has been properly prepared in On the basis of our risk assessments, together 18 May 2015 accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall the information given in the Strategic Report and performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for the Directors Report for the financial year for misstatement in an individual account or balance which the financial statements are prepared is for the Group should be 75% 2014: 50% of consistent with the financial statements.
Our objective in adopting this approach Matters on which we are required to report is to confirm that total detected and undetected by exception audit differences do not exceed our materiality for We have nothing to report in respect of the the financial statements as a whole.
The increase in following: overall performance materiality compared to 2014 Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to is due to our expectation, based on our prior year report to you if, in our opinion, information in the experience, that it is unlikely misstatements will annual report is: exceed 25% of planning materiality, and due to the fact that as the prior year audit was our initial materially inconsistent with the information in the audit we had to set performance materiality at audited financial statements: or 50% of materiality.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or We have determined that for other account materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the balances not related to investment properties Group acquired in the course of performing our either wholly owned or held within joint ventures audit: or a misstatement of less than materiality for the is otherwise misleading.
financial statements as a whole could influence the economic decisions of users.
We have determined In particular, we are required to consider whether that materiality for these areas should be based we have identified any inconsistencies between our upon profit before tax, excluding the impact of the knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors net surplus on revaluation of investment properties statement that they consider the Annual Report is either wholly owned or held within joint ventures fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Adjusted PBT.
We set performance materiality Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters for these balances at 75% 2014: 50% of this lower that we communicated to the Audit Committee level of materiality.
The increase in performance which we consider should have been disclosed.
materiality for these balances compared to 2014 is Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to due to our expectation, based on our prior year report to you if, in our opinion: experience, that it is unlikely misstatements will exceed 25% of this lower level of materiality for adequate accounting records have not been kept these balances, and due to the fact that as last year by the parent company, or returns adequate for was our initial audit we had to set performance our audit have not been received from branches materiality at 50% of materiality.
not visited by us: or We agreed with the Audit Committee that we the parent company financial statements and the would report to the Committee all audit differences part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be in excess of 3.0 million, as well as audit differences audited are not in agreement with the accounting in excess of 0.9 million that relate to our specific records and returns: or testing of the other account balances not related to certain disclosures of Directors remuneration investment properties.
We also agreed to report specified by law are not made: or differences below those thresholds that, in our view, we have not received all the information and warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
explanations we require for our audit.
