Auditors report Opinion on financial statements of LondonMetric Going concern Property Plc As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the In our opinion: directors statement contained on page 93 that the group isa going concern.
We confirm that: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs we have concluded that the directors use of the going as at 31 March 2015 and of the groups profit for the year concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the then ended: financial statements is appropriate: and the group financial statements have been properly we have not identified any material uncertainties that prepared in accordance with International Financial maycast significant doubt on the groups ability to Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the continue as a going concern.
European Union: However, because not all future events or conditions the parent company financial statements have been canbepredicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom thegroups ability to continue as a going concern.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, the Group and Parent Company balance sheets, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group cash flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 20 for the Group Financial Statements and the related notes i to vii for the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
LondonMetric Property Plc 96 Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements Our assessment of risks of material mis-statement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Property valuation see note 9 We assessed managements process for reviewing The Group owns a portfolio of predominantly retail and and assessing the work of the external valuer and distribution property assets, which is valued at 1,400.4 million, development appraisals.
including share of joint venture properties, as at 31 March 2015.
We obtained the external valuation reports and met with The valuation of the portfolio is a significant judgement area the external valuers of the portfolio to discuss the results of and is underpinned by a number of assumptions including their work.
We assessed the valuation process, performance i capitalisation yields ii future lease income and iii with of the portfolio and significant assumptions and critical reference to development properties, costs to complete.
judgement areas, including lease incentives, future lease income and yields.
The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers to fair value the Groups portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
We assessed the competence, objectivity and integrity of The portfolio excluding development properties is the external valuer.
valued by the investment method of valuation with We tested a sample of properties through benchmarking development properties valued by the same methodology of yields, understanding the valuation methodology and with a deduction for all costs necessary to complete the wider market analysis together with testing the integrity of a development together with an allowance for remaining risk.
sample of the information provided to the external valuer by agreeing that information to underlying lease agreements.
The valuation exercise also relies on the accuracy of theunderlying lease and financial information provided We tested a sample of the costs to complete in relation tothevaluers by management.
to the development properties via agreement to supporting documentation Refer to page 72 Audit Committee report, page 105 accounting policy and note 9 on page 114 financial disclosures.
Property transaction accounting see note 9 We assessed the fair value of consideration and confirmed The Group has undertaken a large number of property key transaction terms by reference to acquisition or disposal acquisitions for a total consideration of 308.9 million and agreements and other external evidence for all significant disposals for total proceeds of 288.7 million including share acquisitions and disposals in the year.
of joint ventures, including the disposal of One Carter Lane.
We considered the date at which the transactions completed based on the timing of the transfer of risks These transactions can include complexities such as rental and rewards of ownership per the acquisition or disposal top-up payments, conditionality and deferred completion agreements, and considered the impact of these mechanics or joint venture contractual obligations, requiring transactions on revenue recognition.
judgement as to the appropriate accounting to be applied.
We considered the adequacy of the disclosure of Refer to page 72 Audit Committee report, page thetransactions in the financial statements.
105 accounting policy and note 9 on page 14 We recalculated the profit or loss on disposals based financial disclosures.
Revenue recognition see note 3 As part of our audit of revenue, we focused on any unusual Accounting for unusual or more complex items including and complex adjustments to revenue, agreeing the lease rentfree periods and capital incentives is complex, incentives for a sample of items to the underlying leases.
requiringan understanding of specific terms and conditions Werecalculated the required adjustment to the annual rent which vary between contracts.
in relation to these items to determine whether the correct amount of revenue had been recognised in the year.
Refer to page 73 Audit Committee report, page 106 accounting policy and note 3 on page109 financial disclosures.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 97 Auditors report continued Last year our report included one other risk which is not An overview of the scope of our audit included in our report this year: impairment of intangible Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding assets a significant proportion of the intangible asset of the Group and its environment, including group-wide was written off in the prior year and the remaining controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at intangible asset balance is no longer material to the group the group level.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led financial statements.
by the Senior Statutory Auditor, responsible for the audit of Our audit procedures relating to these matters were the Company and each of its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
designed in the context of our audit of the financial Our audit work on subsidiaries and joint ventures is carried statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on out to a materiality which is lower than, and in most cases individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the substantially lower than, Group materiality as set out above.
financial statements is not modified with respect to any of Our audit also included testing of the consolidation process the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion and group-wide controls.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Our application of materiality Companies Act 2006 We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement In our opinion: in the financial statements that makes it probable that the the part of the Remuneration Committee report to be economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person audited has been properly prepared in accordance with would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in the Companies Act 2006: and planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the the information given in the Strategic Report and the results of our work.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the We determined materiality for the Group to be 16.0 million financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 2014: 15.2 million which, as in 2014, is below 2% of financial statements.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA Earnings as a critical performance measure for the Matters on which we are required to report group and we applied a lower threshold of 2.0 million by exception 2014: 1.3 million based on 5% of that measure, as in 2014, Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records for testing of all balances and classes of transactions which impact that measure, primarily transactions recorded in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report the income statement other than fair value movements on toyou if, in our opinion: investment property, development property and derivatives.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 0.3 million 2014: 0.3 million, as well as differences below parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on not been received from branches not visited by us: or qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee the parent company financial statements are not in on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing agreement with the accounting records and returns.
theoverall presentation of the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
The Audit Committee has asked us to report on the level Directors remuneration ofunadjusted misstatements identified during our audit.
We did not identify any unadjusted misstatements for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to reporting matters to the Audit Committee.
report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Remuneration Committee report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
LondonMetric Property Plc 98 Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements Corporate governance statement This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken thepart of the corporate governance statement relating so that we might state to the companys members those to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the matters we are required to state to them in an auditors UKCorporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent report arising from our review.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Our duty to read other information in the annual report to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, the opinions we have formed.
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Scope of the audit of the financial statements materially inconsistent with the information in the audited An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts financial statements: or and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially give reasonable assurance that the financial statements inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired are free from material misstatement, whether caused by inthe course of performing our audit: or fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether otherwise misleading.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have In particular, we are required to consider whether been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: we have identified any inconsistencies between our the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the statement that they consider the annual report is fair, financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial balanced and understandable and whether the annual and non-financial information in the annual report to report appropriately discloses those matters that we identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial communicated to the audit committee which we consider statements and to identify any information that is apparently should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities implications for our report.
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that Claire Faulkner they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Senior Statutory Auditor FCA audit and express an opinion on the financial statements For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP, statutory auditor in accordance with applicable law and International London Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards United Kingdom 2 June 2015 require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls andsystems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 99
