Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Redefine International P. L. C. Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Redefine International P. L. C. for the year ended 31 August 2015 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK & Ireland.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 August 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: and the parent company balance sheet gives a true and fair view in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31August2015.
Our assessment of the risks of material misstatement The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional judgement, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
In arriving at our audit opinion on the Group financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows: Risk Our response Valuation of investment property In this area our audit procedures included, among others: The valuation of the Groups investment properties involves significant judgements assessing managements process for reviewing and addressing the work of made by management using the advice of the external valuers, particularly those the external valuers: around the selection of valuation models and the inputs to those models, current assessing the competence, objectivity and integrity of the external valuers.
market conditions and rental levels.
This assessment included but was not limited to, assessing their professional qualifications, experience and independence from the Group: The valuation exercise also relies on the completeness and accuracy of the underlying lease and financial information provided to the valuers by management.
discussing with the external valuers to gain an understanding of: the valuation process adopted: the significant assumptions used and critical judgement areas in the valuation process including break clauses, future lease income and yields: and the performance of the relevant portfolio.
for certain portfolios, using our own valuation specialists to assist us in critically assessing the valuation methodology applied, and whether it is in line with accounting requirements and also to challenge key inputs in light of market indicators: testing on a sample basis the integrity of the information provided to the independent valuers and used in valuing the properties by agreeing that information to underlying agreements: and considering the adequacy and completeness of the disclosures associated with investment property.
In this area our audit procedures included, among others: Transaction risk and accounting for complex transactions The Group has undertaken a number of transactions during the year including: agreeing the transaction details to the underlying legal agreements: challenging managements judgements by inspecting the sale and purchase the acquisition of joint venture interests in a number of companies which hold agreements and other related documents and by assessing each transaction 56 German retail properties: against the recognition, measurement and classification criteria according to the acquisition of an additional 44.9% shareholding in CIREF Premium the Groups accounting policies and the applicable IFRS: Holdings Limited which had previously been accounted for as a joint venture: assessing the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of and the retained interest in the former subsidiaries, as well as the fair value of decreasing its shareholding in two former subsidiaries, Ciref Berlin 1 Limited the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in light of available market through the sale of shares in a subsidiary outside the Group and Ciref Berlin information: and Portfolio 2 Limited through the contribution of shares in a subsidiary to an considering the adequacy of the disclosures associated with the transactions existing Group joint venture, resulting in joint venture arrangements, as well as in the financial statements.
certain other property acquisitions and disposals.
Considering the high level of activity and complexity associated with these transactions, a risk exists that they are not appropriately accounted for or disclosed in the financial statements.
70 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Basis of our report, responsibilities and restrictions on use of the scope of our audit As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 12.3 million page69, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 2014: 5.9 million.
This has been calculated using a benchmark of total assets of and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to which it represents 1%, which we have determined, in our professional judgement, audit and express an opinion on the Group and Company financial statements in to be one of the principal considerations within the financial statements relevant to accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK & members of the Company in assessing financial performance of the Group.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils International P. L. C. as a property company, is asset focused with the return Ethical Standards forAuditors.
generated by the Group largely dependent on the assets held.
An audit undertaken in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland involves obtaining We report to the Audit Committee all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.6 million 2014: 0.3million, to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of The Group consists of a number of components, all of which, with the exception of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation the Groups 25.3% investment in Redefine BDL Hotel Group Limited are accounted of the financial statements.
for at the Groups head office in London.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the components accounted for at the Group level as if it was a single aggregated In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report set of financial information.
These components represent 99.3% of total assets: to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 99.4% of total revenue and 99.4% of Group profit before taxation.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the The audit was performed using the materiality level set out above.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies The remaining 0.7% of total assets: 0.6% of total revenue and 0.6% of Group profit we consider the implications for our report.
before taxation is represented by the Groups investment in Redefine BDL Hotel Whilst an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland is designed to Group Limited which is considered immaterial to the Groups financial position.
provide reasonable assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather the auditor plans the audit to determine the 4.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that we are required to report by exception the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed ISAs UK & Ireland require that we report to you if, based on the knowledge we materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct acquired during our audit, we have identified information in the annual report significant audit work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, income and expenses as that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial well as devoting significant time of the most experienced members of the audit team, statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
in particular the engagement partner responsible for the audit, to subjective areas of In particular, we are required to report to you if: the accounting and reporting.
we have identified any inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body.
Our audit work has during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides information necessary we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
for Shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and Tothe fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to strategy: or anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Audit and Risk Committee report does not appropriately disclose those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee.
N. Marshall The UK Listing Authority require us to review: for and on behalf of KPMG the Directors statement, set out on page 66, in relation to going concern: Chartered Accountants, Statutory Audit Firm 1 Harbourmaster Place the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 44 to 53 and International Financial Services Centre page 69relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Dublin 1 UKCorporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Ireland certain elements of disclosures in the report to Shareholders by the Board of Directors Remuneration Committee.
28 October 2015 We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 71
