Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SEGRO plc Opinion on financial statements of SEGRO plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained in Note 1 to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group on page 65.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 64 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 66 to 70 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 61 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our audit approach Materiality Overall Group materiality: 40.0 million which represents 12% of total Group net assets Lower threshold materiality, applying to Adjusted profit before tax: 6.9 million which represents 5% of Adjusted profit before tax Areas of focus 1.
Valuation of the property portfolio 2.
Accounting for financing transactions and valuation of complex financial instruments 4.
Accounting for significant transactions 114 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
The description of risks below should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee on page 89.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
1 Valuation of the property portfolio Risk description SEGRO plc owns and manages a portfolio of modern warehousing, light industrial and data centre properties in the UK and Continental Europe.
The property portfolio is valued at 5,770.9 million as at 31 December 2015, of which 4,461.6 million is held by subsidiaries and 1,309.3 million by joint ventures at share.
The valuation of the portfolio is a significant judgement area and is underpinned by a number of assumptions.
The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material misstatement on the income statement and balance sheet, warrants specific audit focus in this area.
The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers to fair value the Groups portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
The valuers are engaged by the Directors and performed their work in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional Standards.
The valuers used by the Group have considerable experience in the markets in which the Group operates.
The portfolio excluding development properties is valued by the investment method of valuation with development properties valued by the same methodology with a deduction for all costs necessary to complete the development together with a remaining allowance for risk.
Key inputs into the valuation exercise are yields and current market rent, which are influenced by prevailing market forces, comparable transactions and the specific characteristics of each property in the portfolio.
Refer to Audit Committee Report on page 89, accounting policy on page 127 and Note 15 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit We assessed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work of the external valuers.
responded to the risk We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the external valuers and read their terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations on their work.
We performed audit procedures to assess the integrity and completeness of information provided to the independent valuers relating to rental income and occupancy.
For development properties, we assessed the Groups development appraisal process by assessing the forecast cost to complete and commitments of key developments.
We obtained the external valuation reports for all properties and confirmed that the valuation approach is in accordance with RICS and suitable for use in determining the carrying value in the balance sheet.
We met with the external valuers of the portfolio to discuss the results of their work on a sample of properties.
Our sample focused on the largest properties in the portfolio and those where the assumptions used and or year-onyear capital value movement implied a possible outlier against available market data and the remaining portfolio.
With the assistance of a member of the audit team, who is a chartered surveyor, we discussed and challenged the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and significant assumptions and critical judgement areas, including occupancy rates, yields and development milestones: and We benchmarked and challenged the key assumptions to external industry data and comparable property transactions, in particular the yield.
Key observations We are satisfied that the key assumptions applied in calculating the property valuations are within an acceptable range.
The testing performed in relation to the final property valuations proved satisfactory.
115 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SEGRO plc continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued 2 Appropriateness of revenue recognition Risk description Revenue for the Group primarily consists of rental income earned on its investment property portfolio.
Total revenue for the year to 31 December 2015 totalled 248.5 million, of which 210.7 million was rental income.
Within revenue, there are certain transactions which warrant additional audit focus and have an increased inherent risk of error due to their non-standard nature.
Our risk of material misstatement focuses on the accounting treatment for such unusual or more complex items including lease incentives and the cut-off around property transactions.
Refer to Audit Committee Report on page 90, accounting policy on page 127 and Note 4 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit We carried out testing relating to the design and implementation of controls over revenue recognition, the responded to the risk treatment of rents and other property related income to assess the controls to prevent and detect fraud and errors in revenue recognition.
We have assessed the review of new leases by the Groups finance teams, to determine whether lease incentives granted are appropriately accounted for at the beginning of such transactions.
We continued to assess the Groups revenue recognition policies to determine whether these are in line with the applicable reporting framework and industry peers.
Detailed analytical procedures were performed in connection with revenue including rents, incentives and other property related revenue to assess whether revenue had been recognised in the appropriate accounting period.
We have tested the accounting treatment of lease incentive calculations, with our sample covering both existing and new leases, by recalculating the relevant income statement and balance sheet amounts.
Property acquisitions and disposals in the period were tested to determine whether the accounting treatment is consistent with revenue recognition policies adopted.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and we found no material instances of inappropriate revenue recognition.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to revenue recognition were found to be in line with IFRS and industry peers.
3 Accounting for financing transactions and valuation of complex financial instruments Risk description The Group had drawn 330.3 million of its committed bank facilities at 31 December 2015, with a total of 217.9 million of undrawn facilities remaining on the balance sheet.
On 8 July 2015, the Group had entered into two new revolving credit facilities for 150 million.
In September and October 2015, the Group repaid two bonds for 100 million and 108 million respectively.
To hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risks from external debt and foreign operations, the Group holds complex derivative instruments which are held at fair value.
The fair value of these derivatives at 31 December 2015 amounted to an asset of 55.8 million.
Such instruments give rise to a significant audit risk due to their complexity both in terms of valuation and disclosure.
On 31 March 2015, the Group restructured its interest rate swap portfolio which resulted in a close out cost of 34.0 million 24.8 million which has been recognised as a finance cost in the current period.
Refer to Audit Committee Report on page 90, accounting policy on page 127 and Notes 19 and 20 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit We have reviewed the Groups treasury policy and determined whether appropriate approval has been obtained for significant financing transactions.
responded to the risk We have assessed managements calculations of derivative valuations and hedge effectiveness documentation to test accuracy of calculations and compliance with accounting standard criteria.
We have substantively tested each significant financing transaction where changes in borrowing facilities have been agreed to relevant executed documentation and resulting cash flows.
We have audited the current year interest rate swap restructuring by substantively agreeing to counterparty termination confirmations and new trade confirmations.
The resulting cash cost has been agreed to underlying source data.
We have used our financial instruments specialists to test the valuation and presentation of a sample of complex financial instruments, hedging arrangements and credit risk.
We have tested the accuracy and completeness of the relevant disclosures in the financial statements.
Key observations The valuation of financial instruments, as tested by our specialists recalculation, was within the acceptable range.
The current year interest rate swap restructuring has been tested with no issues noted.
Our procedures on other significant financing transactions were satisfactory.
116 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 4 Accounting for significant transactions Risk description SEGRO plc has undertaken a number of material acquisitions and disposals in the year, totalling 602.5 million and 268.6 million respectively.
There is a risk that transactions may have complexity, including deferred consideration arrangements, rental top-up payments or other contractual obligations which are not appropriately recorded within the financial statements.
There is a risk that the estimates and judgements made in the recognition of an acquisition as a business combination may be inappropriate and the valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired may be misstated.
Furthermore, there is a risk that property disposals may be recognised before the significant risks and returns of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Within the acquisitions and disposals in the current year: the most significant transaction has been the disposal of Energy Park Milan, Italy for 118.7 million, in March 2015: and the acquisition of 90% interest in Vailog Srl, Italy, in June 2015 for 39.7 million has been treated as a business combination which required measurement of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired on the date of the transaction.
The consolidated financial statements include disclosures relating to the business combination, as required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Refer to Audit Committee Report on page 90, accounting policy on page 127 and Notes 8 and 15 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit We have assessed managements review of sale and purchase agreements and how these are directing the subsequent responded to the risk accounting treatment.
We substantively audited each significant transaction to determine whether it has been appropriately recognised in line with the Groups accounting policy.
We reviewed the sale-purchase agreements SPAs for these transactions, in particular focusing on the transfer of risks and rewards in determining the timing of recognition of acquisitions and disposals.
We considered the date at which each transaction completed based on the acquisition or disposal agreements to assess whether appropriately recognised in the period based upon the risks and rewards of ownership.
We reviewed the nature of each transaction to assess the ownership and control structures involved, to evaluate the classification of transactions as either corporate or asset acquisitions.
Calculations of any profit or loss on disposal has been recalculated using all key transaction terms.
We tested the accuracy and completeness of the disclosures in the financial statements.
For business combinations, we inspected the purchase agreements and assessed managements determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
We focused on the fair value of the acquired properties, including the valuation methodology applied and the assumptions within the acquisition date valuation.
We considered the reasons for the movements in the valuation between the acquisition date and the closest valuation point, in order to assess whether there was information which came to light which should have impacted on the purchase price fair values.
In the current period this was completed for the Vailog Srl acquisition.
We have also considered those transactions which have been exchanged and or completed subsequent to 31 December 2015 to determine whether they have been recorded in the appropriate period.
Key observations Our testing of material transactions in the period was completed with no exceptions, with all significant transactions completed in line with the Groups accounting policy and IFRSs.
All material transactions have been recorded in the appropriate period.
117 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SEGRO plc continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic ofmateriality decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 40.0 million 2014: 40.0 million which is 12 per cent 2014: between 12 per cent of net assets.
In addition to net assets, we consider Adjusted Profit Before Tax to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 6.9 million 2014: 6.5 million based on 5 per cent 2014: 5 per cent of that measure for testing of all balances impacting this financial performance measure, primarily revenue.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.8 million 2014: 0.8 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of thefinancial statements.
Materiality m Net assets Overall materiality 3,488.1 40.0 Lower threshold materiality 6.9 Audit committee reporting threshold 0.8 An overview of the scope Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including internal control and ofour audit assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
We perform full scope audits on 6 2014: 6 significant components, including joint ventures, located within each of the SEGRO plc reportable segments.
These components together comprise circa 97 per cent 2014: 96 per cent of total Group net assets and 93 per cent 2014: 93 per cent of Adjusted profit before tax.
Our audit work at each of these components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each component, which in all instances was lower than Group materiality.
Group net assets % Adjusted profit before tax % Desktop reviews Desktop reviews 3 7 Full scope audits Full scope audits 97 93 The majority of the work on the key audit risks was performed centrally, including in respect of all valuations, material transactions and financing items.
Outside of the UK, where applicable, the Group audit team conducts a programme of planned visits designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years.
118 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Statement Companys compliance with the certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in information in the Annual the Annual Report is: Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Directors and auditor an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Scope of the audit of the reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
financial statements This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Claire Faulkner Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 18 February 2016 119 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
