SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE 105 Independent auditors report To the members ofShaftesbury PLC Our audit approach Report on the financial statements Overview Our opinion materiality in our opinion: Ov erall Group materiality: 30.8 Shaftesbury PLCs Group financial statements and Company million which represents 1% of total financial statements the financial statements give a true and assets.
fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys S pecific Group materiality: 3.4 affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of the Groups profit and million which represents 5% of materiality the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then profit before tax excluding ended: investment property valuation movements and net finance costs.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in The specific Group materiality has accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Audit scope been applied to certain revenue IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and expense line items and related the Company financial statements have been properly prepared working capital balances.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Audit scope and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Areas Companies Act 2006: and of focus Th e Group audit team carries out the statutory audits of all the financial statements have been prepared in accordance components within the Group and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as the consolidation.
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Area of focus Regulation.
What we have audited the scope of our audit and our area of focus The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, We conducted our audit in accordance with International comprise: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the Group and Company Balance Sheets as at 30 September 2015: We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective then ended: judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year estimates that involved making assumptions and considering then ended: future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for we also addressed the risk of management override of internal the year then ended: and controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of due to fraud.
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, is the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial identified as an area of focus in the table that follows.
These are cross-referenced from the financial also set out how we tailored our audit to address this specific statements and are identified as audited.
area in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the list of all risks identified by our audit.
Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
106 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE iNDEpENDENt AuDitORS REpORt CONTINUED AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS Valuation of investment properties The valuers used by the Group, DTZ, for the wholly-owned portfolio and Knight Frank for the joint venture portfolio, are well-known firms, Refer to pages 78 to 81 Audit Committee Report, pages 125 to 126 with considerable experience of the Groups market.
We assessed the Notes to the financial statements note 12 and pages 115 to 121 competence, capabilities and objectivity of the firms, and verified Significant Accounting Policies.
We also discussed the scope of their work and The valuation of the Groups investment properties is the key reviewed the terms of their engagement in order to check that there component of the net asset value and of the Groups result for the were no unusual terms or fee arrangements.
Based on this work, we year.
The Groups investment properties were held at 2,908.0m as were satisfied that the firms remain independent and competent, and at 30 September 2015 with a gain in revaluation of investment that the scope of their work was appropriate.
In addition, the We agreed the data inputs underpinning the investment property Group financial statements reflect 215.0m of investment properties valuation for a sample of properties, including rental income, representing the Groups 50% share of its joint venture and a gain in acquisitions and capital expenditure, by agreeing them to the revaluation of these properties of 34.6m 2014: 32.4m.
underlying property records held by the Group to assess the The valuations are carried out by third party valuers in accordance with reliability, completeness and accuracy of the underlying data.
The the RICS Valuation - Professional Standards and IFRS 13.
A summary of underlying property records were assessed for reliability by reviewing the third party valuers report covering the wholly-owned portfolio signed and approved lease contracts or sale purchase contracts and can be found on pages 144 to 145 of the Annual Report.
by reviewing approved third party invoices.
All leases and contracts The Groups investment properties are carried at fair value using a are held by independent lawyers.
There are significant judgements and estimates to We met with the external valuers independently of management and be made in relation to the valuation of the Groups investment obtained the valuation reports to discuss and challenge the properties.
Where available, the valuations take into account evidence assumptions used and the reasons behind the significant movements of market transactions for properties and locations comparable to in the valuations.
These related primarily to yield compression and those of the Group.
The Groups portfolio comprises retail, restaurants, offices and We involved our internal valuation specialists to compare the residential property focused solely in the West End of London.
Where valuations of each property to our independently formed market the Group owns a significant number of properties in close proximity, expectations and challenged any differences.
In doing this we used these valuations are performed on a lotted basis as allowed by the evidence of comparable market transactions and focused in provisions of the RICS Valuation Professional Standards.
This particular on properties where the growth in capital values was higher reflects the manner considered most likely to be adopted in the case or lower than our expectations based on market indices.
Generally, of an actual sale and reflects that a potential purchaser could we found the assumptions and valuations to be in line with our capitalise on the estate management advantages and opportunities expectations.
Where assumptions did not fall within our expected available from the comprehensive ownership.
range, we assessed whether additional evidence presented in arriving As a result the range of variables to be taken into account when at the final valuations was appropriate.
Variances were predominantly making the key judgements and assumptions associated with the due to rent reviews or new lettings at higher rents or movements in revaluation is narrower than for some other property companies.
ERV and yield to reflect market transactions in close proximity.
We The most significant judgements and estimates affecting the verified the movements to supporting documentation.
valuations included assumptions regarding yield movements and We discussed the upward movements in the valuation with the estimated rental value ERV growth, both of which have moved Directors and Audit Committee and found they were able to provide favourably reflecting the buoyancy of the central London property explanations and refer to appropriate supporting evidence.
We focused our work on these key judgements as well as on the robustness of the valuation process in general.
The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property valuations when aggregated could result in a material misstatement, is why we gave specific audit focus and attention to this area.
All parts of the Group, including the joint venture, were identified How we tailored the audit scope as requiring an audit of their complete financial information, We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
Entities enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial holding investment properties including the joint venture were statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the considered relevant due to the significant judgement around the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry investment property valuation.
Holding companies were in which the Group operates.
considered relevant due to third party borrowings which are material in size and nature.
This work, all of which was carried The Groups properties are combined into five villages spread out by the Group audit team, together with additional across seven statutory entities.
The Group financial statements procedures performed on the consolidation, gave us sufficient are a consolidation of the seven entities, the parent company appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group financial and two holding companies, and include the Groups joint venture statements as a whole.
on an equity accounting basis.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE iNDEpENDENt AuDitORS REpORt CONTINUED 107 However, because not all future events or conditions can be Materiality predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and Other required reporting extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures.
It also helped in evaluating Consistency of other information the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: t he information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements Overall Group 30.8 million 2014: 22.0 million are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and materiality t he information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 75 with respect to internal control and risk How we 1% of total assets management systems and about share capital structures is determined it consistent with the financial statements.
Specific 3.4 million 2014: 3.3 million iSAs uK & ireland reporting materiality Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, How we Consistent with last year, 5% of profit before in our opinion: determined it tax before net finance costs and investment property valuation movements I nformation in the Annual Report is: - materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Rationale for As explained above, the key area of focus in financial statements: or benchmarks the audit is the valuation of investment properties applied and the balance sheet as a whole.
Given this, - apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially we set an overall Group materiality level based inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company on total assets.
In addition, a number of key acquired in the course of performing our audit: or performance indicators of the Group are driven - otherwise misleading.
by income statement items and we therefore We have no exceptions to report.
also applied a lower specific materiality to evaluate certain revenue and expense line t he statement given by the directors on page 104, in accordance items and related working capital balances with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.5 million information necessary for members to assess the Groups and 2014: 1.1 million for financial statement line items where overall Companys performance, business model and strategy is materiality applied and 170,000 2014: 165,000 for line items materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and where specific materiality applied as well as misstatements Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
below these amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for We have no exceptions to report.
t he section of the Annual Report on pages 78 to 81, as required Going concern by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
statement, set out on page 114, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
We have no exceptions to report.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are also required to report to you if we The directors assessment of the prospects of have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to the Group and of the principal risks that would adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing t he directors confirmation in the Annual Report, in accordance the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least including those that would threaten its business model, future one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part performance, solvency or liquidity.
of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
108 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE iNDEpENDENt AuDitORS REpORt CONTINUED the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks Responsibilities for the financial and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
statements and the audit We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation in the Annual Report, in accordance with Our responsibilities and those of the directors Provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their Statement set out on page 104, the directors are responsible for statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the preparation of the financial statements and for being the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs qualifications or assumptions.
Those standards require us to comply with the We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other relation to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume pages 59 to 66.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save directors process supporting their statements: checking that the where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent What an audit of financial statements involves with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and review.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This Adequacy of accounting records and includes an assessment of: information and explanations received wh ether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently if, in our opinion: applied and adequately disclosed: we have not received all the information and explanations we t he reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by require for our audit: or the directors: and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the t he overall presentation of the financial statements.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, the Company financial statements and the part of the and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Directors remuneration substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to information in the Annual Report to identify material be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to Companies Act 2006. identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Other Companies Act 2006 reporting based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration become aware of any apparent material misstatements or specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew paynter Senior Statutory Auditor Corporate governance statement For and on behalf of  LLP Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not London been prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions to 24 November 2015 report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 109 Financial statements Group statement of comprehensive income 110 Balance sheets 111 Cash flow statements 112 Statements of changes in equity 113 Notes to the financial statements 114
