STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Tritax Big Box REIT plc Opinion on financial statements Statement of Financial Position and parent company Balance In our opinion: Sheet, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation state of the Groups and the parent companys affairs as of the Group financial statements is applicable law and at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted then ended: by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that the Group financial statements have been properly prepared has been applied in preparing the parent company financial in accordance with International Financial Reporting statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Standards.
the parent company financial statements have been properly Our application of materiality prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and Standards: and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements the financial statements have been prepared in accordance on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality is assessed with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, on both quantitative and qualitative grounds.
as regards the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of the Materiality 10.0 million IAS Regulation.
Performance materiality 7.5 million Specific materiality 1.5 million Overview Reporting threshold 0.1 million Materiality Overall Group materiality of 10.0 million which represents 0.8% of total assets.
Materiality Audit scope The whole Group was subject to a full audit.
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate could reasonably be expected to influence the We have obtained an understanding of economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
the controls in place at the Group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks We determined materiality for the Group financial statements as of material misstatement due to fraud or error as well as assisting us in determining a whole to be 10.0 million 2014: 6.0 million, which was set at the most appropriate audit strategy.
This provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our risk assessment Areas of focus Valuation of the investment property portfolio procedures, identifying and assessing risk of material and in particular property under construction misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further forward funded assets.
What has We increased our focus on the risks changed since associated with investment property under We determined that the carrying value of investment property our 2014 audit construction as a result of the increase in would be the most appropriate basis for determining overall the significance of these assets.
materiality given that the Groups investment property We reduced our assessment of risk arising balance accounts for around 92% 2014: 82% of the Groups from inappropriate revenue recognition total assets and the fact that users of the Groups financial because revenue is due contractually under statements are primarily focused on the valuation of the long term property lease agreements with investment property portfolio.
single tenants and there were no significant new lease incentives in 2015.
We determined that for other account balances, classes What we have audited of transactions and disclosures not related to investment We have audited the financial statements of Tritax Big Box properties, a misstatement of less than materiality for the financial REIT plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise statements as a whole could influence the economic decisions 73 the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group of users.
We have determined that materiality for these areas Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT should be 1.5 million 2014: 0.6 million, which was set at 5% In addition we read all the financial and non financial information 2014: 5% of EPRA adjusted earnings.
EPRA adjusted earnings in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with excludes the impact of the net surplus on revaluation of the audited financial statements and to identify any information investment properties and interest rate derivatives.
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of Performance materiality performing our audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material The application of materiality at the individual account or balance misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level our report.
the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
Tailoring the scope of our audit and our assessment of risks of material misstatement On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our the risks of material misstatements in the financial statements.
judgment was that overall performance materiality for the In particular we looked at where the Directors make subjective Group should be 75% 2014: 75% of materiality, namely judgements.
We also addressed the risk of management 7.5 million 2014: 4.5 million.
override of internal controls, including assessing whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of Reporting threshold material misstatement due to fraud.
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
The Group operates solely in the United Kingdom and through one segment, investment property.
The Group audit team We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the performed all the work necessary to issue the Group and parent Committee all individual audit differences in excess of 100,000 company audit opinion, including undertaking all of the audit 2014: 75,000 as well as differences below this threshold that, work on the key risks of material misstatement.
in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The table opposite shows the risks we identified that had the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the of resources in the audit, and the directing of efforts of the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
engagement team, together with our audit response to the risks.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
An overview of the scope of an audit of the financial statements This year we included accounting for investment properties We conducted our audit in accordance with International under construction forward funded assets as a key area of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
focus given that some 25% of the Groups properties were under An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts construction during the year and accounting for such assets is and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give typically more complex than the Groups standing assets.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement whether caused by fraud or error.
Last year we included revenue recognition as a key area: this This includes an assessment of: year we have reduced our risk assessment given that, in our view, the risk of material misstatement from inappropriate whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the revenue recognition within the Groups portfolio of investment Groups and parent companys circumstances and have been property is low because of the long term contractual nature of consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Groups rental income and because there were no significant the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made new lease incentives in 2015 a potential area of judgement.
by the Directors: and The Audit Committees consideration of the judgements set out the overall presentation in the financial statements.
74 in this section is set out on page 61.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE RISK Valuation of investment property portfolio, including We obtained an understanding of the approach to the properties under construction forward funded assets valuation of both investment properties and properties under The valuation of investment property requires significant construction.
judgement and estimates by management and the external valuer and is therefore considered a significant risk due to the subjective We met with the Groups external valuer, who valued all of the nature of certain assumptions inherent in each valuation.
Groups investment properties, to understand the assumptions and methodologies used in valuing these properties, the The Groups investment property portfolio includes: market evidence supporting the valuation assumptions and the valuation movements in the year.
Standing investments: these are existing properties that are currently let.
They are valued using the income capitalisation We used our knowledge and experience to evaluate and method.
challenge the valuation assumptions, methodologies and the unobservable inputs used.
Properties under construction: these are properties being built under forward funded agreements with developers We agreed the accuracy of the key observable valuation inputs and which have agreed pre lets with tenants.
Such assets supplied to and used by the external valuer and Directors as have a different risk and investment profile to standing appropriate.
They are valued using the residual method ie by estimating the fair value of the completed project We assessed the competency, independence and objectivity using the income capitalisation method less estimated costs of the external valuer.
to completion and an appropriate developers margin.
For properties under construction we assessed project costs Any input inaccuracies or unreasonable bases used in the and progress of development and verified the forecast costs to valuation judgements such as in respect of estimated rental complete included in the valuations through cost analysis.
value and yield profile applied and estimated costs to complete for assets under construction could result in a material For such forward funded assets we also reviewed the misstatement of the income statement and statement of accounting treatment of licence fees receivable from the financial position.
developer during the construction phase as well as the treatment of any lease incentives with the pre let tenant, There is also a risk that management may influence the by reference to the agreement with the tenant.
significant judgements and estimates in respect of property valuations in order to achieve property valuation and other performance targets to meet market expectations.
Additionally, properties under construction may involve licence fees receivable from the developer during the construction phase and lease incentives to the pre let tenant.
Accounting for such assets is typically more complex than for standing assets.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a As explained more fully in the statement of Directors body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied state to the Companys members those matters we are required that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
75 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or In our opinion: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the in the course of performing our audit: or Companies Act 2006: is otherwise misleading.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the In particular, we are required to consider whether we have Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired statements are prepared is consistent with the financial during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider statements: and the Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Report and Accounts appropriately discloses the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee set out on pages 58-59 with respect to internal control which we consider should have been disclosed.
and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes is consistent with the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Statement regarding the Directors assessment of principal adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns risks, going concern and longer term viability of the Company adequate for our audit have not been received from branches We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in not visited by us: or relation to: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the Directors confirmation in the annual report that they have the accounting records and returns: or carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: law are not made: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks we have not received all the information and explanations we and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared the Directors statement in the financial statements about by the Company.
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months the Directors statement, set out on page 59, in relation to from the date of approval of the financial statements: or going concern and longer-term viability: and the Directors explanation in the annual report as to how the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review by period they have done so and why they consider that period the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related Richard Levy senior statutory auditor disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor London or assumptions.
United Kingdom 16 March 2016 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England 76 you if, in our opinion, information in the Report and Accounts is: and Wales with registered number OC305127.
