INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc Our audit approach Report on the financial statements Overview Our opinion In our opinion, J D Wetherspoon plcs financial statements Materiality the financial statements : n Overall materiality: 3.89m which represents 5% of profit before tax and before exceptional items.
n give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 26 July 2015 and of its profit and cash flows Audit scope for the 52 week period the period then ended: n The Company comprises one legal entity in the UK with n have been properly prepared in accordance with an immaterial branch in the Republic of Ireland and, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs accordingly, our audit is focused on J D Wetherspoon plc as adopted by the European Union: and in the UK.
No significant work is performed on the n have been prepared in accordance with the Republic of Ireland branch as a standalone entity, owing requirements of the Companies Act 2006. to its immateriality.
What we have audited Areas of focus The financial statements comprise: n Impairment of property, plant and equipment.
n the balance sheet as at 26 July 2015: n Exceptional items.
n the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended: n the cash flow statement for the period then ended: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus n the statement of changes in shareholders' equity for We conducted our audit in accordance with the period then ended: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland n the accounting policies: and ISAs UK & Ireland.
n the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Certain required disclosures have been presented financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements the directors made subjective judgements, for example in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the respect of significant accounting estimates that involved financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the making assumptions and considering future events that financial statements and are identified as audited.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal The financial reporting framework that has been applied controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our Overview resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored The context to our audit our audit to address these specific areas in order to Our 2015 audit was planned and executed having regard provide an opinion on the financial statements as a to the fact that J D Wetherspoons operations were whole, and any comments we make on the results of our largely unchanged in nature from the previous year and procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a the UK economy had a level of underlying low growth complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
with no significant regulatory changes impacting the pub sector.
In light of this, our approach to the audit in terms of scoping and areas of focus was largely unchanged, albeit we no longer had the determination of deferred tax liabilities as a heightened risk following the agreement reached by J D Wetherspoon in the prior year with HMRC as to items that would be deemed as qualifying capital expenditure for capital allowance purposes.
We also had regard to the heightened regulatory focus on commercial income, but whilst we increased our work on this area, it was not a significant area of focus given the size of the amounts involved and the relative lack of complexity.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 43 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of property, plant We assessed managements impairment paper and underlying analysis and and equipment challenged the assumptions adopted by management in performing its As set out in note 12 to the financial review.
These included discount rates and individual pub profitability statements the Company has a large forecasts.
We tested the profitability forecast on an individual pub basis and portfolio of pubs with a net book focused our detailed work on those pubs which had either previously been value of 1.2 billion.
Given the size impaired or where anticipated future cash flows suggested that a potential of the amounts capitalised and the impairment may be required.
We used our valuation specialists and external risk attendant with any sizeable retail market data to assess the appropriateness of the discount rate used.
We business that some units may prove considered that the discount rate applied was appropriate.
to be unprofitable, we focused on the assessment made by management of We tested managements budgeting accuracy by comparing a sample of any impairment of property, plant and individual pubs budgeted profit against forecast profits for the 2015 year equipment required at an individual end for evidence of the reliability of the Companys budgeting process.
factored the results of this work into our broader impairment assessment.
We tested, with reference to the entire pub estate, that all pubs which initial assessments identified as potentially not generating sufficient cash to cover the capital base, were subject to more detailed scrutiny.
No issues arose from this work.
We discussed the action plans in place and evaluated the reasonableness of those plans, where possible, for underperforming pubs where no impairment had been booked.
We further tested whether the required pub profitability improvement had been attained by the relevant pub historically.
We then scrutinised detailed analyses of individual pubs performance and action plans in place to enhance profitability to corroborate explanations provided to us by management as to the decision to impair or not or to reverse a previous impairment.
In addition we challenged management in relation to certain pubs where impairments were booked as to whether their decision to impair was appropriate.
Our view was that whilst the process that management followed to determine any impairment reversal involved significant judgements it was robust and that impairments and reversals booked were reasonable.
Furthermore we found no obvious indication of bias in the adjustments booked.
In instances where pubs had been sold, or surrender premiums agreed, we agreed this back to third-party documentation.
44 J D WETHERSPOON PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for onerous leases We checked and validated that all pubs in the portfolio were considered in Of the portfolio of pubs noted in the the process which management used to identify pubs which were potentially area of focus above, a large number subject to onerous leases.
are leasehold and, as a result, the company is committed to significant We tested details of rental obligations to rental agreements for a sample of future lease payments as set out in pubs in order to assess whether the rental commitments used by management note 24 to the financial statements.
in its calculations were appropriate with no issues arising from this work.
In the case of the Companys leasehold We checked the calculations used by management to identify pubs where pubs, there is a risk that indications existed, for individual pubs, that future profits were not expected underperforming pubs may not be able to cover future lease commitments associated with the related pub.
We to generate sufficient profit to cover discussed the action plans in place and evaluated the reasonableness of those their lease obligations and, as a result, plans, where possible, for underperforming pubs where no provision had require an onerous lease provision.
No issues arose to suggest that any pubs had been set out in note 22 the company holds inappropriately excluded from the provision calculation.
a provision of 5.1m for future lease obligations where the cost of those For all pubs identified as potentially having onerous leases we tested the obligations exceeds the economic calculation of the net present value of future cash flows used to determine benefits expected to be received under the provisions recorded.
Additionally we assessed the discount rate used for the lease.
We focused on this area appropriateness by comparing it with the Companys marginal borrowing rate because of the size of the leasehold satisfying ourselves that the provisions booked were appropriate.
We further portfolio, the significant judgements checked that the disclosures in the financial statements, in relation to onerous involved in identifying which pubs lease provisions fairly reflected the results of the calculations undertaken.
require a provision and the estimates involved in the calculation of the provision, including estimation of future cash flows at each pub and appropriate discount rates.
Exceptional items We tested the presentation of the exceptional items in the financial As set out in note 4 the financial statements by assessing whether the classification was in line with the statements include a net charge of Companys accounting policy on exceptional items set out on page 37 of the 12.6m in respect of exceptional items.
We found that the classifications determined by We focused on this area because management complied with the Companys definition of exceptional items.
exceptional items are not defined by IFRSs as adopted by the European We also assessed the appropriateness of this policy and whether separating Union and it therefore requires out the items included within exceptional items enhanced the understanding judgment by the directors to identify of the financial statements.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as exceptional is There were five exceptional items in the year: a net impairment charge important to maintain comparability of against property, a charge in respect of onerous leases, a one-off write-off of the results year on year.
non-consumable inventory, a charge for redundancy costs incurred in the period and a tax credit arising from a change in the calculation of deferred tax in relation to rolled-over gains.
In relation to the change in policy to write off non consumable inventory of 5.2m we specifically considered whether it would have been more appropriate to restate comparatives as if this policy had been in force previously but agreed with managements view that no previously reported period would be materially impacted by the change and that the inclusion as an exceptional item with suitable description provided the information necessary to understand the amounts involved and the impact on the financial statements.
We also debated with management whether the redundancy costs of 0.8m were of a sufficient scale to reflect as exceptional costs.
Our view was that this treatment provided more insight into this cost and did not significantly distort the reported results.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 45 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT How we tailored the audit scope Other required reporting As noted above, other than an immaterial branch in Ireland, J D Wetherspoons operations are all in the UK Consistency of other information through one legal entity.
We therefore subjected this entity to a full scope audit.
Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application n the information given in the Strategic Report and the of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for Directors Report for the financial year for which the materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, financial statements are prepared is consistent with the helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the financial statements: and nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to n the information given in the Corporate Governance evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and Statement set out on pages 60 to 65 with respect to on the financial statements as a whole.
internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the Based on our professional judgement, we determined financial statements.
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Overall materiality Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to 3.89m 2014: 3.95m.
you if, in our opinion: How we determined it n information in the Annual Report is: 5% of profit before tax and before exceptional items n materially inconsistent with the information in the unchanged from 2014. audited financial statements: or n apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Rationale for benchmark applied inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company Given the company is a profit orientated business, we acquired in the course of performing our audit: or believe that profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional n otherwise misleading.
items, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality, by eliminating the non-recurring We have no exceptions to report arising from disproportionate impact of these items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would n the statement given by the directors on page 50, in report to them misstatements identified during our audit accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate above 194,000 2014: 200,000 as well as Governance Code the Code, that they consider the misstatements below that amount that, in our view, Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the companys performance, Going concern business model and strategy is materially inconsistent Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the with our knowledge of the company acquired in the directors statement, set out on page 50, in relation to course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the companys n the section of the Annual Report on page 63, as financial statements using the going concern basis of required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately company has adequate resources to remain in operation, address matters communicated by us to the and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one Audit Committee.
year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the We have no exceptions to report arising from directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
46 J D WETHERSPOON PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Adequacy of accounting records and information This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and explanations received and only for the companys members as a body in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies to you if, in our opinion: Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any n we have not received all the information and other purpose or to any other person to whom this report explanations we require for our audit: or is shown or into whose hands it may come save where n adequate accounting records have not been kept, or expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or What an audit of financial statements involves n the financial statements and the part of the Directors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give with the accounting records and returns.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or We have no exceptions to report arising from this error.
This includes an assessment of: responsibility.
n whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently Directors remuneration applied and adequately disclosed: n the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Directors remuneration report Companies Act made by the directors: and 2006 opinion n the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the Other Companies Act 2006 reporting disclosures in the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors We test and examine information, using sampling and other remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of Corporate governance statement controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial has not been prepared by the company.
We have no information in the Annual Report to identify material exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor Responsibilities for the financial for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements and the audit London 10 September 2015 Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors a The maintenance and integrity of the J D Wetherspoon Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work preparation of the financial statements and for being carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements since they were initially presented the financial statements in accordance with applicable law on the website.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Standards for Auditors.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 47
