Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WORKSPACE GROUP PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion, Workspace Group PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : Overall Group materiality: 13.4m, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups which represents 1% of total assets.
affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of its profit and cash Specific materiality of 2.0m used flows for the year then ended: for certain income statement have been properly prepared in accordance with line items, being a percentage of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs the profit before tax excluding as adopted by the European Union: and changes in fair value of investment have been prepared in accordance with the properties and net finance costs.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Materiality The Group team carried out an audit of the complete financial What we have audited information of all the components Workspace Group PLCs financial statements comprise: within the Group, the consolidation Audit the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2015: and of the Groups share of the scope the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated profit and net assets of the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year joint ventures.
then ended: Areas the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Valuation of investment properties of focus year then ended: due to materiality and the level of the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity judgement involved.
for the year then ended: and Accounting for the Glebe Proceeds the notes to the financial statements, which include a Share Agreement PSA due to summary of significant accounting policies and other its technical complexity and the explanatory information.
Compliance with REIT regime due Certain required disclosures have been presented to the impact of the tax exempt elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the status on the Groups business Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial and the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Investments in joint ventures due financial statements and are identified as audited.
to the application of IFRS 11 for the first time in the current year.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements The scope of our audit and our areas of focus is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the We conducted our audit in accordance with European Union.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WORKSPACE GROUP PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment properties Refer to page 77 Audit Committee Report, pages 122 to 124 In order to assess the accuracy of the valuation of the property portfolio Notes to the financial statements Note 10 and page 113 as at 31 March 2015 and to identify those properties which needed further Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates.
investigation, we undertook an analysis of each property valuation and compared the yield adopted and movement in capital value over the year We focused on this area due to the magnitude of the investment with expected market benchmarks.
We evaluated the underlying valuation property balance and because the assumptions used in methodology and assumptions used by the valuer and met with the Groups determining the fair value of the investment properties involve Development Director to understand property specific factors.
The external valuer used by the Group is CB Richard Ellis CBRE.
We The Groups investment properties were valued at 1,408.9m as assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of CBRE and verified at 31 March 2015 and the revaluation gain of 318.0m is included its qualifications.
We also discussed the scope of its work and reviewed the within Change in fair value of investment properties in the terms of its engagements.
We found no unusual terms or fee arrangements Consolidated Income Statement.
that might affect its objectivity.
The property valuations are carried out by third party valuers We met with CBRE to discuss and challenge the valuation process, key in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards assumptions and the rationale behind the more significant movements since and Workspaces Group accounting policies which incorporate 1 April 2014.
Where relevant, we were able to corroborate the explanations the requirements of International Accounting Standard 40, for yields and ERV movements with comparable property transactions and Investment property.
The Groups property portfolio consists of office and industrial We found that yield rates and ERVs were predominantly consistent with properties located in London and includes: comparable benchmarking information for the locations of the assets and Properties held at investment value: These are existing assumptions appropriately reflected available comparable market transactions.
properties that are currently let and generate rental income.
Where assumptions did not fall within our expected range, we assessed whether They are valued using the income capitalisation method additional evidence presented in arriving at the final valuation was appropriate, as explained in note 10. and, whether this was robustly challenged by the external independent valuers.
We were satisfied that variances were predominantly due to property specific Properties held at development value: These are properties factors such as new lettings at higher rents, increased average rents or capital currently being refurbished, under development or identified improvements to the properties.
They have a different risk and investment profile to the properties held at investment value In addition, we were able to obtain evidence to support the valuation from and are valued using the residual value method as explained the results of the following procedures which did not identify any material in note 10. misstatements.
We: The most significant judgements affecting all the valuations checked the accuracy of the underlying lease and occupancy data used include yields and estimated rental value ERV growth as by CBRE in their valuation of the portfolio by tracing the data back to the described in note 10 of the financial statements.
For properties Workspace accounting records and signed leases on a sample basis: held at development value, other assumptions including costs to for the properties held at development value, evaluated the underlying complete, property specific factors and the likelihood of achieving assumptions around the gross development value, construction costs and planning consent are also factored into the valuation.
Where property specific factors within the development appraisals by comparing available, the valuations take into account evidence of market them to available market information and underlying project plans: transactions for properties and locations comparable to those of the Group.
agreed the acquisitions and disposals in the year to the underlying agreements, cash payments and receipts and title deeds: agreed a sample of capital expenditure items to invoices and cash to check that they had been correctly capitalised: and visited selected properties within the portfolio over the course of the year.
CBRE also valued the share of proceeds of any future sale of the residential developments from a number of historical property disposals overages.
Based on the timing and likelihood of receipt, these are classified within investment properties or receivables.
We agreed the arrangements to the signed sales contracts: verified the assumptions underpinning the valuation to supporting documentation: and agreed the classification of the amounts within investment properties or receivables based on the timing and likelihood of receipt.
Accounting for the Glebe Proceeds Share Agreement PSA Refer to page 77 Audit Committee Report, pages 133 to 134 In the current year, we tested the application of the accounting policy up to Notes to the financial statements Notes 19 and 20 and page 113 the termination date by confirming that properties where there was a legal or Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates.
constructive obligation to sell had been identified in determining the amount attributable to NCI.
We also checked that the amounts had been included at an On 22 December 2014, Workspace terminated the Glebe PSA appropriate fair value by reference to the CBRE valuation or other corroborative following a payment of 30m to the joint ventures former lenders, evidence and checked that the amount recognised as NCI up to the date of resulting in the non-controlling interest NCI being extinguished.
termination had been calculated in accordance with the accounting policy.
At the point of settlement, Workspace had profit attributable to the NCI of 20m in accordance with the accounting policies on We obtained and read the termination agreement and, having agreed the cash pages 116. settlement to bank statements, we were satisfied that the settlement had been appropriately accounted for by reference to applicable accounting standards.
We focused on the Glebe PSA because the accounting treatment of the NCI up to the date of settlement was complex Additionally, we checked, and were satisfied with, the disclosures in relation and judgemental, and because we needed to check that the to the recognition of NCI up to the date of termination and of the subsequent termination itself was accounted for appropriately, including termination of the agreement.
whether adequate disclosure had been made in the Annual Report.
In the prior year, the accounting treatment had been the subject of scrutiny by the Financial Reporting Council FRC refer to page 134.
During the current year, their enquiries were concluded on the basis of the adjustments and disclosures made in the Interim Statement.
Compliance with the REIT regime Refer to page 77 Audit Committee Report and page 113 We confirmed our understanding of managements approach to ensuring Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates.
compliance with the REIT regime requirements.
Workspace converted to a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT in We obtained managements calculations and supporting documentation, 2007.
The UK REIT regime grants companies tax exempt status checking the accuracy by verifying the inputs, calculation and application provided they meet the specific requirements within the regime.
We focused on this because the rules are complex and the tax We note that the Group is currently in discussions with HMRC regarding exempt status has a significant impact on the Groups business the application of the REIT criteria to certain aspects of the Groups business.
We discussed this with management and their tax advisors and, based on the evidence we obtained, we are satisfied that the Groups view of the matter which is set out in the Audit Committee Report is reasonable.
106 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Investments in joint ventures Refer to pages 125 to 126 Notes to the financial statements We obtained and read the documentation and contracts governing the structure Note 12 a and page 115 Significant accounting policies.
of the joint arrangements, the relevant Board minutes and other supporting documents.
This provided sufficient evidence to confirm that Workspace has We focused on this area because 31 March 2015 is the first year shared control over the key strategic and operational decisions, meaning that that IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements is applicable for the Consolidated it was appropriate for the joint arrangements to be equity accounted for as Financial Statements.
IFRS 11 requires that joint arrangements are joint ventures.
classified as either joint operations or joint ventures.
In the case of joint operations, the parties have rights and obligations relating We are also satisfied that sufficient and appropriate disclosures in accordance to the assets and liabilities relating to the arrangement and with IFRS 11 are included in the financial statements.
should account for their own rights and obligations.
In the case of joint ventures, the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement and should equity account.
There was particular judgement to be applied in the case of BlackRock Workspace Property Trust JV BWPT, where Workspace owns 20.1% of the arrangement.
Management concluded that, based on their day to day operation and the contractual arrangements in place, all the Groups arrangements, including BWPT, are joint ventures and should be equity accounted in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Workspace Group PLC provides commercial property to let throughout London.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the eight trading entities, two investment holding companies, one service company, the Parent Company entity and the Groups three joint ventures.
Except for the joint ventures, where we focused our work on the share of profits and net assets including investment properties that are recognised in the Group financial statements, all entities were identified as requiring an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics and all the audit work was performed by the Group audit team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 13.4m 2014: 11.2m How we determined it 1% of total assets Rationale for benchmark applied The key driver of the business and determinant of the Groups value is direct property investments.
Due to this, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation of investment properties.
On this basis, consistent with last year, we set an overall Group materiality based on total assets.
Specific materiality 2.0m 2014: 1.9m How we determined it As a percentage of profit before tax excluding changes in fair value of investment properties and net finance costs.
Rationale for benchmark applied A number of key performance indicators of the Group are driven by income statement items and we therefore applied, consistent with last year, a lower specific materiality to audit net rental income, finance costs, administrative expenses and the related working capital balances.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2m 2014: 0.2m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Report of the Directors, set out on page 100 to 104, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Report of the Directors, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WORKSPACE GROUP PLC CONTINUED Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on Other required reporting the financial statements in accordance with applicable Consistency of other information law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Companies Act 2006 opinion Standards for Auditors.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which This report, including the opinions, has been prepared the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the for and only for the Companys members as a body in financial statements.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving ISAs UK & Ireland reporting these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, other purpose or to any other person to whom this in our opinion: report is shown or into whose hands it may come save information in the Annual Report and We have no where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Accounts is: exceptions to report arising materially inconsistent with the information from this in the audited financial statements: or What an audit of financial statements involves responsibility.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to knowledge of the Group acquired in give reasonable assurance that the financial statements the course of performing our audit: or are free from material misstatement, whether caused otherwise misleading.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the statement given by the Directors on We have no page 104, in accordance with provision exceptions to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code report arising applied and adequately disclosed: the Code, that they consider the Annual from this the reasonableness of significant accounting Report and Accounts taken as a whole to be responsibility.
estimates made by the Directors: and fair, balanced and understandable and provides the overall presentation of the financial statements.
the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing with our knowledge of the Group acquired the Directors judgements against available evidence, in the course of performing our audit.
forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
the section of the Annual Report and We have no Accounts on page 76, as required by exceptions to provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing report arising We test and examine information, using sampling and the work of the Audit Committee does not from this other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider appropriately address matters communicated responsibility.
necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw by us to the Audit Committee.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures Adequacy of information and or a combination of both.
explanations received In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to information in the Annual Report and Accounts to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received identify material inconsistencies with the audited all the information and explanations we require for our financial statements and to identify any information that audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially this responsibility.
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of Directors remuneration any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to we consider the implications for our report.
report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not Other matter made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from We have reported separately on the Parent Company this responsibility.
financial statements of Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2015 and on the information in Corporate governance statement the Directors Remuneration Report that is described Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the as having been audited.
part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements Sonia Copeland and the audit Senior Statutory Auditor Our responsibilities and those of the Directors for and on behalf of  LLP As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors responsibilities set out on page 104, the Directors are London responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 2 June 2015 and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
108 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
