Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WORKSPACE GROUP PLC PARENT COMPANY Report on the Parent Company Adequacy of accounting records and financial statements information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required Our opinion to report to you if, in our opinion: In our opinion, Workspace Group PLCs Parent Company we have not received all the information and financial statements the financial statements : explanations we require for our audit: or give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent adequate accounting records have not been kept Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015: by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for have been properly prepared in accordance with our audit have not been received from branches United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting not visited by us: or Practice: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors have been prepared in accordance with the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in requirements of the Companies Act 2006. agreement with the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited We have no exceptions to report arising from Workspace Group PLCs financial statements comprise: this responsibility.
the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2015: and Directors remuneration the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and Directors Remuneration Report other explanatory information.
Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Certain required disclosures have been presented Report to be audited has been properly prepared in elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from Other Companies Act 2006 reporting the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures The financial reporting framework that has been of directors remuneration specified by law are not applied in the preparation of the financial statements made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting this responsibility.
Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Other required reporting Our responsibilities and those of the directors Consistency of other information As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Companies Act 2006 opinion responsibilities set out on page 104, the directors In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic are responsible for the preparation of the financial Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a year for which the financial statements are prepared is true and fair view.
consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on ISAs UK & Ireland reporting the financial statements in accordance with applicable Under International Standards on Auditing UK and law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Standards for Auditors.
Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in This report, including the opinions, has been prepared the audited financial statements: or for and only for the Parent Companys members as apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Company acquired in the course of performing We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume our audit: or responsibility for any other purpose or to any other otherwise misleading.
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed We have no exceptions to report arising from by our prior consent in writing.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 141 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WORKSPACE GROUP PLC PARENT COMPANY CONTINUED In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial What an audit of financial statements involves information in the Annual Report and Accounts to We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs identify material inconsistencies with the audited UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence financial statements and to identify any information that about the amounts and disclosures in the financial is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the that the financial statements are free from material course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies This includes an assessment of: we consider the implications for our report.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Other matter the reasonableness of significant accounting We have reported separately on the Group financial estimates made by the Directors: and statements of Workspace Group PLC for the year the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Sonia Copeland Senior Statutory Auditor We test and examine information, using sampling and for and on behalf of  LLP other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw London conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing 2 June 2015 the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
142 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
