INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF The Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements HAMMERSON PLC about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their In our opinion: identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December date of approval of the financial statements: 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Directors explanation on page 67 as to how they have The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its The parent company financial statements have been properly liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally including any related disclosures drawing attention to any Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Standard 101 FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the However, because not all future events or conditions can be Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income to continue as a going concern.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated INDEPENDENCE and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 28 for the Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are consolidated financial statements and the related notes A to H independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical for the parent company financial statements.
responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally The key risks we identified were: Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Valuation of the property portfolio Standard 101 FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Accounting for the acquisition of the Irish loan portfolio GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS Accounting for the investment in Value Retail ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY There has been no significant change in the Groups operations and OF THE GROUP our assessed risks of material misstatement described on page 115, As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors which are those that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the Statement contained on page 124 regarding the appropriateness of allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the engagement team.
We do however note the complex nature of the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longertransaction to acquire the 50% interest in the Irish loan portfolio term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report and have included detail on how the scope of our audit addressed the on page 67. specific risks relevant to that transaction within the Accounting for the acquisition of the Irish loan portfolio risk on page 115.
All other We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: risks are the same as the prior year.
The Directors confirmation on page 63 that they have carried out The description of risks on page 115 should be read in conjunction a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee including those that would threaten its business model, future discussed on page 81 and the significant accounting policies performance, solvency or liquidity: disclosed in note 1 of the financial statements.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a The disclosures on pages 62 to 67 that describe those risks and whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a explain how they are being managed or mitigated: separate opinion on these matters.
"114 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 114 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF The Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED HAMMERSON PLC about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their In our opinion: Valuation of the property portfolio identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability Hammerson plc ""Hammerson"" owns a portfolio of retail We assessed managements review of the work of the external The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the property assets valued at 7,255.8 million at 31 December 2015 valuer and development appraisals: the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December date of approval of the financial statements: 31 December 2014: 6,849.4 million of which 4,652.1 million 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: We met with the external valuers of the portfolio to discuss and The Directors explanation on page 67 as to how they have are held by subsidiaries 31 December 2014: 4,427.3 million challenge the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have and 2,603.7 million by joint ventures 31 December 2014: significant assumptions and critical judgement areas, including accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and 2,422.1 million."
The valuation of the portfolio including a estimated rental values and capitalisation yields.
We benchmarked IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation number of development properties is a significant judgement these assumptions to relevant market evidence including specific that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its area and is underpinned by a number of assumptions.
The parent company financial statements have been properly property sales and other external data: liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers to fair For development properties we assessed future costs to complete including any related disclosures drawing attention to any Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting value the Groups portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
The portfolio on a sample of development properties based on development necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Standard 101 FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and excluding development properties is valued using the investment appraisals.
We assessed the classification of development method of valuation, in which the principal assumptions are properties and whether the methodology applied i. e. investment or We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with estimated rental values and capitalisation yields.
Development residual method was appropriate.
We also challenged the accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the properties are valued by applying the same methodology, but with a allowances in the valuation for developers profit: However, because not all future events or conditions can be Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
deduction for all future costs necessary to complete the We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income development together with an allowance for remaining risk, external valuer: and to continue as a going concern.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, developers profit and purchasers costs the residual method.
We performed audit procedures to assess the integrity of the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Please see notes 11 and 12 to the financial statements.
INDEPENDENCE information provided to the independent valuer including and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated agreement on a sample basis back to underlying lease agreement.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 28 for the Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are Accounting for the acquisition of the Irish loan portfolio consolidated financial statements and the related notes A to H independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical Hammerson continued to implement its strategy of capital In respect of the acquisition of the Irish loan portfolio, we have for the parent company financial statements.
We also recycling, with a number of acquisitions and disposals completing reviewed the terms of the loan instruments acquired and assessed The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit during the year, the most significant of which was the acquisition of whether the Groups accounting policy for the acquisition of the services referred to in those standards.
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and a 50% interest in an Irish loan portfolio at a cost of 690.2 million.
loans is in accordance with IAS39 Financial Instruments IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting The loan portfolio, which is in default, is secured on a number of Recognition and Measurement.
This included assessing, on framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL prime Irish retail properties.
Negotiations to secure the consensual acquisition, the initial fair value of the loans of the Irish loan MISSTATEMENT company financial statements is applicable law and United conversion of the loan portfolio into the retail properties are portfolio and the loan provided to fund the acquisition.
We also Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally ongoing.
The acquisition was undertaken by a joint venture set up assessed the loan provided by the Group to the joint venture for The key risks we identified were: Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting by Hammerson and Allianz to acquire the Irish loan portfolio.
The credit risk and impairment indicators based on the valuation of the Valuation of the property portfolio Standard 101 FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Group funded the acquisition through a loan provided to the joint underlying properties: and venture of 690.2 million.
Accounting for the acquisition of the Irish loan portfolio We tested the accuracy and completeness of the disclosures in the GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS Hammersons accounting policy in respect of the transaction is financial statements.
Accounting for the investment in Value Retail ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT detailed in note 1 on page 125.
The complexity of the transaction, WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY There has been no significant change in the Groups operations and together with the unique nature of the asset from the Groups OF THE GROUP our assessed risks of material misstatement described on page 115, perspective, result in increased risk of inaccurate presentation As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors which are those that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the of the transaction.
This includes initial recognition of the loans Statement contained on page 124 regarding the appropriateness of allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the including interest and transaction costs at fair value together with the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the engagement team.
We do however note the complex nature of the accounting for credit risk and impairment indicators.
financial statements and the Directors statement on the longertransaction to acquire the 50% interest in the Irish loan portfolio Accounting for the investment in Value Retail term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report and have included detail on how the scope of our audit addressed the Hammersons interest in Value Retail carrying value of We planned the scope of the audit and instructed the auditor on page 67. specific risks relevant to that transaction within the Accounting for 743.8 million 31 December 2014: 628.8 million is equity of Value Retail accordingly: the acquisition of the Irish loan portfolio risk on page 115.
All other accounted as an associate.
We met with the auditor, Value Retail management and the We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: risks are the same as the prior year.
The valuation of the Groups investment in Value Retail is primarily external valuer of the Value Retail property portfolio to discuss and The Directors confirmation on page 63 that they have carried out driven by the valuation of the Value Retail property portfolio of challenge the valuation assumptions including future net operating The description of risks on page 115 should be read in conjunction a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 3,333.1 million 31 December 2014: 2,835.4 million of which income and capitalisation yields: with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee including those that would threaten its business model, future Hammersons share is 1,095.0 million discussed on page 81 and the significant accounting policies We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the performance, solvency or liquidity: 31 December 2014: 884.7 million.
This is subject to similar disclosed in note 1 of the financial statements.
These matters were external valuer: and judgements to those of the Groups property portfolio above, addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a The disclosures on pages 62 to 67 that describe those risks and We assessed the quality of the work performed by the auditor including future net operating income and capitalisation yields.
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a explain how they are being managed or mitigated: of Value Retail in the areas of borrowings, deferred tax and separate opinion on these matters.
Other key balances which impact the valuation of the Groups derivative financial instruments.
investment in Value Retail include borrowings, deferred tax and derivative financial instruments.
Please see note 13 to the financial statements.
COM 115 114 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 HAMMERSON.
COM 115 Independent Auditors report to the members of Hammerson plc continued OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT We determined materiality for the Group to be 40 million We performed a full scope audit on the UK and French 2014: 30 million components.
Value Retail and VIA Outlets were subject to audit of specific account balances.
There is no change We reported all audit differences in excess of 0.8 million from 2014 2014: 0.6 million All components were audited to component materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the which ranged from 10 million to 22 million financial statements that makes it probable that the economic December 2014: 12.6 million to 16.5 million decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our Together these four components account for 99% of the audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Groups net assets and 100% of profit before tax We determined materiality for the Group to be 40 million 2014: Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the 30 million, which is below 1% 2014: below 1% of shareholders Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and equity.
We determined materiality based on shareholders equity assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
as net asset value is a key performance indicator as it takes into Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope consideration the valuation of the Groups property portfolio and primarily on the audit work at four significant components being the investment in premium outlets.
the UK, France, Value Retail and VIA Outlets VIA 2014: four.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA Adjusted Profit Before Together these components comprise 99% 2014: 99% of the Tax as a critical performance measure for the Group and a measure Groups net assets and 100% 2014: 100% of profit before tax.
used within the Real Estate industry.
We applied a lower threshold of The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit, 10.9 million 2014: 7.8 million which equates to 5.1% 2014: 4.5% whilst Value Retail accounted for as an associate and audited by EY of that measure for testing all balances impacting that measure.
and VIA accounted for as a joint venture were subject to an audit of specified account balances, where the extent of our testing was based Group and component materiality on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
The UK and French components account for 85% of net assets.
Our audit work on Value Retail is specified in the assessment of the risks of Group materiality 40m material misstatement section above.
Component materiality 5,586m 10m to 22m Our audit work at the four locations was executed at levels of Audit Committee materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower reporting threshold 0.8m than group materiality and ranged from 10 million to 22 million 2014: 12.6 million to 16.5 million.
For those balances impacting Adjusted Profit Before Tax the materiality range was 2.6 million to Group net assets 6.0 million 2014: 3.2 million to 4.35 million.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.8 million 2014: or a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the 0.6 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our locations where the group audit scope is focused at least once every view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to two years.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We have obtained an understanding of the Groups system of internal controls and undertaken a combination of procedures, all of which are designed to target the Groups identified risks of material misstatement in the most effective manner possible.
116 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 116 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Independent Auditors report to the members of Hammerson plc continued OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANIES ACT 2006 AUDITOR We determined materiality for the Group to be 40 million We performed a full scope audit on the UK and French 2014: 30 million components.
Value Retail and VIA Outlets were subject In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, to audit of specific account balances.
There is no change the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial We reported all audit differences in excess of 0.8 million The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has from 2014 statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
2014: 0.6 million been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial All components were audited to component materiality 2006: and We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the statements in accordance with applicable law and International which ranged from 10 million to 22 million financial statements that makes it probable that the economic The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us December 2014: 12.6 million to 16.5 million decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed Report for the financial year for which the financial statements to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our Together these four components account for 99% of the are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Groups net assets and 100% of profit before tax Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, We determined materiality for the Group to be 40 million 2014: Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the REPORT BY EXCEPTION understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include 30 million, which is below 1% 2014: below 1% of shareholders Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and our dedicated professional standards review team and independent Adequacy of explanations received and equity.
as net asset value is a key performance indicator as it takes into accounting records Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope consideration the valuation of the Groups property portfolio and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, primarily on the audit work at four significant components being the investment in premium outlets.
in our opinion: in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the UK, France, Value Retail and VIA Outlets VIA 2014: four.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA Adjusted Profit Before Together these components comprise 99% 2014: 99% of the We have not received all the information and explanations we Companys members those matters we are required to state to Tax as a critical performance measure for the Group and a measure Groups net assets and 100% 2014: 100% of profit before tax.
require for our audit: or them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest used within the Real Estate industry.
We applied a lower threshold of The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit, Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 10.9 million 2014: 7.8 million which equates to 5.1% 2014: 4.5% whilst Value Retail accounted for as an associate and audited by EY company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members of that measure for testing all balances impacting that measure.
and VIA accounted for as a joint venture were subject to an audit of from branches not visited by us: or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we specified account balances, where the extent of our testing was based have formed.
Group and component materiality The parent company financial statements are not in agreement on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the with the accounting records and returns.
materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
The UK SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL and French components account for 85% of net assets.
Our audit We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
STATEMENTS work on Value Retail is specified in the assessment of the risks of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Directors remuneration material misstatement section above.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in assurance that the financial statements are free from material Our audit work at the four locations was executed at levels of our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to than group materiality and ranged from 10 million to 22 million audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been 2014: 12.6 million to 16.5 million.
For those balances impacting We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Adjusted Profit Before Tax the materiality range was 2.6 million to of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the Corporate Governance Statement 6.0 million 2014: 3.2 million to 4.35 million.
overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.8 million 2014: to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance or a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the 0.6 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our statements and to identify any information that is apparently Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
locations where the group audit scope is focused at least once every view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the two years.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we Our duty to read other information in the the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Annual Report their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are from their work.
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the financial statements: or aggregated financial information of the remaining components not Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We have inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP obtained an understanding of the Groups system of internal controls the course of performing our audit: or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor and undertaken a combination of procedures, all of which are London, United Kingdom designed to target the Groups identified risks of material Otherwise misleading.
misstatement in the most effective manner possible.
12 February 2016 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
COM 117 116 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 HAMMERSON.
