34 StrAteGiC rePOrt reVIeW oF operAtIonS Centres of excellence reSeArCH AnD DeVelopMent there has been a growing recognition of the benefits of consolidating research and development efforts and this is reflected in the move towards global Materials Centres of excellence.
the intent is that these Centres will be the acknowledged leader in the materials science and product development of the groups key technologies, maintaining Morgan as one of the very best advanced materials companies in the world.
regional management, who are closest to their customers, interact with the Centres to ensure that their efforts and focus retain a very strong commercial direction.
the demand placed on the Centres is that they will provide differentiated materials technology that is scalable across the Morgan group and that delivers quantifiable benefits and value for the groups customers.
the largest global Materials Centre of MiKe MUrrAy excellence is for the Insulating Fibre business CHIeF teCHnology oFFICer and this is based in Bromborough in the uK.
In 2014 the group announced the formation of a new Centre for Structural Ceramics that is based at the Stourport facility in the uK and the long-term profitable strength of Morgan the groups research and development will be operational in the early part of 2015.
Advanced Materials plc depends on constantly strategy is governed by three underlying refreshing the innovation pipeline to anticipate, principles: the Insulating Fibre Centre is a state-of-the-art or respond to, market needs.
the groups establishing global Material Centres facility employing 25 dedicated scientists research and development activities are of excellence to build critical mass focused on the continued development of headed and co-ordinated by the Chief and focused expertise in our core Morgans fibre product range.
Morgans technology officer, Dr Mike Murray, with technologies.
market-leading low bio-persistent Superwool research and development resource deployed using technology as key promoter of fibre technology and product range continued across the globe.
Whilst some of the regions one Morgan for the groups largest to be developed with patented materials or businesses may pursue local technology or largest potential customers.
the group is now extending the initiatives, the focus is primarily on those things Driving innovation and sales growth and operational temperature range, allowing it to that can be rolled out across the whole one targeting our chosen markets through provide customers with superior insulation Morgan infrastructure and so the group is our new Business Development pipeline performance, improved fire protection and presenting the technology review in a single nBDp tool.
weight-saving opportunities in more applications.
place rather than on the region-by-region there has been particular success in areas such basis of prior years.
the groups commitment to technology is as off-shore platforms, liquid natural gas demonstrated by the groups total research terminals and fire protection in tunnels.
and development spend in 2014 of 21.7 million, representing 2.3% of sales, an increase of just over 11% compared with 2013 on a like-for-like basis.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 35 teCHnologICAl exCellenCe IS At tHe HeArt oF MorgAnS ABIlIty to DelIVer WorlD-leADIng, InnoVAtIVe proDuCtS.
We HAVe A roBuSt AnD groWIng progrAMMe oF InVeStMent In reSeArCH AnD DeVelopMent, AnD ContInue to Set ourSelVeS ApArt By FoCuSIng on HIgH perForMAnCe proDuCtS AnD enSurIng tHAt We HAVe tHe BeSt people.
the Stourport Centre for Structural Ceramics the group has further developed its electro driving innovation and growth will similarly oversee the major materials science ceramics products including its piezoelectric the group uses a consistent, systematic developments for the group, allowing greater and microwave ceramics, high-voltage and process for managing new business global leverage on major scalable programmes.
A piezoelectric material has development across the whole one Morgan the facility will focus on leading-edge ceramic special properties that allows it to measure group.
this approach allows the group to materials developments to support both changes in pressure, acceleration, strain or identify the largest and most profitable growth current and new markets.
the initial focus will force by converting them to an electrical opportunities and allows decisions to be be on major opportunities that have been charge which can be measured.
Morgans effectively made in terms of deployment identified in the medical and aerospace sectors, continual development has allowed the of resource on those opportunities.
whilst a focus on new emerging markets and launch of a new range of piezoelectric technologies will ensure that Morgan Advanced composites.
these are designed for higher As part of the increasing focus on technology Materials stays at the forefront of materials resolution medical imaging, liquid and gas and innovation, the group has created a science.
this will include enhancing the flow measurement and sonar that have Morgan technical Advisory Board.
the group groups network of global technology partners improved acoustic performance for higher identified world-leading academics from to ensure it is positioned to work with the transmit-and-receive efficiency.
Morgans around the globe who are recognised as worlds best academics and research institutes.
materials continue to be developed to work subject-matter experts for a number of in harsh environments, such as ultrasonic Morgans key technology families.
this will the groups strategy is to continue to assess level sensors for the medical, oil and gas, provide a sounding board for Morgans plans the value creation in the formation of more pharmaceutical, aerospace and automotive for technical development of ceramic, carbon global Materials Centres of excellence that will environments.
For the medical market, and polymer composite products and processes support the opportunities the group is seeing these materials have enabled a technically and will keep Morgan Advanced Materials from the technology roadmaps for the groups advanced range of medical sensors to be abreast of the latest developments in materials materials technologies and products.
these produced, enhancing the development of science and it will advise on new areas where centres are being underpinned by the formation new drug delivery, dialysis, infusions and there may be opportunities for the group.
of a Morgan technology Advisory Board, that is enteral feeding solutions.
made up of some the worlds leading academics, Some of the specific areas of technology-led the groups carbon-based technologies to help ensure the group maintains and develops success in the group in 2014 are: have led the world for over 150 years its leading edge in new and emerging materials the groups braze alloys have led the and the group is still at the forefront science around the globe.
world in their ability to join dissimilar of materials science knowhow which materials together in a way that is not is enabling new and emerging market Supporting the One Morgan approach affected by extreme temperatures or sectors.
For example, during 2014 Morgan the groups materials technology is a unifying chemical attack.
this allows applications successfully developed and launched a feature across its regional structure and is a like deep-hole drilling for oil and gas new set of electrical brush and slip ring key promoter of the one Morgan ideal for exploration to work in harsher and more designs and materials that are increasing both the groups own organisation and for its hostile environments, or applications in power generation life and uptime in wind customers.
During 2014, many meetings have the aerospace sector to work at higher power.
Morgans materials technology is been held with the groups major existing and temperatures for greater engine efficiency.
specifically tailored to its operating potential customers, where the groups senior During 2014 the group successfully environment offering maximised commercial and technology management have developed a new, groundbreaking performance in harsh environments.
successfully presented the groups product capability of brazing carbon fibre, and technology portfolio in a single, consistent ceramics, composites or other engineered An exciting area identified that offers way, allowing the full range of the groups materials directly to a titanium honeycomb.
more medium-to longer-term opportunities capabilities to be demonstrated.
there has this technique brings together the best is graphene materials.
the group have been excellent engagement from a number qualities of both components, ensuring successfully entered into a strategic of these customers and this initiative has now a final material that is strong, lightweight, collaboration with the nobel prize-winning effectively been built in to the way the group and both impactand heat-resistant.
team at the university of Manchester focused does business and is expected to bring further these material combinations are ideal for on developing potential new processes and benefits in 2015 and beyond.
aerospace applications, especially on lifting end-market applications for graphene materials.
surfaces such as wings or flaps and the rear this demonstrates the groups continuing sections of engines, where combined high commitment to invest in cutting-edge strength and thermal transfer is critical.
technology and to ensure Morgan remains at the forefront of advanced materials science.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 36 StrAteGiC rePOrt reVIeW oF operAtIonS continued Business description Footprint nortH AMerICA For Morgan Advanced Materials, the north As at 31 December 2014 the north America America region comprises the uSA, Canada region comprises 23 operating sites employing and Mexico.
the financials of the north approximately 3,200 people.
the principal HIgHlIgHtS America region comprise those of all the manufacturing sites are in the uSA, Canada the thermal Ceramics, electrical Carbon businesses that are located within those and Mexico.
the Mexican operations are used and Seals and Bearings businesses countries, including the sales made directly to satisfy both the local market and, more performed well, partially offset by to and profits from third party customers importantly and increasingly, as an effective a weaker performance in technical outside of the region.
Sales made to Morgan low-cost point of supply to the uSA and to Ceramics, particularly from the ceramic companies outside of the region are not other Morgan businesses across the world.
included in north Americas reported revenue the region also has a comprehensive network region continues to deliver group-leading but the profit made on these inter-regional of sales offices allowing immediate access to mid-teen margins.
sales are included in north Americas results.
and facilitating direct working with end-users.
Some sales, particularly for the insulating fibre REVENUE the north America region offers the full and crucibles product ranges, are made m Morgan product range and the vast majority through a well-established distributor network.
2014 353.1 of revenue is from products made within the 2013 359.9 region.
north America has a number of Performance important primary processing sites that provide revenue for the north America region for Morgan businesses across the world with base the year was 353.1 million, representing REGIONAL EBITA materials, semi-finished and sometimes a decrease of 1.9% compared with m finished products, particularly in the electrical 359.9 million in 2013.
At constant currency brush and seals and bearings businesses.
revenue in the second half of 2014 was 2.9% higher 2013 55.5 As shown in the chart to the left, north than the first half at constant currency.
America serves all of the groups chosen end-markets.
of the three regions, it currently eBItA for the region was 52.5 million NORTH AMERICA has the greatest proportion of revenue from 2013: 55.5 million with the margin 2014 % OF REVENUE the higher margin end-markets such as maintained in the mid-teen range at 14.9% aerospace, included in transportation, and 2013: 15.4%.
Energy 5% Transportation 30% Security and Defence 6% Healthcare 8% Electronics 12% Petrochemical 8% Industrial 31% Definitions of the measures can be found in the Glossary of terms.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 37 Business review Priorities and outlook the technical Ceramics Business has had a the priorities of the north American region weaker 2014 compared to 2013, impacted by are to continue to deliver the real revenue a reduction in revenue at the Certech business growth it has achieved in 2014 and to further that provides ceramic cores used in the improve the current mid-teen profit margins.
manufacture of turbine blades for aerospace Margin-enhancing growth will be achieved and industrial gas turbines.
In addition the through the continued focus on positive mix Certech business also had a range of shift towards higher tech, secular growth operational and yield issues during 2014 with markets, such as aerospace, healthcare, a reduction in profit compared to 2013 of energy and emission control.
Benefits are 4.6 million at constant currency.
these yield also expected from the impact of the ongoing issues have improved through the latter part roll-out of market-leading, differentiated of the year but still require more work in 2015. technology, for example the Superwool range of high-temperature insulating fibre thermal Ceramics, electrical Carbon and products.
the region will also continue its Seals and Bearings all delivered good revenue focus on operational improvements, including and profit margin.
the thermal Ceramics expanding the use of low-cost Mexican Business continued to perform well through operations for the benefit of the whole group.
the year in niche automotive applications, fire protection, general industrial markets and an the order intake in north America has increased level of activity from large project remained positive through the year and this orders.
this business has continued to expand provides a good base for further progress the manufacturing capacity for Superwool as the region enters 2015. low bio-persistent fibre in 2014 as the region looks to continue the technology change to this highly differentiated material.
In the electrical Carbon business, increased demand across a number of end-markets and continued market share gains were the key drivers for growth.
petrochemical and water applications continued to be the main driver for growth in Seals and Bearings.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 38 38 S Str trA Ate teG Gi iC C r re ePO POr rt t StrAteGiC rePOrt 39 reVIeW oF operAtIonS continued Business description Footprint europe For Morgan, the europe region is defined As at 31 December 2014 the europe region as the uK, Continental europe and russia, comprises 25 operating sites and employs but excludes turkey, which is reported in a total of approximately 2,900 people.
HIgHlIgHtS Asia rest of World.
the financials of europe the principal manufacturing sites are in the eBItA margins continued to improve comprise all of the Morgan Advanced Materials uK, France, germany, luxembourg, Italy, to 12.2% 2013: 11.8% for the full year businesses that are located within the europe Hungary and russia.
reflecting the improvements made in the region.
It includes the sales made directly to cost base from restructuring actions.
and profits from third-party customers outside the region also has a number of sales offices good progress on portfolio reshaping the region.
Sales made to Morgan companies providing regional coverage and customer with acquisition of porextherm and outside the region are not included in europes proximity, allowing the regions people to effective exit of low-margin businesses.
reported revenue but the profit made on work directly with end-users.
Some use is these inter-regional sales are included in also made of well-established distribution REVENUE europes results.
m 2014 325.7 the europe region offers the full Morgan Performance product range and the vast majority of revenue revenue for the europe region for the year 2013 357.3 is from products made within the region.
was 325.7 million, representing a decrease Certain specific grades of material and some of 8.8% compared to 2013 357.3 million.
finished products are sourced from the north REGIONAL EBITA At constant currency the year-on-year decrease m America and Asia rest of World regions.
C&DS was the major contributor to this decline and like-for-like revenue, at 2014 39.8 As shown in the chart to the left, europe constant currency and adjusting for the impact 2013 42.0 serves all of the groups chosen end-markets.
of acquisitions and exits, for the rest of the region has a broad spread of end-market european business was flat.
the security and defence revenue EUROPE is primarily from the Composites and Defence eBItA for the region decreased to 39.8 million 2014 % OF REVENUE Systems C&DS business.
2013: 42.0 million, while the full-year margin continued to improve to 12.2% 2013: 11.8%, despite lower revenue.
Energy 5% Transportation 13% Security and Defence 13% Healthcare 7% Electronics 2% Petrochemical 7% Industrial 53% Definitions of the measures can be found in the Glossary of terms.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 38 StrAteGiC rePOrt S Str trA Ate teG Gi iC C r re ePO POr rt t 39 39 In July 2014 the group purchased the Business review Priorities and outlook porextherm business in germany for an the electrical Carbon and Seals and Bearings the region has made further progress in enterprise value of 26.0 million.
this businesses have shown growth year-on-year terms of profit margins, despite the challenge microporous insulating business complements offset by a generally weaker period of trading of a very low growth macro-environment and the groups existing businesses and technology for technical Ceramics and a flat trading period on a like-for-like basis sales for the europe in an area of differentiated and highly for the thermal Ceramics business.
the region, excluding Composites and Defence demanding insulating products supplied into oil electrical Carbon and Seals and Bearings Systems, have been flat.
the order intake in and gas, aerospace and industrial end-markets.
businesses both delivered improved eBItA europe has been mixed through the year but the integration and development of the margins in 2014 compared to 2013 and this overall marginally positive entering 2015. technology across the group has been very margin improvement should continue into However, macro-conditions remain uncertain successful with its existing north American 2015. the significant rationalisation of the in europe generally and the regions focus will and Asian businesses benefiting from the carbon materials footprint that was announced remain on creating real growth opportunities additional technology and products in their in the second half of 2014 is progressing well based on the markets targeted and the pipeline regional markets.
and will deliver the benefits forecast for these of new business that has been developed in carbon businesses.
the charge for this in 2014 recent years.
Delivery of the benefits from the In terms of portfolio management, in addition is 16.3 million, circa 7.1 million of which is rationalisation of the carbon materials footprint to the acquisition and integration of porextherm, cash, 2.0 million in 2014 and 5.1 million will also be an important area of focus in 2015. the region has successfully exited the uK fired in 2015, for an annualised benefit of circa shapes business and the thermal Ceramics 3 million circa 1 million of benefit in 2015. business in Wissembourg, France.
the C&DS business has continued its strategy and major change programme of focusing on defence and commercial business outside of the traditional uK MoD contracts.
During 2014 the business continued to win some MoD contracts but was unsuccessful in others.
With the significant reduction in MoD business compared to recent years, the group has impaired 26.9 million of goodwill and intangible assets which represent the majority of these intangibles created and relating to the uK MoD as part of the purchase of C&DS during the years 2007 to 2012. the business continues to create new business both in the uK and internationally.
over the next two years this business is expected to have annual revenue in the 30-40 million range.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 40 StrAteGiC rePOrt reVIeW oF operAtIonS continued Business description Footprint ASIA reSt oF WorlD For Morgan Advanced Materials, the Asia rest As at 31 December 2014 the Asia rest of of World region comprises Asia, Australasia, World region comprises 24 operating sites India, Africa, the Middle east, including turkey, employing 2,800 people.
the principal HIgHlIgHtS and South America.
the financials of the manufacturing sites are located in China, Delivered revenue growth of 13% on region comprise those of all the businesses India, South Korea, Australia, Japan, Brazil like-for-like basis and margin increased that are located within those countries, and Argentina.
these manufacturing sites are 180 basis points to 12.8%.
including the sales made directly to and profits supported by a network of sales and application good portfolio management with exit of from third-party customers outside the engineers to ensure that customers are well loss-making lithium ion business in China.
Sales made to Morgan companies supported across this large region with the Significant investment made in capability outside the region are not included in Asia appropriate Morgan resource.
Where and capacity with new manufacturing rest of Worlds reported revenue but the appropriate, use is also made of third-party facilities in China, Middle east and profit made on these inter-regional sales are distributors.
included in Asia rest of Worlds results.
Performance REVENUE the Asia rest of World region offers the revenue for the Asia rest of World region for m full Morgan product range.
the region has the year was 242.9 million, representing an 2014 242.9 significant manufacturing capability and capacity increase of 1.0% compared with 240.6 million for insulating fibre, including Superwool, and in 2013.
However on a continuing and constant 2013 240.6 firebrick and some capacity for electrical brush currency basis the region delivered strong material, however it does source a large revenue growth of 13.0% compared with REGIONAL EBITA amount of material, semi-finished and finished 2013, with all major geographies contributing m products from Morgan businesses in north to this.
America and europe, either finishing locally 2014 31.2 or selling finished products to end customers.
eBItA for the region was 31.2 million 2013 26.4 2013: 26.4 million, a margin of 12.8% As shown in the chart to the left, the Asia rest 2013: 11.0% a significant improvement of World region serves all the groups chosen over 2013.
ASIA REST OF WORLD end-markets.
the majority of revenue in the 2014 % OF REVENUE region is currently from industrial markets, but there is a significant opportunity to drive a positive mix shift through increased sales to markets such as aerospace and healthcare.
Energy 13% Transportation 15% Security and Defence 1% Healthcare 1% Electronics 3% Petrochemical 14% Industrial 53% Definitions of the measures can be found in the Glossary of terms.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 41 Business review Priorities and outlook trading across the region has been strong the order intake for the region has been in 2014 with all major geographies showing positive through the year providing confidence improvement, including China, India, Korea in the outlook as it enters 2015. the recent and the Middle east.
the major end-markets and ongoing investment in capability and in this region energy, transportation, capacity in the region positions the business including marine and aerospace, and general well to take advantage of the growth industrial and petrochemical have all grown.
Furthermore, the good progress has been made in the growth business is well placed to satisfy the expected of western-sourced, technical Ceramics growth in demand in more advanced markets, products for markets such as medical and such as healthcare and aerospace.
Some aerospace and this growth is set to increase early successes have been achieved, but the further in 2015.
An example of this increasing increased delivery of the groups full product presence of the regions technical Ceramics and technology portfolio to the growth businesses in Asia is the agreement signed in countries of the world is a key priority December 2014 with yongda group, China to for 2015 and beyond.
create a Morgan-majority 58:42 joint venture to manufacture ceramic cores used in the investment casting of turbine blades primarily for the Chinese market.
new manufacturing facilities are being built in Abu Dhabi, South Korea and China, all for growth opportunities across the full range of product and technology offerings.
In terms of portfolio management, the region has successfully exited the Chinese lithium ion business.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW
