Chief Executives Operational Review Roger White our franchise energy brand Rockstar.
Our Across the last financial year we still drinks portfolio had a more subdued have continued to make excellent year, growing by 2.7% in overall value terms.
progress in both short term Within this performance, Rubicon stills grew financial performance and also the by 4.0% and the Strathmore water brand development of our longer term grew by over 9%, reflecting the delivery of a plans and actions to ensure the number of business development activities and the positive impact of the warm summer business is fit for the future.
KA stills declined by 3.8% following a very strong prior year Our revenue in the 12 months to 26 January growth.
Overall the KA brand was down 2014 grew by 6.9%, outpacing the wider 1% in the period.
soft drinks market, as measured by Nielsen, continuing A. G. BARRs track record Our Strategy of outperformance in this regard.
It is The objective of our strategy is to create particularly pleasing in this context that value for shareholders through: we grew our volume by 5.0%, which is more than double the market rate.
Core brands and markets: Brand portfolio: Pre tax profit, before exceptional items, Route to market: increased by 9.6% to 38.1m, with Partnerships: operating margins increasing by 0.4% Efficient operations: to 15.1%, reflecting the improvements in People development: and cost of goods, well controlled overheads Sustainability and responsibility.
and positive product sales mix.
The IRN-BRU new sponsorship improvement in our margins has not come at the expense of our continued Our focus on all of the above areas was the official soft drink of the SPFL investment in our brands, where tested across the 2013 14 financial year, IRN-BRU and the Scottish Professional marketing and promotional spend with the impact of the work load and Football League SPFL announced the has further increased year on year.
uncertainty created by the planned merger brand as the Official Soft Drink of the SPFL.
with Britvic plc and associated anti-trust The agreement between A. G. BARR and the Market Performance activity.
The strength of the performance SPFL means that IRN-BRUs long-standing The U. K. soft drinks market has performed ethic across the teams at A. G. BARR and association with the national game relatively strongly across 2013, with the the consistency of our strategy and will continue, having already enjoyed exceptionally hot weather in July and execution enabled us to weather this difficult six years as title sponsor of the Scottish generally warm summer more than making period and emerge stronger.
up for a cold, wet start to the year.
delivered considerable progress across all areas of our business over the last The total soft drinks market grew by 3.8% 12 months, all of which equip us to meet in value terms, with 1.9% of this growth our long term growth and value creation coming from volume.
marginally better than carbonates in value terms and were significantly ahead in Core Brands, Markets and Innovation volume terms, driven by the water sub Delivering growth despite numerous category which performed particularly well.
challenges, year in year out, has been the hallmark of our core brands performance A. G. BARRs overall performance was driven over many years and last year was no by excellent growth in carbonates, which different.
Our core Group brands, IRNgrew by 8.2% in overall value.
This was as a BRU, Rubicon and Barr, together with result of the consistent growth of our core franchise brand Rockstar, delivered carbonate brands IRN-BRU and Barr, with total revenue growth of 8%.
the addition of a strong performance from A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07
