Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Strategic report Performance indicators continued Risk management framework Measure How we performed What affected it 2014 results 2013 results Change Our Risk Assessment and Management Process Our People: Redrow looks to be regarded as an employer of choice in the industry and therefore we monitor our training provision and staff turnover Agree Strategic and Financial Objectives Number of staff leaving as Staff turnover in Increased opportunities 12.0% 12.2% a proportion of total staff the year was broadly within the business stable offsetting pressure of increased mobility in the job market generally Executive Board Establish Principal Risks Number of training days We increased our Increase in employees 2,687 2,952 training days by 10% and continuing focus days days in the year on training Assign Risks to Owners Review by Divisional Management Teams Capital Usage: We monitor how effectively we balance our capital base between debt and equity to optimise returns for our shareholders ROE Profit before tax ROE increased by Increased profitability 12.3% 20.5% Risks Updated by Owners Feedback to Owners before exceptional items 67% on 2013 levels of the Group adjusted for joint ventures as a percentage of the average of opening and closing net assets Executive Board Review Earnings Per Share: Redrow regards growth in Earnings per Share as an important objective for our shareholders Profit attributable EPS increased by Increased profitability of 14.6p 28.3p to ordinary equity 94% on 2013 levels the Group shareholders divided by the weighted average number Audit Committee Sign-off of ordinary shares in issue during the year Positive increase decrease no change Negative increase decrease no change Update Risk Register Update Policies and Procedures Our Risk Management Process Our Risk Assessment Process Following the strategic and financial objectives being set by the Risks are identified in line with the strategic objectives with top Main Board, the key risks are established and aligned to those level risks each having individual owners.
objectives by the Executive Board.
The Divisional management teams review the risks and controls We then go through our risk assessment process in order to illustrated in the Risk Register and provide feedback to the risk update the Risk Register.
owners for their formal annual review.
Once the Risk Register has been updated and approved by the The risks are scored on their impact and probability, and controls Audit Committee, the updated risks are embedded in our policies are categorised as either a prevent control or a detect control.
and procedures, monthly management meetings and weekly A strong mix of these controls ensures the Company has operational meetings.
the ability to manage the risks to the business effectively.
In the case of certain risks, we take the opportunity to transfer The risks within the register are then reviewed by the Audit the risk contractually or through the insurance markets.
Committee to ensure they are appropriate to our business.
32 33 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Risk Owner Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Risk Risk Owner Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Our Market Our Capabilities continued Group Chief Close monitoring of, and proactive management Group Design Design is an integral element of our business.
Housing Market Conditions Appropriateness of product Executive response to, key indicators of the housing market.
& Technical The conditions within the UK The failure to design and build a We regularly review our product, design and mix on Director housing market are fundamental desirable product for our customers Regional spread of operations diversifies risk to developments to ensure it is appropriate for the market.
to Redrows business performance at the appropriate price may local markets.
Improved customer engagement through the undermine Redrows ability Group Finance Proactively engage with Government, lenders and insurers Availability of My Redrow section of our website to support our to fulfil its business objectives Director to support the new and second hand housing market.
customers when purchasing their new homes.
Mortgage Finance Lending criteria and deposit Support Government initiatives including Help to Buy The introduction of the Abode Collection.
requirements for mortgages and Help to Buy Mortgage Guarantee.
IT Director Proactive management of software security updates.
Cyber security remain key issues in the New business process for our Sales Teams introduced Failure of the Groups IT systems current environment External audit carrying out penetration testing.
during the year, including the introduction of web and the security of our internal Complete backup and disaster recovery strategy.
portals for partners and supporting the changes systems, data and our websites following the Mortgage Market Review.
Liquidity and funding Group Finance Bank facilities with appropriate covenants and headroom.
Robust, timely and accurate reporting.
Director The Group requires appropriate Capital structure regularly reviewed.
Our Relationships facilities for its short term liquidity Regular contact and communication with investors and and long term funding needs Group Health Dedicated Health and Safety team operates across the Health and Safety relationship banks.
& Safety Group to ensure appropriate standards are applied.
environment Regular preparation of strategic plans.
Director A significant Health and Safety or Regular site inspections and audits.
environmental incident may put Our Capabilities All staff receive appropriate training through in-house people, the environment and and external programmes.
Research & Ensure close community engagement in design and planning.
Sustainability Redrows reputation at risk Sustainability The need for a holistic and Suite of management information.
Ensure high quality design to deliver sustainable Director sustainable approach to our communities.
Health and Safety training for our subcontractor partners.
business is fundamental to the Minimise and mitigate any adverse social or Commercial Use suppliers, main contractors and subcontractors with Groups future performance Key supplier, main contractor environmental impacts of our activities.
Director strong track record and reputation.
or subcontractor failure The failure or inability to expand Commit to sustainability targets in procurement, Close monitoring of supplier, main contractor and capacity of a key supplier, main construction, the performance of our products and subcontractor quality and performance through contractor or subcontractor may carbon emissions, monitored and steered by our annual assessments.
disrupt Redrows ability to manage Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Monitoring of new product innovation in the its production process in an Close monitoring of development in building science market place.
efficient and cost effective way and innovation.
Training for our Construction teams on how we work Attracting and retaining staff Human National training centre.
The loss of key staff and our failure Resources Remuneration strategy regularly reviewed.
Group Clearly defined strategy and long term focus on Land procurement Director to attract high quality employees Personal Development Programmes.
The ability to purchase land may inhibit Redrows ability to Director suitable for our products and the achieve its business objectives Close monitoring of market conditions by experienced Graduate training and undergraduate placement timing of future land purchases programmes.
are fundamental to the Groups Apprentice training programme including Strong, experienced and knowledgeable land, planning future performance office apprentices.
Group Close monitoring of planning environment by Enhanced careers website.
Planning and regulatory Development experienced management team.
environment Succession planning Director The ability to respond and adapt to Local knowledge of Divisional planning and technical teams.
Finance Systems, policies and procedures designed to segregate Fraud uninsured losses changing planning and regulatory Well prepared, high quality planning submissions addressing A significant fraud or uninsured Director duties and minimise opportunity for fraud.
environment is key to Redrows local concerns and demonstrating good design.
Operations loss could damage the financial Regular Business Process Reviews.
future business performance performance of the business We hold public consultation meetings to share our Timely management reporting and challenge.
vision with the community and address local issues.
Increased risk No change in risk Decreased risk 34 35 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Sustainability Barton Park, Northants 36 37 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Sustainability Progress towards targets A year of progress towards our Vision Our Reporting and Progress Public Open Space Our Aspirations 2018 Action Plan sets out how we aim to As well as nearly doubling the amount of public open space we In this, our first year since setting Design grow sustainably as a business, focusing on non-financial have created since 2013, we are also focused on ensuring that out our Aspirations 2018 Action performance across our value-chain.
these spaces are designed to the highest standards to enhance The design of our homes and developments the quality of life of our customers and the local communities.
Plan, we have made good progress We have set objectives and targets to help us achieve this can have a profound effect on peoples lives: Design considerations include: safe pedestrian and cycle routes growth under the five areas of Design, Customers, Community, linking amenities: play areas for children and teenagers: spaces to to deliver our targets.
impacting on health and well-being, security People and Environment.
encourage biodiversity and community spaces including seating, and their sense of community and place.
We have made good progress across all of these areas fit-trails and public art.
Good design can help people to reduce the which will be strengthened in the coming year as we focus 2014 highlights Heat Loss from Homes impacts of their day-to-day activities.
on improving sustainability communications and delivering Work to increase the energy efficiency of our products has training for the whole workforce.
We are working to ensure continued as we focus on improving construction details to greater transparency and are progressively increasing the level minimise heat loss and improve air-tightness.
For our customers this of independent assurance provided across all aspects of our Design Progress means potential for an additional 10% saving in hot water, heating sustainability reporting.
towards Further reduced heat loss from our homes and lighting bills over homes built to our 2010 specification.
2018 2018 Increase in number of homes with renewable Objective 2013 2014 target target technologies Public open space 60 110 Continual Key achievement Comparative designed running costs for a Heritage created hectares hectares Investment Collection Warwick house type year Contribution to local communities Heat loss from 53% better 54% better 66% better home than 1970s than 1970s than 1970s increased 182% to 112.8m Lighting Customers Pumps and fans % of homes 16% 23% 75% Water heating Retained HBF 5 Star customer satisfaction rating incorporating Materiality Space heating Comprehensive customer care review underway renewable We consider our significant issues to be: Standing charge technologies Climate change risk and energy Reduce water 105 105 80 Environmental incidents usage litres head day Biodiversity impacts Developing sustainable communities Community Homes including 25% 47% 75% domestic Increased our contributions to local communities Product life cycle recycling facilities Increase in homes within 500m of public Customer engagement transport node Homes fitted with 82% 67% 100% 2006 2010 2014 Supply chain standards smart meters In 2015 we will be engaging with our key stakeholders to Renewable Technologies Business Level 2 Level 2 Level 3 further assess materiality.
We adopt the fabric first principles of energy efficiency design Information for our homes and design and model our construction details Management BIM to minimise heat loss.
However we also incorporate renewable People development Risk Management technologies where appropriate in our drive towards zero carbon Expanded our Sustainability team The future performance of the Group depends on incorporating homes.
This year we installed renewable heat or electricity Developing sustainability awareness training sustainability throughout our operations.
We continue to identify generation technologies in 802 homes, representing 23% of programme Our Plans for 2015 and assess risks facing the business and seek to mitigate them and our total build 2013: 16%.
The technologies represented were Increased our trainee and graduate intake create positive opportunities.
Read more on pages 34 and 35. Review of customer care service and process to as follows: include more focus on design and functionality of both the home itself and the other aspects Solar PV 46% Sustainable Development Charter for Wales Solar thermal 3% of sustainable design Air Source Heat Pump 10% Continue to work with our service connection CHP 41% Environment providers to resolve specification issues with Reduced carbon emissions relative to build smart meters Achieved Environmental Management System Work with our suppliers to develop a more EMS external accreditation Redrow has become the first major housebuilder to sign up advanced domestic water service design to to the Sustainable Development Charter for Wales.
Made further advances in sourcing of meet our water saving target responsible timber We are proud to be a signatory to the Charter and we look forward to working with other participants through the year to share our expertise to develop problem solving solutions in this challenging arena.
38 39 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Sustainability continued Progress towards targets Water Usage in the Home Training for Sales Staff The standard design of our domestic water installations at 105 Its vital that our customers understand how to get the best Customers Community  already provides performance ahead of from the renewables installed in their new home.
Our sales building regulation requirements.
To meet our ambitious target, teams play a key role in communicating the benefits, use and As well as maintaining our high standards of We are proud of the positive contributions we are working to further advance the specification whilst still maintenance of these technologies and this year we have begun customer service and satisfaction, we are we made by providing local economic meeting our customers everyday water needs.
a programme of hands-on training with our sales staff in broadening engagement with our customers partnership with our renewables suppliers to enable them to development opportunities and encouraging gain a deeper understanding of these products.
to focus on sustainability issues.
This is establishment of sustainable communities.
Strategy in action: Kingston River Walk important as the way our customers live in their new Redrow home is one of the key Progress areas of impact from our industry.
towards 2018 2018 Objective 2013 2014 target target Monies 40m 112.8m Continued Progress towards committed to investment 2018 2018 fund the in local Objective 2013 2014 target target improvement communities of local Independent 5 stars 5 stars 5 stars communities customer Sales staff undertaking training in renewable technologies satisfaction Community 102 110 Increased HBF rating consultation engagement events % of our 93% 93% 95% Further Actions customers Considerate 34.25 34.54 35 recommending Customer Care Review Constructors us to a friend per We are continually striving to take our customer service average score NHBC research to a higher level and truly engage with our consumers.
Homes within c. 80% 95% 90% Working with The Future Customer, a consultancy which 500m of public coaches and inspires businesses to fulfil their promises to Our Plans for 2015 transport node customers, we have looked at all of our interactions with Develop marketing materials highlighting our homebuyers and considered how we can make their sustainable design features to our customers purchase as smooth and effective as possible.
The ground breaking community heating system Our Plans for 2015 Deliver sustainability training with all sales at Kingston River Walk is the first such river-based We have simplified our customer care process and intend Partner with a non-governmental organisation teams renewable energy installation in the UK.
to introduce earlier engagement with customers.
This will to undertake an in-depth assessment of the include demonstration and welcome evenings held at our Re-design of post-occupancy survey to engage wider economic benefit to the community Water is drawn from two metres below the developments, designed to help customers get the best more meaningfully with customers provided by a typical development surface of the Thames, where a temperature of from their new home and enabling them to meet their Including sustainability issues in customer between 8 C 10 C is maintained all year.
future neighbours in a relaxed environment, so taking Monitor progress of proposed withdrawal of post-occupancy survey the first steps in building a true sense of community.
the Code for Sustainable Homes and evaluate The filtered water is passed through high alternative methods of demonstrating the We are introducing an improved post-occupancy survey efficiency heat exchangers where the low grade holistic value of sustainable development 5 Star Customer Satisfaction several months after they move in which will consider: heat is harvested, before being discharged back We have retained our 5 star HBF Customer Care rating for quality of build: community: lifestyle and design issues.
into the river with negligible effect on the the fourth year running with 93% of our customers happy to The results will then inform everything from our land temperature of the water.
This feedback demonstrates that buying to design, use of technology, etc.
Funds to Improve Local Communities we have built a solid reputation as a quality builder with a As part of the planning process and delivery of new homes, we This heat is then captured in a closed water Customer Research commitment to delivering high standards of customer care.
contribute significant value to the communities local to our sites Allied to the customer care review, we have recently system which links to 41 heat pumps, which through a range of material or financial initiatives.
embarked on a detailed academic research project to increase the heat to about 45 C before passing it This year the monetary value of these contributions totalled examine the attitudes and perceptions of our potential to the apartments where it is used for domestic 112.8m, a significant increase over last year 40m, reflecting the customers with respect to sustainability issues.
The research hot water and underfloor heating.
increase in construction and including delivery of 96m of social or will cover a range of sustainability issues relating to the affordable housing.
The latter ensures that our developments are design and efficiency of the home, as well as the wider The system will provide over 2MW of thermal socially inclusive and makes a significant contribution to the development and community, and will be completed by energy for the development and is expected to countrys well chronicled need for more affordable homes.
the end of 2014. reduce utility bills by 20%.
Additionally, it has Recognising that the homes we build create additional demand for Additionally, we are assisting another academic research been calculated that the system will prevent the local resources, including schools, healthcare and opportunities for project examining how housebuilders currently gather feedback sport and leisure, significant sums are also invested in these areas.
emission of over 500 tonnes of carbon dioxide per from their dwellings once in use and how they then take this year, which would have resulted from traditional information forward to positively influence the design, community boiler installations.
performance and specification of future housing developments.
40 41 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Sustainability continued Progress towards targets for the number of homes we build within 500m of a public Community Consultation and Engagement Trainees as Percentage of Workforce transport node such as a bus, tram or train station.
Public consultation events remain important.
There has been Growing the percentage of trainees across our business remains People a small increase in consultations undertaken in the year.
on target and we are confident that we have one of the In addition we have built 484 homes which have access to car housebuilding sectors best employee to trainee apprentice ratios.
clubs and 1,294 homes which include cycle stores.
Many of our Our performance is entirely dependent on the Considerate Constructors Scheme developments also include footpaths and cycleways linking into We continue to invest heavily in the development of trade skills.
During the year, 39 2013: 33 sites participated in the qualities and abilities of our employees and we wider networks, making it easier for residents to access local Working in partnership with the Construction Industry Training Considerate Constructors Scheme, developed to encourage best invest heavily in their development and training.
amenities without using their cars.
Board CITB we currently employ 76 apprentices on sites across practice in reducing the impact of our activities on the general We are proud of our success in attracting talented the Group.
public, the workforce and the environment.
young staff into the industry, as this is critical to We also continue to use the transitional role of Trainee Site During the independent site inspections made this year our providing a skills base for the future.
Assistant to provide successful apprentices and semi-skilled site developments averaged a score of 34.54 : however, 10 of our employees with a route into management.
sites scored 30 or more, seven sites scored 35 or over and two of our sites in Kent Davington Park, in Faversham and St Andrews Progress Undergraduates are also welcomed into our business with eight towards Park, Halling scored 40 or more.
Our Davington Park young people being given the opportunity to complete their 2018 2018 development went on to win a Silver award at the Considerate Objective 2013 2014 target target year out with us this summer.
Further Actions Trainees as % of 14% 15% 18% Our newest programme is a commercial apprenticeship scheme, Scores of: workforce Sustainable Development Charter 25 demonstrates compliance designed in conjunction with the Chartered Surveyors Trust and 30 demonstrates good standard In its One Wales: One Planet strategy, the Welsh Coleg Cambria.
Ten school leavers will join this autumn across 35 demonstrates very good standard Training days 2,687 2,952 Increase Government sets out ways to promote sustainability in its our divisions and start a two-year higher apprenticeship studying 40 demonstrates excellent standard delivered training per activities and long term planning.
This was followed by the on a block release basis.
Successful candidates will be able to head Transport launch of the Sustainable Development Charter which aims progress up to a RICS accredited degree, all supported by Redrow.
We can help enable our customers to achieve a healthier to promote sustainable learning and good practice through Graduate 19 22 Increase in Training Days Delivered lifestyle, use their cars less and reduce their personal carbon programme line with shared experience and collaboration to improve the We have an in-house team of qualified trainers, supported by intake growth footprints.
We have already achieved our Aspirations 2018 target economic, social and environmental well-being of Wales.
external providers, delivering training programmes to all staff.
Workforce 15% 15% Maintain We look forward to engaging with the principles of the We have invested heavily over the last year in an e-learning under 25 Increase % Charter over the forthcoming year and sharing experience platform to enable us to offer blended training solutions to staff with other business signatories.
across all our divisions and developments.
Total workforce 1,115 1,346 Maintain headcount We have an increasing focus on externally accredited courses growth which give our employees recognised qualifications, including an extensive range of NVQs and the Institute of Leadership and Health & Safety RoSPA Gold Not eligible Progressive Management ILM.
RoSPA Award eighth year this year improvement During the year, 26 employees have achieved an NVQ, excluding Accident 456 578 Below HSEs apprentices, and we currently have 43 employees working Incident Rate AIR for towards an NVQ qualification.
AIR Construction Health & Safety see note in Health & Safety section excludes undergraduates Sadly there was a fatal accident at a Redrow development last year involving one of our subcontractors.
At the time of reporting the circumstances are still under investigation by the Our Plans for 2015 Health and Safety Executive.
Our condolences and support have Delivery of ambitious sustainability training been offered to the victims family.
programme, involving all staff Due to this fatality we are not permitted to enter for any RoSPA Roll-out of e-learning platform for all staff Awards until conclusion of the investigation.
Continued focus on trainees and apprentices As you would expect, the majority of our reportable accidents take place on site.
We hold regular health and safety training courses on all our sites for our own personnel and subcontractors.
It is therefore pleasing to report that in 2014 our reportable accidents by site reduced from 0.34 to 0.32 despite the higher activity levels across all our sites.
We did have a small number of office based reportable accidents in the year 7, following a remarkable 2013 when we had none.
One prohibition notice was received during the reporting period.
This notice was issued in relation to traffic management and pedestrian segregation.
We have changed our core health and safety training criteria for site managers from an internal training programme to the Cycleway created at Aurora Springs, Bristol 42 43 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Sustainability continued Progress towards targets industry accredited CITB Site Management Safety Training This year we have started working with our suppliers to ascertain Scheme.
This five-day training programme is deemed the the emissions associated with the production and transport of Environment construction industry standard for site management.
materials used in our homes, along with movement of waste from our sites.
Two Redrow Site Managers secured awards in this years Housebuilding has the potential to National House-Building Council NHBC Health and Safety Site Water Consumption significantly impact on the environment: this Awards.
Redrow Lancashire site manager Stuart Bullough picked We are pleased to report that our consumption of water on site, year we have strengthened our focus in this up Redrows first ever Highly Commended health and safety per unit, has decreased this year due to improved management.
area to include externally accredited systems, award: while Redrow South East site manager Mike Tynan We are currently developing our monitoring and reporting secured a commendation for his development at St Andrews procedures to further improve data capture in this area, which tighter checking and compliance standards, Park in Halling, Kent.
will be used to set specific, quantitative targets for 2015. as well as planned training for all staff.
We continue to support our contractors in improving their health Responsibly Sourced Timber and safety knowledge and performance and have organised We continue to work with our supply chain to draw closer to our numerous events this year to assist our contractors.
objective of completely eliminating timber from unaccredited Progress towards Balancing ponds at Earls Park, Worcester sources in our homes.
This includes all timber and timber products The Health and Safety Team continues to carry out safety talks 2018 2018 provided by our suppliers and or used by our subcontractors that at primary schools in close proximity to our developments.
Objective 2013 2014 target target Waste Minimisation and Management are incorporated within completed dwellings built by Redrow.
During the year over 1,000 children attended these important Total waste 4.7 tonnes 3.7 tonnes NEW Our improved design, procurement and site practices have presentations.
2 2 We are proud to report that 2014 saw further improvement in this produced per per 100m per 100m TARGET resulted in a reduction in our site waste for 2014: down to 2 1 100m of build area with 42.05% of timber used on our sites being classified as 2 Details of our gender diversity can be found on pages 51 and 53.
4.7 tonnes 100m of developed floor area 2013: 8.21 Source Verified, e. g. Programme for the Endorsement of Forest 2 tonnes 100m.
Additionally, we have further improved our Waste diverted 93% 93.6% 95% Certification PEFC purchased with Chain of Custody: and 57.5% from landfill diversion of site waste from landfill to achieve 93.6% diversion Further Actions Credibly Certified, e. g. Forestry Stewardship Council purchased this year.
with Chain of Custody Chain of Custody being a mechanism for Scope 1 and 2 3.42 tonnes 2.88 10% T unit tracking certified materials from the forest to final production.
We are also working with our suppliers to examine ways we 3 carbon CO unit tonnes reduction 2 can reduce packaging waste whilst still providing adequate 2 Challenges remain and we continue to work with our supply emissions CO e unit 2 protection for products and materials.
We are trialling on-site chain to ensure current purchasing policy is adhered to and baling to improve the way we deal with any such waste that Scope 1 and 2 3.06 tonnes 2.64 10% NEW procurement levels are maintained.
We are continually reviewing 2 remains on site.
carbon CO2e 100m tonnes reduction TARGET high risk products, in particular 2 emissions CO2e 100m A further initiative for 2015 will involve detailed analysis of plywood, to investigate how to 3 3 3 waste generated over a number of trial sites within the company.
eradicate timber procured with no Site water 19.2m unit 18.38m Reduce m The investigation will look at the contributing materials and information on origin.
We are consumption unit per unit trades and, by informing design and process, will seek to committed to ensuring that all new 3 3 3 Site water 17.24m 16.89m Reduce m NEW eliminate the volume of waste generated at source.
subcontractors and suppliers maintain 2 2 2 consumption 100m 100m per 100m TARGET Redrows aims and targets.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Tonnes CO e 2 Divisional office 80% 80% 100% Sustainable Construction Training energy audits This year we have commenced delivery of a comprehensive Scope 1 Green Teams sustainability training plan involving staff from all parts of the Responsibly 99.53% 99.55% 100% Scope 2 This year, each of our divisional offices along with Group business.
A significant part of this plan is focused on sustainable sourced timber HQ has formed Green Teams, who are working to measure construction and a series of training courses have been designed and monitor our environmental impacts and to deliver to engage and develop our build teams in this important area, % of build c. 90% 96% 95% projects that will help reduce energy, water and waste.
including the CITBs Site Environmental Awareness Training course.
materials locally They are also examining ways to improve purchasing sourced and travel options, as well as improving the landscape Further Actions % of subcontract c. 90% 89% 95% and biodiversity surrounding our offices.
labour employed The teams comprise people from all departments, and are Environmental Management System EMS locally key in helping to raise awareness of environmental issues Accreditation 1 Figure excludes London Division and improvements to their colleagues, encouraging them This year we took the decision to move to an externally 2 Please note change of unit from CO2to CO2e for this target to be more sustainable at work and at home.
3 Re-calculated figure accredited EMS which not only improves management of our significant environmental impacts, but also 2013 2014 Our Plans for 2015 demonstrates our commitment to our key stakeholders.
Continue our sustainable construction training We are pleased to report that following an external audit in See page 78 for carbon disclosure figures.
programme June, which examined our policies and procedures as well as Our total Scope 1 and 2 C0 e has increased slightly to 10,010 2 Develop data capture for Scope 3 indirect site practice, we have been awarded Phase 2 certification 2013: 9,657.
However relative to build our CO e emissions have 2 carbon emissions of BS8555.
Develop and continue partnerships focused on We will now work to develop and further embed this system We continue to report our carbon footprint to the Carbon biodiversity to ensure maximum benefit from the process and to drive Disclosure Project on an annual basis and remain focused on continual improvement.
driving down the emissions from all parts of the business.
44 45 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 7,118 2,539 7,240 2,770 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Governance report The Limes at Horsforth Vale, Yorkshire 46 46 47 47 R Redr edrow plc ow plc R Redr edrow plc ow plc Ann Annual r ual repor eport and ac t and accounts 2014 counts 2014 Ann Annual r ual repor eport and ac t and accounts 2014 counts 2014
