18 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Review of Operations A clear strategy to deliver growth The Group is in robust shape with strong brands and an excellent management team.
Our objective over the coming years is to build on the firm foundations that are in place.
Danny Breithaupt Chief Executive Officer 19 500k new Frankie & raised for charity Bennys restaurants in 2014 opened this year More than 1,300 new jobs created in 2014 2.8% 8 new Chiquito increase in restaurants opened this year like-for-like sales Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 19 Introduction Our brands The Group is in robust shape with strong brands and an Frankie & Bennys 247 units excellent management team.
Our objective over the coming Frankie & Bennys traded well during the year with growth in years is to build on the firm foundations that are in place.
During the year we introduced a number The Groups strategy will continue to be focused on building of menu initiatives, notably the introduction of a chicken like-for-like sales and the disciplined roll out of new sites.
section on the menu which has proved to be hugely We intend to accelerate and broaden the expansion successful.
We also took further steps to strengthen the programme, as described in more detail later in this report.
management team as the brand continues its rapid rate of growth.
During the year we opened 19 new restaurants, TRG has an excellent track record of delivering consistent reaching a total of almost 250, an increase of some 20% in year on year growth in cash flows and profit, combined with the size of the estate in the last three years.
As in previous high returns on investment, and this will continue to be our years these are in a range of different locations including new focus.
Building on the solid growth that has been achieved developments, the extension of existing schemes and the over the past decade, TRG delivered another year of conversion of units from other operators.
Trading at our new profitable progress in 2014 with growth in sales, profits and openings has been strong and they are set to deliver excellent cash flow as described in more detail in the financial review.
We anticipate opening between 14 and 18 new Frankie & Bennys in 2015.
The strength of the Frankie & Our people and our business Bennys brand, its breadth of appeal, high levels of customer TRG is a people business.
We employ more than recognition and strong family appeal all contribute to a 15,000 people throughout the UK and during 2014 more consistent track record of success.
This gives us great than 1,300 new team members joined the Group.
Our people confidence about the continuing success and further roll and the culture within the Company are crucial factors in out of this brand.
the continuing success of TRG.
We are therefore putting in place a number of initiatives to make further improvements Chiquito 80 units in this area, such as our Proud to be TRG and recently Chiquito had an excellent year with strong growth in turnover announced Family Matters employee engagement initiatives.
Several years ago we made some significant management changes in this brand.
This has been Throughout the Group we aim to continually evolve and supplemented in the last 18 months by an evolution of both improve our offering in terms of food, service standards the fit out and the menu.
The strong improvement in financial and facilities.
Menus in all of our brands are reviewed on performance is clear testament to the success of these a regular basis to take account of evolving trends.
We also initiatives and we are now confident in increasing the rate aim to ensure that all of our menus have healthy options and of openings in Chiquito.
During 2014 we opened eight new to ensure we have something to match all of our customers restaurants compared to four in the previous year.
As part of our ongoing health and safety trading superbly and are set to deliver strong returns.
In 2015 assurance processes we regularly conduct testing of we expect to open between eight and ten new Chiquito ingredients and facilities at our suppliers.
Most of our Chiquito restaurants are co-located with Frankie & Bennys, either as part of a new development The Group has an active programme of supporting charities or as a new site on a scheme where we already successfully with which we are proud to be involved.
During 2014 the trade with the Frankie & Bennys brand.
We are excited about key charities we supported were Leukaemia and Lymphoma the prospects for Chiquito and are confident that this is a Research, Childrens Hospital Association Scotland style of cuisine which is becoming more mainstream and and Caudwell Children.
During the year we raised over familiar across the UK.
500,000 for these and other charities.
In 2015 we are partnering with Rays of Sunshine, a charity for children with life limiting illnesses.
20 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Review of Operations continued Coast to Coast 13 units Concessions 58 units Coast to Coast also had an excellent year financially with Concessions had another really strong year with good growth substantial increases in turnover and profit.
Following its in turnover and profits.
We have a strong market position in launch at the end of 2011 in Brighton, Coast to Coast is now most of the leading UK airports.
During the year we opened a well established and successful part of the Groups portfolio seven new sites, including taking over all of the catering of brands.
Most of our Coast to Coast restaurants are operations at Southampton Airport and opening the very co-located with Frankie & Bennys and in a number of cases successful Wondertree restaurant in the new Heathrow both Frankie & Bennys and Chiquito.
It has a distinct market Terminal 2.
We are delighted with the performance of our position and as a result we see negligible levels of new openings this year all of which are set to deliver strong cannibalisation in such co-located situations.
In 2015 we expect to open between five and seven strategy for Coast to Coast tends to be on leisure and retail outlets in our Concessions business.
This includes three schemes in larger markets.
We are also confident that the outlets in the re-developed Stansted airport, including the brand can work well in some UK city centre locations, first Coast to Coast in an airport, as described earlier.
following the successful Birmingham Broad Street opening at the end of 2013.
During the year we opened three Coast TRG business model and strategy to Coast restaurants all of which are performing well and set Our core objective is to grow shareholder value by building to deliver strong returns.
In 2015 we expect to open between a business capable of delivering long-term sustainable and seven and ten Coast to Coast restaurants.
We are also growing cash flows.
We do this by providing great food, drink delighted to have secured our first Coast to Coast restaurant and service in well-appointed restaurants and pubs.
Within in an airport environment as part of the major redevelopment the eating out market we focus on sectors where there are at Stansted, which will open during the first half of the year.
barriers to entry, good growth prospects and strong returns.
Our growth model is primarily based on organic roll out of Garfunkels 15 units new sites.
While most such sites are leasehold, we also Garfunkels is a good business generating significant cash acquire freehold premises where these give a satisfactory flows and excellent returns on investment.
As other parts of level of return.
Although not a core part of our development the Group continue to grow rapidly, Garfunkels is becoming plans, we remain open to evaluating acquisitions of existing a smaller proportion of the total.
We do not have any specific businesses where there is a clear strategic rationale and roll out strategy for Garfunkels, but will consider new sites on where this would enhance shareholder value.
Our business model is to grow through a combination of Pub restaurants 52 units like-for-like sales growth and new site development.
The Our Pub restaurant business had a very strong year with profits from this growth are converted into cash at a healthy substantial increases in turnover and profits.
The Pub rate, which we use to maintain our existing estate in good business is focused on delivering exceptional food and drink order, pay dividends and invest in more new sites generating in attractive buildings and locations and as a result has won high levels of return.
This has proven to be a very successful a number of national and regional awards including the 2015 and value-accretive business model which has enabled the Good Pub Guide, Best Town Pub of the Year awarded to the Group to grow in a predominately organic way funded Old Harkers Arms in Chester.
principally by internally generated cash flows.
This model delivers high returns, growth and income for shareholders During the year we opened three new pubs, all of which are in the form of dividends.
performing well and are set to deliver strong returns.
In 2015 we expect to open between three and five new pubs.
Our Key to achieving all of this is that we continue to provide great Pub business has the potential to grow over the medium-term service and food in our restaurants, and evolve our brands to be a substantial business as a nationwide operator of high and offerings in line with changing consumer trends.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 21 Future prospects Since 2008, in line with most consumer-facing businesses, TRG has faced challenging trading conditions.
As is well documented, real incomes have been in decline for most of this period but notwithstanding this TRG has continued to grow sales, profits and cash flows every year.
We have also continued to roll out new sites at an accelerating rate, as well as investing in our existing portfolio.
In the last two years we have had to contend with disappointing film release schedules and associated reductions in UK cinema admissions.
Looking forward, there are a number of external factors which should be much more positive for the business.
In recent months, the UK has at last started to see an increase in real consumer incomes.
In addition, both 2015 and 2016 have much stronger film release schedules than we have seen in the last two years and this is expected to generate growth in cinema admissions levels.
Combined with an accelerating rate of new site openings, this augurs well for the future prospects of the Group.
In order to capitalise on these improving trends we will continue to: stick to our areas of expertise focus on our customers by providing excellent value, choice and service maintain high standards of operational efficiency and execution add high quality new restaurants that meet our investment criteria.
