20 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Operating review The Group delivered a strong performance in an economic environment which remained subdued for most of the year, before seeing a slight improvement in the second half.
I am very pleased with the progress we achieved in the implementation of our Vision 2020 strategy, providing the Group with further platforms for profitable growth in the USA, Asia and south east Europe.
The financial year 2014 15 has started in line with managements expectations.
P R M Vervaat Chief Executive Group Overview Implementation of Vision 2020: Selective consolidation in Europe FocusedGrowth Strategy The Group made two acquisitions in the year RPC is a leading supplier of rigid plastic packaging which consolidate and strengthen its market with operations in 19 countries.
The business, The Vision 2020 strategy focuses on achieving positions in Europe.
which at the end of the financial year comprised profitable growth through organic initiatives, 49 manufacturing sites and six separate selectively consolidating the European market Maynard & Harris Group M&H Plastics, with distribution and sales centres, converts polymer through targeted acquisitions and establishing an annual turnover of circa 80m and over 700 granules into nished packaging product by a a meaningful presence outside Europe, whilst employees, is a well-established and highly combination of moulding and assembly processes.
keeping through the economic cycle the RONOA respected business operating in the Groups core It is currently organised around the three main for the Group above 20% and the return on sales geographic and product markets and complements conversion processes used within the Group, each above 8%.
The Group made significant progress the Groups existing market positions very well.
site being managed within one of six clusters during the year in implementing this strategy.
With its principal manufacturing site in Beccles, which are dened along technological and UK, it operates as an independent business within Continued focused organic growth market lines.
RPCs Bramlage cluster and enhances the Groups The Group was able to achieve further growth in leading personal care product offering in the UK, With effect from 2 June 2014, the date on which the selected markets it operates in by continuing mainland Europe and the USA.
It extends the the Group acquired Ace Corporation Holdings, to invest in product and process innovation, Groups product ranges to include exible tubes a new cluster was formed, Ace, which will be particularly in sectors for higher added value and an industry-leading range of personal care reported within the Injection Moulding business products and in developing technologies which packaging for short production runs as well as segment from 2014 15. generate growth by accelerating the ongoing over-the-counter healthcare container designs.
conversion of other packaging types to plastic.
Each cluster operates across a wide geographical Pre-tax purchasing synergies of at least 1m are Sales grew in the year by 4% excluding the area for reasons of customer proximity, local expected to be realised in 2014 15 with additional impact of acquisitions, with overall activity market demand and manufacturing resource.
commercial and working capital synergies to be levels higher than in the previous year but with Each plant is run autonomously, commensurate achieved going forward.
proportionately higher levels of sales made in with maintaining overall financial control and personal care, pharmaceuticals, single serve effective coordination in each market sector.
beverage systems and high barrier foods, all of Hence each cluster and most operating sites which enhance profitability.
The Group invested have a separate management team headed the majority of its 70m capital expenditure in the by a cluster or general manager.
This structure year on growth projects which will contribute to encourages focus on business issues and delivers the future profitability of the existing businesses.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Conversion process Cluster Markets Injection Moulding Superfos Food, soups & sauces, margarine & spreads, paints, DIY products Bramlage-Wiko Personal care, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, food, coffee capsules UKIM Food, soups & sauces, margarine & spreads, paints, DIY products, promotional products, pharmaceuticals Thermoforming Bebo Margarine & spreads, fresh, frozen and longshelf-life foods, coffee capsules, dairymarket, disposable products, vending & drinking cups Cobelplast Phone cards, long shelf-life foods and sheetfor form-ll-seal lines Blow Moulding Blow Moulding Personal care, lubricants, agrochemicals, food & drink, long shelf-life foods See pages 6-7 Helioplast, based in Bosnia-Herzegovina, and On 2 June 2014 the Group completed the 2014 Revenue m generating circa 7m of annual sales, is a acquisition of Ace Corporation Holdings, a China leading supplier of injection moulded rigid plastic based and Hong Kong headquartered awardpackaging within consumer food segments, winning manufacturer of complex plastic injection serving the Balkans and the wider south eastern moulded components and injection moulding 1,047m European region.
It employs around 80 people tools for the packaging, lifestyle, medical, power 2013: 982m and forms part of the Superfos cluster, extending and automotive end markets.
Operating from five the clusters geographic reach into the Balkan factories in China and with an annual turnover region whilst providing a modern, high quality of around 104m, this is the Groups first major manufacturing base to support its own sales acquisition outside Europe.
It provides a strong Higher added value sales growth into south eastern Europe.
platform to support RPCs international customer base with high quality packaging of European Creating a meaningful presence outside standards in China, as well as the benefit from of Europe the high and sustained growth of this profitable 33% of revenue The Group commenced an investment programme niche manufacturer of injection moulded parts of US$9m during the year in expanding its facility and moulds.
at Morgantown, PA, USA to accommodate Fitter for the Future additional capacity for the growth in spreads and single-serve beverage systems and provide Fitter for the Future is a business improvement in-house manufacturing capability for Superfos programme, which is centred on rationalising to grow business in North America.
In addition RPCs European manufacturing footprint, the acquisition of M&H Plastics brought with optimising its existing business portfolio and it a manufacturing facility in Winchester, VA, realising value for the Group by disposing of its USA, which is growing and being developed to non-core businesses and redundant properties.
replicate the M&H business model in the UK.
Phase one of the programme was launched in Together these sites have created a stronger 2012: it has now entered its final phase and platform for the Group to grow in the USA, should be largely complete by the end of 2015. with total enlarged Group USA turnover of Activities under the three main work streams are: circaUS$85mp.
a. Rationalise manufacturing footprint: this includes the closure of sites at Antwerp and Beuningen with transfer of business to more efficient sites as part of a pan-European restructuring of the 22 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Operating review continued injection moulding and thermoforming spreads and Montonate were put up for sale, with the levels, did not experience the volatility in price businesses, the closure of the Troyes site as part sales process well advanced by the year end.
movements that had been experienced over the of the consolidation of the French dairy business The Offenburg business was sold in May 2014 last few years.
These changes are passed on to and the closure of Tenhult, with its business and three of the surplus properties Goor, Raunds our customers usually with a time lag which can merged into the nearby Mullsj plant.
and Runcorn were sold in the financial year, with result in an impact on margins: however due to the property at Beuningen now marketed and the lower volatility of polymer price changes over Optimise existing business portfolio: this includes available for sale.
the year the impact of the time lag associated a cost reduction and product rationalisation with passing on these costs had little impact on programme in the UK paint containers business, a The total investment in this programme, which the results for the year.
strategic review of the blow moulding businesses includes non-cash impairments, is expected to be including a strategic refocus of its Spanish around 70m, of which 58m has been incurred The ROCE performance of the Group excluding operations, optimising the manufacturing footprint to date.
The programme is expected to deliver the recently acquired businesses was 20.2%, of the personal care business in Europe and other steady state annual cost savings of 17m by the which was in line with the strategic targets.
site specic cost efficiency programmes.
The cumulative annual savings Cash management was strong with free cash ow have accelerated and 7m was generated in up 41%.
Although the Groups gearing increased Divesting non-core businesses and properties: the year.
through debt funded acquisitions the financial this comprises the planned sale of the Cobelplast position of the Group remains robust with a sheet businesses Lokeren and Montonate and Group Performance leverage ratio of 1.7 and new 350m borrowing the disposables trading business at Offenburg, The Group delivered a good performance for the facilities arranged in April 2014 which increased and the disposal of surplus properties from year with sales increasing by 7% to 1,047m of the funding capability of the Group.
previous restructurings at Raunds, Runcorn, Goor which 3% related to acquisitions, with higher and more recently Beuningen.
Adjusted basic earnings per share reached 41.1p activity levels on the previous year and sales 2013: 36.9p and the recommended final dividend mix enhanced.
The adjusted operating profit The programme is progressing well and is ahead will result in a total dividend of 15.5p 2013: 14.9p of 101.3m increased by 9.7m, with return of plan, with the site at Antwerp closed early which is in line with the Groups progressive on sales at 9.7% 2013: 9.3% and RONOA at in the year, the Beuningen site now vacated dividend policy.
24.5% 2013: 22.6%, both measures ahead of and the Troyes site, which was affected by a the fide minimis levels established in Vision 2020. ood in May 2013 and identied for closure as Non-Financial KPIs After adjusting for 3.5m of profit contribution a consequence, ceasing production in March RPC has three main non-financial key performance from the newly acquired businesses, and 2014 earlier than anticipated.
From an environmental and excluding a depreciation adjustment of 3.7m, the at Mullsj to expand its production facility cost control perspective electricity and water main drivers of improvement were higher activity preceding the site closure at Tenhult in 2014 15. usage per tonne produced are measured and levels, particularly in higher added value products Under the existing business optimisation from an employee welfare perspective reportable and other business improvements including 7m work stream, restructuring activities, including accidents are monitored.
of benets arising from the Fitter for the Future redundancies, took place at Oakham UKIM and business programme, offsetting inationary Envases, San Roque, Kutenholz and UKSC Blow cost pressures.
Polymer prices, although at high Moulding.
The Cobelplast businesses at Lokeren Case study Packaging studies have found that consumers prefer a beautifully packaged product from an unknown label to one in less appealing packaging from a well-known brand.
This underlines packagings vital role in conveying a premium brand image and nowhere is this more important than in cosmetics and important than in personal care packaging helping to personal care p create the wow factor that distinguishes create the wo a brand from its competitors.
a brand from Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 The Group continues to make stringent efforts Electricity usage per tonne Water usage per tonne to improve its efficient usage of electricity and KWH T L T water.
The impact of a number of energy saving initiatives to replace older machinery with more modern energy conserving equivalents has been 1,935 1% 704 0% offset by the shift towards a higher consumption per polymer tonne converted associated with the manufacture of higher value added products.
2,013 1,999 1,897 1,925 1,935 876 761 717 706 704 Water usage has reduced signicantly in recent years following recycling initiatives including closed loop cooling systems introduced to manufacturing sites across the Group.
Focus on health and safety remains strong but a higher number of reportable accidents in the earlier part of the financial year led to an increase in 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 the reportable accident frequency rate.
A new improvement plan has been initiated which has already led to significant improvements in the safety programme in the current year.
Outlook The Group is well placed to deliver on its Vision 2020 Focused Growth strategy.
High quality platforms for growth in Asia, USA and South East Europe have been added to the Group whilst further acquisition opportunities to enhance shareholder value continue to be explored.
The Fitter for the Future business optimisation programme is anticipated to deliver further benets in the new financial year, which has started in line with managements expectations.
P R M Vervaat Chief Executive 09 June 2014 RPCs design capabilities deliver eye-catching User-friendly benets include lightweight and packs with maximum shelf stand out.
High quality easy handling, while our airless dispensers ensure decoration techniques including labelling, hot accurate, controlled and hygienic dispensing of stamping, lacquering, metallisation, silk-screen products of many different viscosities combined and pad printing plus specialist processes such with attractive designs.
as gold electroplating and the incorporation of Technical developments gemstones help to achieve a stunning and and improvements here eye-catching nish.
Advanced manufacturing have seen these technologies, for example a dual layer systems able to cope construction for with small particulates cream jars, create a or continue to operate premium image.
smoothly even if air is trapped inthe container.
24 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Operating review continued Injection Moulding Revenue 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 restated 692m m m Sales 692.4 628.3 2013: 628m Adjusted operating profit 70.1 63.7 Return on sale 10.1% 10.1% Return on net operating assets 26.8% 25.5% The business comprises the Superfos, BramlageNordic regions, and an improvement in sales in Wiko and UKIM clusters.
Included within the Iberia indicating some signs of a recovery in the results are the contributions made by M&H Spanish economy.
The dairy and paint sectors Plastics sales 22.7m: operating profit 3.4m saw particularly strong growth and the cluster and Helioplast sales 1.8m: operating profit benefited from improved sales volumes of thin- 0.1m for the period under RPC ownership.
walled packaging TWP and barrier products, After adjusting for these acquisitions and other with sales of Superlock increasing.
The cluster adjustments, like-for-like profit improved by acquired the Helioplast business in December 5% over the year reecting growth in volumes.
2013, which extends its production and sales Return on sales remained above 10% and return capability in the Balkans.
The planned merger of on net operating assets RONOA increased to the two Swedish sites Mullsj and Tenhalt under 26.8% 2013: 25.5%.
the Fitter for the Future programme commenced in February 2014 and is expected to deliver cost Superfos manufactures and distributes open savings in 2014 15 providing a platform for future top lled injection moulded containers and has growth in the Nordic region, particularly in the manufacturing facilities in France, Belgium, barrier and TWP products, whilst achieving a Spain, Poland, Denmark, Sweden and Bosniamore competitive cost base.
Herzegovina, with joint ventures in Turkey and North Africa.
Overall activity levels were higher, with good growth in the Central East and Case study Case study RPCs barrier solutions use complex multi-layer structures to prevent oxygen ingress and deliver long ambient shelf-life, equivalent to glass or metal but at a fraction of the weight, while maintaining product quality and freshness.
Our barrier technologies can be allied to all three of our manufacturing processes blow moulding, injection moulding and thermoforming to tailor a solution to precise product and brand requirements.
So, whether the focus ison the need for reclosability, intricate eye-catching designs, or a large familysize pack, RPC has theexibility in both materials and processes to meet any or all ofthese requirements.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Bramlage-Wiko, which operates in Germany, business successfully transferred to other sites.
France, Slovakia, UK and the USA, showed In addition the cluster is embarking on a review of Acquisitions in Injection Moulding volume growth, with increased sales into the its manufacturing footprint to improve efficiencies.
As part of the implementation of the personal care and coffee capsule markets.
Capital investment included the expansion of Group's strategy, Vision 2020, M&H the US facility and the addition of production The results were further enhanced by the Plastics and Helioplast were both acquired capacity for major new contract wins.
The cluster M&H Plastics business which was acquired in December 2013.
M&H has sites in remains well positioned to exploit new business in December 2013.
New investments were the UK and USA and has an extensive opportunities through its strong market positions made to increase production capacity for in-house tool library, enhancing RPC's and leading technological know-how.
coffee capsules, and at Morgantown in the comprehensive personal care offering.
USA a US$9m expansion of its facilities was For UKIM, the UK injection moulding business, commenced to accommodate additional capacity the business performance was stable, with Helioplast has a state-of-the-art for single-serve beverage systems, growth in overall sales down on last year, in part due to manufacturing facility in Bosniapersonal care products and higher added value the transfer of some volumes to the lower cost Herzegovina specialising in injection food packaging, with new business already Superfos facility in Poland.
This was part of moulded rigid plastic packaging for the secured.
The Manuplastics UK business, which the cost reduction and product rationalisation food industry.
was acquired in 2012, saw sales volumes and initiative in paint containers, under the Fitter for For further details on our acquisitions see profits grow signicantly in the year and it is the Future programme, which has been focused now working closely with the M&H business mainly on the Oakham site.
Over the year the page 10. to co-ordinate sales activities.
During the year overall surface coatings market improved but the cluster took responsibility for the Envases activity levels in the second half were adversely business in Madrid formerly part of the Blow impacted by the mild winter which reduced soup Moulding cluster, providing a strategic focus pot sales.
New contracts were secured for the on injection moulding in Spain whilst continuing injection moulding spreads business in addition to serve the blow moulding market.
Following a to the business transferred from Antwerp.
review of the business the closure of the San The cluster also launched the Superlock product Roque facility was announced later in the year.
range into the UK market, a container with barrier Other Fitter for the Future initiatives included capability developed by Superfos, and early signs the closure of the Antwerp Belgium site indicate that this has good potential for future earlier in the year, as part of the yellow fats sales growth.
manufacturing optimisation programme, with A 1kg blow moulded jar is being used for the Recent customer requirements have ranged from Fridge Pack, which combines extended shelf-life a thermoformed pack to resemble a traditional with portion control once opened the jar can French cooking pot to large-size containers with be resealed and stored in the fridge for up to indented handles for easy handling in the busy five days.
Meanwhile, thermoforming produces foodservice sector.
Use of in-mould labelling the popular Snap Pots, which combines barrier provide convenient microwavable technology with the individual portions.
availability of high-quality decoration for maximum on-shelf impact.
Two RPC solutions for Heinzs famous Baked Beans demonstrate the exibility of our barrier technologies to meet different market requirements.
26 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Operating review continued Thermoforming Revenue 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 restated 182m m m Sales 182.0 184.1 2013: 184m Adjusted operating profit 19.1 17.1 Return on sale 10.5% 9.3% Return on net operating assets 34.9% 30.2% The thermoforming operations comprise the retail untenable.
The site ceased production in March should provide growth opportunities going food packaging, coffee capsules and the UK 2014 and is currently subject to an insurance forward.
The business is also working with vending businesses which are managed by the claim for property damage and business several customers on extending the single serve Bebo cluster.
Following the decision to dispose interruption.
ofthe Cobelplast sheet production cluster during The yellow fats and spreads market is a Following a review of the other businesses within the period, its results for the current and prior significant part of the clusters business and the the thermoforming segment, it was decided to sell periods have been excluded and are shown Group has strong market positions in this area.
the trading disposables business at Offenburg separately as Discontinued operations.
Although Aspart of the Fitter for the Future programme the Germany, which is considered a non-core activity levels were down in the year, the Bebo facility at Beuningen Netherlands was closed business.
The business was subsequently sold in cluster performed well with adjusted operating during the year, with business transferred closer May 2014.
In addition the future of the Cobelplast profit up 12% reecting the benets of a reduced to its customers to lower cost sites at Corby UK cluster comprising sites at Lokeren Belgium and cost base from prior year restructuring activities and Poznan Poland.
Offsetting this were Montonate Italy was considered best served and growth in key markets.
RONOA improved to improved sales across the rest of the businesses.
outside of the Group, with the cluster being put 34.9% 2013: 30.2%.
Business improvement initiatives have With respect to new product development, good Sales were adversely affected by the ood at the continued at the Lokeren site, and there was good progress was made in the development of IML-T Troyes France site, which lost part of its French sales growth in the year at Montonate.
This will apply the benets of dairy business as a consequence.
Although some process for both sites was well advanced by the in-mould labelling including enhanced continuity of supply was maintained by end of the financial year.
decoration, currently only enjoyed in injection transferring business to alternative RPC sites, moulding, to thermoformed products which theood damage was extensive and the loss of part of its business made the viability of the site Case study RPCs ability to deliver added value packaging solutions is as evident in the containers it produces for everyday products as it is for the ones developed for more specialist sectors.
Our continuing achievements in lightweighting create reliable and practical packs that also contribute to a reduced carbon footprint: our design creativity and a choice of advanced decoration technologies help to e establish brand differentiation and c consumer appeal on crowded s shelves: we are a leader and i innovator in the use of postc consumer and post-industrial r recycled plastic: and we remain at t the forefront of new technologies s such as In Mould Label T Thermoforming IML-T. Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Blow Moulding Revenue 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 restated 173m m m Sales 172.5 169.9 2013: 170m Adjusted operating profit 12.1 10.8 Return on sale 7.0% 6.4% Return on net operating assets 20.7% 19.0% The blow moulding business operates from ten In mainland Europe the business continues to During the year the Blow Moulding cluster sites based in the UK, France, Germany, Belgium benefit from growth in agrochemicals and is launched a Fitter for the Future initiative to further and the Netherlands, their location dened by investing in automation to improve profitability.
improve its competitive position by refocusing the thegeographical markets they serve.
The operation in Kerkrade Netherlands, which business on specic markets and technologies, has refocused on serving the food sector, and optimising its manufacturing foot print.
The business performed well with adjusted improved its profitability over the period.
This includes investing in technology to move operating profit, return on sales and RONOA An improvement plan was initiated at Kutenholz from medium to high barrier multi-layer products all ahead of last year with sales growth and Germany to optimise its cost base resulting in a to secure the packaging growth driven by the cost reduction measures improving profitability.
substitution of glass and metal with plastic in There were good volume increases across the the food sector, and to develop a more focused UK sites with new contracts secured for PET In respect of product development, new growth regional organisation to ensure that the strong containers in food, lubricants, industrial products opportunities are being pursued successfully market positions in key geographical areas are and for bottle caps.
In the multi-layer market in the PET food market with the Group maintained and better served.
volumes were slightly lower but sales of new commissioning a new production technology.
weight-saving multi-layer catering jars increased Enhanced barrier applications are being and new growth opportunities are emerging for researched which could potentially open up olives and preservative-free fruit.
All this leads to the widest choice of standard containers across our three manufacturing processes, together with the ability to devise bespoke designs to meet speciccustomer objectives and requirements.
