20 Strategic report Operations review Latin America In Latin America, selective pricing and above mainstream enforcement, and dry days.
This favourable lager volume brand momentum underpinned organic, constant currency performance was underpinned by the expansion of our bulk group NPR growth of 5%.
Reported group NPR declined by packs, improved distribution reach, and strong point of sale 1%, following the depreciation of key currencies against the execution.
Growth was driven by our mainstream Poker brand USdollar and the disposal of our milk and juice business in and trading up in our guila franchise to guila Light, while Panama.
Total beverage volumes and lager volumes grew by our local brand Club Colombia, with its recently introduced 3% and 1% respectively on an organic basis, with alcohol new proprietary packaging, and the international Miller range share gains across our markets, with the exception of Panama performed well in the premium segment.
Selective price and Peru, where the excise increase in May 2013 impacted the increases also assisted our top line performance while beer category.
The continuing focus on market-facing activities production costs reduced in real terms reflecting plant and effective trade execution assisted in driving our revenue efficiencies, with distribution costs benefiting from the growth despite trading disruptions and restrictions.
We insourcing of transport operations.
Further fixed cost continue to see success with our bulk pack offerings in productivity and the disposal of surplus real estate boosted Colombia, Honduras and El Salvador where we offer more margin growth.
Our non-alcoholic malt brand, Pony Malta, affordable lager to low income consumers.
Our light beer performed well in a very competitive category, assisted by segment has seen significant growth in key consumption the launch of a new multi-serve pack, resulting in soft drinks occasions, driving trading up and improving our brand mix.
Profitability was further boosted by lower production and In Peru, domestic lager volumes were marginally ahead of the fixed costs, as well as asset disposals, resulting in a reported prior year despite an excise-driven price increase in May 2013 EBITA margin increase of 180 bps to 38.2%.
and a continuing shift in expenditure patterns, most notably In Colombia, lager volumes grew by 2% despite difficult to the communication and transport sectors.
However, lager trading conditions with social unrest and strikes during the volumes returned to growth in the fourth quarter.
Our lager second quarter, as well as restrictions on retailer trading portfolio, which includes the newly introduced Backus Ice, hours, the national zero tolerance drink and drive legislation Miller Lite and Miller Genuine Draft MGD have continued to consolidate SABMillers success in the growing premium and super premium segments in Panama, with Miller Lite having a 19.4% volume share of the total beer market and 51.9% volume share of the premium beer segment, while MGD continued to gain share in the super premium segment with 64.2%, each for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Miller brands have capitalised on consumer trends towards easy drinking and premium beers, which our other markets in Latin America are now replicating.
Karl Lippert President, SABMiller Latin America The continuing focus on market-facing activities and effective trade execution assisted in driving our revenue growth.
Leading Lite Strategic report 21 Focus areas Improving above mainstream mix: Broadening appeal with lighter beers in upper mainstream Accelerated international brands Extended outlet reach with improved sales service Bulk packs helping to drive affordable beer sales Production, distribution and shared services efficiencies Significant business with production operations Selling operations and major export markets In Panama, lager volume growth of 1% was underpinned by 40,000 tenderos smallthe premium segment where our international brand Miller Lite scale shopkeepers 40,000 continued to consolidate its position as one of the leading across six core markets, brands in the market with high double digit growth.
This will benefit from our helped offset declining volumes of our mainstream brands, tenderos four-year, US$17 million reflecting a structural shift within the category.
Our soft drinks 4e, Camino al Progreso volumes also grew by 1% on an organic basis assisted by programme in partnership our non-alcoholic malt brand, Malta Vigor, which recorded Read more about how we are with the Inter-American 12% growth with increased reach aiding performance, while improving the livelihoods of Development Bank.
sparkling soft drinks volumes declined amid competitor microretailers on page 16 discounting.
The disposal of the milk and juice business, which was in line with our strategy to restructure and simplify continued to benefit from the upper mainstream brand Pilsen our business in Panama, was completed in May 2013.
Callao and its strong performance in the large Lima market, In Honduras, our operations felt the impact of a challenging offsetting lower volumes of the Cristal and Cusquea brands.
social environment, security concerns, Sunday trading While beers share of alcohol declined owing to the excise restrictions, and an increase in sales and alcohol taxes.
increase, our lager market share improved by 150 bps.
Our Against this backdrop, lager volumes declined by 2%.
Our direct distribution model has allowed us to improve reach and premium brands, Barena and Miller Lite, performed well with capture more operational efficiencies, which together with the latter growing by double digits.
Our mainstream brand, fixed cost productivity has assisted margin growth.
Soft drinks Salva Vida, continued to see robust growth from the more volumes were up by 14% with growth coming from sparkling affordable bulk pack and helped solidify our market position soft drinks and water, assisted by pack innovations.
and offset the decline of the Imperial brand.
Soft drinks Ecuador achieved lager volume growth of 2% with extended volumes grew by 2% aided by multi-serve packs, pack distribution and increased availability offsetting restrictions on innovations and increased home consumption.
alcohol sales and a ban on alcohol advertising.
Our upper El Salvador saw lager volume growth of 2% driven by our mainstream brand Pilsener Light continued to grow at double flagship mainstream brand Pilsener, with bulk packs continuing digit rates with the trade up from Pilsener further boosting to drive growth and consumers trading up from economy group NPR growth.
This was supported by the new sales brands.
In the premium segment our local brand Suprema service model, expanded market development and enhanced grew by 25%, assisted by the launch of a red beer variant, trade execution, particularly at events and festivals.
Soft drinks volumes grew by 8% over the prior non-alcoholic malt brand, Pony Malta, saw volume growth year, with robust growth in non-alcoholic malt beverages of 9% for the year, with continuing success of smaller PET andjuices.
packs introduced in the year.
Organic, constant Reported Restated Net acquisitions Currency Organic Reported currency growth growth Financial summary 2013 and disposals translation growth 2014 % % Group revenue including share of associates US$m 7,821 45 424 460 7,812 6 Group NPR including share of associates US$m 5,802 45 305 293 5,745 5 1 1 EBITA US$m 2,112 11 112 203 2,192 10 4 EBITA margin % 36.4 38.2 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 43,007 579 43,586 1 1 Soft drinks 17,866 344 992 18,514 6 4 In 2014 before exceptional credits of US$47 million being the profit on disposal of the Panama milk and juice business 2013: US$63 million being business capability programmecosts.
