Strategic report Operating review Grocery 12 Grocery comprises consumer-facing businesses that manufacture and market a variety of well-known brands both nationally and GROCERY internationally.
Twinings Ovaltine has the broadest geographical reach, selling premium teas and malted beverages in more than 100 countries.
AB World Foods focuses on the creation and development of world flavours and its Pataks and Blue Dragon branded products Revenue are sold internationally.
Westmill Foods specialises in supplying 3,337m UK restaurants and wholesalers with high-quality ethnic foods including rice, spices, sauces, oils, flour and noodles under 2013 : 3,568m brands such as Rajah, Lucky Boat andElephant.
Actual fx: -6% Jordans and Ryvita operates in the better-for-you cereal and Constant fx: -1% savoury biscuits categories in the UK but with increasing international presence.
Jordans has a heritage of using traditional Adjusted operating profit methods in the production of its wholegrain cereals and cereal 269m bars.
Ryvita has built a strong reputation in healthy snacking and is the UK category leader in crispbreads.
Allied Bakeries produces 2013 : 224m a range of bakery products under the Kingsmill, Sunblest, Actual fx: 20% Allinson and Burgen brands, with flour and semolina produced Constant fx: 24% by sister company, Allied Mills.
Speedibake specialises in own-label baked goods for retail and foodservice customers.
Adjusted operating Silver Spoon and Billingtons are our two retail sugar brands profit margin in the UK, complemented by a range of dessert toppings and 8.1% syrups under the Askeys and Crushabrands.
2013 : 6.3% In Australia, Tip Top is one of the countrys most recognised Return on average brands, with an extensive range of bread and baked goods and capital employed George Weston Foods also manufactures a variety of bacon, ham and meat products including the Don and KR Castlemaine brands.
20.8% In North America, ACH Foods includes within its range of branded 2013 : 16.9% products, Mazola, the leading corn oil in the US, Capullo, a premium canola oil in Mexico and a collection of herbs, spices Restated and corn-derived products.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 ICONIC BRANDS We have developed an enviable portfolio of leading grocery brands that reflect the wonderful tastes of food from a diversity of cultures.
Together they play a central role in helping to feed millions of people around the world.
co. uk COLLABORATIVE DISTRIBUTION As our global reach expands it is important that our distribution capability keeps pace, without compromising customer satisfaction.
In some countries that means collaboration with other group companies.
For example, Ryvita is distributed by George Weston Foods in Australia and Twinings is distributed by ACH Foods in Mexico.
co. uk Strategic report Operating review Grocery Grocery operating profit increased by support this year and achieved further 15 24% at constant currency with George growth.
The five-year capital investment Weston Foods in Australia, ACH Foods programme to upgrade our UK bakeries in the US and Twinings Ovaltine all is almost at an end with completion of well ahead of last year.
Revenues the modernisation of the Glasgow were level with last year at constant bakery during the year and the installation currency and were held back by lower of a new bread plant in Stevenage food commodity prices.
which is due to be commissioned in November.
The proposed closure of Twinings Ovaltine delivered strong the Orpington bakery was announced revenue growth in tea with record market in August with employee consultation shares achieved in each of its four largest nearing conclusion.
Growth was achieved in all categories in the UK led by excellent Silver Spoons revenue and profitability progress in green teas and infusions, and was well below last year reflecting an we remain the fastest growing tea brand especially competitive year for the UK in the US.
Ovaltine again performed well packed sugar market which saw the in its developing markets, particularly loss of a number of granulated sugar Brazil, where the brand was supported contracts.
This was mitigated in part by a new advertising campaign, in south by a reduction in overheads at the Bury east Asia, and in Nigeria where our packaging plant.
New product launches new Ovaltine packing plant is now resulted in Truvia growing its share of the fully operational.
Tea manufacturing stevia sweeteners market and, in the conversion costs were lower than last home baking sector, Allinson maintained year with the benefit of higher volumes, its position as the leading bread flour further improvements in operating brand following last years relaunch.
efficiency at the factory in Poland and Revenue and profit at Jordans and Ryvita more high-speed packing equipment were ahead of last year with good growth at Andover.
in our international business, particularly At Allied Bakeries, revenues and profit in France, Canada and Australia.
The new were ahead of last year with higher Ryvita Thins line at the Poole factory branded sales and an increase in market yielded improvements in production share.
Successful new products this year efficiency and product quality, enabling included Kingsmill Great White, a white supply to keep pace with substantially bread with as much fibre as a wholemeal increased demand.
On 20 October, after loaf, which was launched in February clearance from the Competition and supported by an in-store marketing Markets Authority, we completed the campaign and television advertising.
This New re-sealable packaging with a premium brand, with particular strength refreshed design drove further growth in the growing Muesli sector, will of Kingsmill wraps, and towards the end complement our existing Jordans cereals of the year we launched Sandwich Thins and Ryvita crispbread brands.
We intend which are proving very popular.
Following to maintain Dorset Cereals existing its relaunch last year, the Allinson brand production facility in Poundbury, Dorset.
received further national advertising Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Grocery 16 AB World Foods achieved revenue business.
Factory productivity was also growth in the UK for Pataks and Blue better at Don KRC which contributed to RYVITA THINS Dragon which are, respectively, the better meat yields and a reduction in largest Indian and Oriental ambient food labour costs.
Both brands also performed well and improved customer service levels internationally, particularly in Canada resulted in a number of new contracts where social media campaigns to being secured and an increase in coincide with ethnic festivals proved to be market share.
The opening of the new an effective way of promoting awareness meat factory in Castlemaine enabled of the product range.
The core brands of the closure of our factory near Perth in Westmill Foods, Lucky Boat noodles and Western Australia and the redevelopment Elephant Atta flour, both achieved further of the substantial site.
Good progress growth and, towards the end of the year, has been made with the preparation of we relaunched the Rajah spice brand with this site for housing development and When we launched Ryvita Thins in new packaging, advertising support and a number of lots were sold this year.
April 2008, they were a new concept in-store trial.
Sales at ACH were ahead of last year, in savoury flatbread biscuits.
They were George Weston Foods in Australia largely the result of increased demand for designed for dipping.
achieved a major improvement in Mazola with positive consumer reaction They have helped to create an entirely performance with higher bread prices, to a plant sterols advertising campaign new product category in UK increased meat volumes, the delivery highlighting the cholesterol-lowering supermarkets, which is now worth of a number of cost reduction initiatives benefits of corn oil.
In our Flavours almost 20m a year and is growing at and improved commodity procurement.
business, volume increases were 6% year-on-year.
Ryvita Thins continue In a challenging retail and competitor secured in barbecue and grilling spices to lead the way with year-on-year volume environment, Tip Top successfully with a very successful marketing growth at four times the rate of the implemented bread price rises in the first campaign, Grilling with the Greats, in flatbreads category.
half of the year which, together with an association with Major League Baseball.
increase in the proportion of higher Capullo, our premium oil brand in Mexico, Ryvita Thins are already available in margin products sold and further increased its market share which, four flavours, with more to come, and productivity improvements, led to a together with the benefit of lower input account for over half of the categorys higher operating profit for the bakery costs, drove profit ahead of last year.
Well over two million households are now buying Ryvita Thins each year.
The five-year investment programme at Allied Bakeries to create a state-ofthe-art baking capability across the UK is now substantially complete and ensures the reliable supply of high-quality bread to our customers.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Grocery 17 GREAT WHITE MAZOLA TWININGS A soft, tasty, quality white loaf with as We werent the first tea brand into the much fibre as wholemeal.
But weare now the market leader.
Fibre is good for you and most of us dont get enough of it.
Having tested the water in the away-fromhome channel starting in 2005, we The European dietary reference value for targeted the grocery channel aggressively Corn oil.
Yet 7 out of 10 men in 2011, offering 21 different varieties and 9 out of 10 women in the UK dont Research carried out for Mazola in from Rooibos to Pumpkin Spice in the manage that.
the USsought to challenge consumers K-cup format.
American tea drinkers perceptions that olive oil apremium So, Allied Bakeries has developed likehaving multiple tea products in priced product isthehealthiest oil.
Kingsmill Great White a quality white their pantry.
loaf, as soft and tasty as our top a multi-million dollar investment in selling Kingsmill Soft White, but advertising and product sampling Natural plant sterols, can and dolower with the added benefit of having the together with aprogramme to educate cholesterol.
Corn oil hasmore of these same amount of fibre as wholemeal.
the USretail trade in how to optimise sterols than other cooking oils, and four A bread with no compromise.
Simply changing from two slices of white It worked!
The core market for the Mazola brand bread to Kingsmill Great White could inthe US is the Hispanic community.
increase your fibre intake by 3g a day.
Amarketing plan based on this science, and executed in the second half of 2014 And consumers like it.
Backed by a strong inSpanish and English, has driven growth TV campaign and in-store support, in the overall corn oil segment, along Kingsmill Great White gained an 8% withMazolas market share and its share of all standard white bread sales consumption in non-Hispanic regions.
in the UK in its first three months.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Sugar 18 AB Sugar is a leading multinational in the expanding international markets for sugar and sugar-derived co-products.
In the EU, SUGAR Azucarera is the major producer in Iberia and British Sugar is the sole processor of the UK sugar beet crop and is Europes most efficient processor.
Illovo Sugar, in which the group has a 51% stake, is the largest sugar processor in Africa and is one of the worlds foremost low-cost producers.
We also have substantial businesses in China producing cane sugar in the south and beet Revenue sugar in the north-east.
The group currently operates 31 plants 2,083m in ten countries and has the capacity to produce over 5million 2013: 2,677m tonnes of sugar and 600 million litres of ethanol annually.
We also have the capacity to generate power sufficient to meet most of Actual fx: -22% our internal needs and, in a number of locations, we export Constant fx: -17% power into the local grid.
Adjusted operating profit As a consumer of a large quantity of agricultural inputs, we have a number of programmes to maximise crop yields whilst also 189m minimising the usage of herbicides, pesticides and water.
2013: 434m This applies equally to our out-grower estates, funded jointly Actual fx: -56% with our growers, as well as our own farms.
We seek to ensure the early transfer of technology and best practice across AB Sugar.
Constant fx: -54% We are a significant employer in each of our countries of Adjusted operating operation, some of which are among the most impoverished in profit margin the world.
AB Sugar seeks to ensure the wellbeing of all its employees, their families and the wider community and in the 9.1% developing countries we provide more wide-ranging social support 2013: 16.2% including the provision of hospitals, schooling, housing and healthy Return on average livingprogrammes.
capital employed 10.5% 2013: 23.3% Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 TECHNICAL EXPERTISE From the development of ever more efficient sugar production across the group, to helping customers in the formulation of their products, we work hard to apply the learnings and innovations from each of our sugar businesses for their mutual benefit and development.
co. uk Strategic report Operating review Sugar 20 Revenue and adjusted operating These are aimed at extending our cost The beet price payable to growers for profit for AB Sugar were substantially leadership in all regions to ensure that the 2014 15 crop was agreed in summer lower than last year driven by AB Sugar is well positioned as a globally 2013, at a substantial increase over the declining sugar prices, lower volumes competitive producer.
price for the year under review, and at an and adverse currency translation.
increased cost to British Sugar of some British Sugar produced 1.32 million The price and volume effects were 30m.
Negotiations for delivered beet tonnes of sugar compared with predominantly seen in Europe where costs for the 2015 16 campaign have now 1.15 million tonnes last year.
Good prices were driven down by increased been concluded with a reduction of some growing conditions extended into the market competition as our 20% on the previous year.
This will make mild winter resulting in higher beet yields competitors seek to establish new a major contribution to ensuring a more and sugar content than last year.
All UK market positions ahead of the sustainable UK beet sugar industry factories performed well with further removal of quotas in 2017, and by a reflective of the new commercial progress achieved in performance desire to reduce quota stock levels environment for EU sugar.
improvement initiatives and in health, across the EU which have been higher safety and environmental metrics.
In Spain, sugar beet volumes were lower than normal.
The world sugar price, than last year with a larger crop area in the which has more of an impact on EU The crop for the 2014 15 campaign south not compensating for a reduction exports and our Chinese business, has benefited from excellent growing in the area planted in the north due to was low, and fell further, throughout conditions, with every indication that it waterlogged fields during the spring.
As a the year but we consider this to be will be much larger than that processed consequence, total beet sugar production unsustainable given that it is in the previous year.
The new campaign was 338,000 tonnes, down from 405,000 markedly below the global average has started well with production ahead tonnes in the previous year.
of schedule and with our Newark and tonnes of imported raw sugar was refined Wissington factories already exceeding Our sugar businesses have been at Guadalete and a further 59,000 tonnes daily beet throughput records.
This larger actively engaged in performance was co-refined at the northern beet plants crop will provide the opportunity to improvement programmes for a number supplementing the beet sugar production confirm our ability to process the higher of years.
All businesses have undertaken and minimising logistics costs to market.
volumes that we expect to become a review of overheads, substantial the norm in a post-quota environment.
Contract negotiations with our EU reductions have already been delivered customers for the 2014 15 marketing year and the programmes are continuing.
are proving to be as challenging as last year.
There are high stocks of sugar in the EU, competition continues to be intense and both of these factors have continued to drive EU prices downward.
In response to this difficult commercial environment Operationally, AB Sugar had an excellent we have undertaken a review of our cost base and a provision of 22m for the cost year with good factory performance of overhead reduction has been charged to adjusted operating profit this year.
and further substantial cost reductions After a complex commissioning process, production volumes at the Vivergo from the performance improvement biofuels plant increased significantly this year.
Although inclusion levels of ethanol in gasoline continued to rise in the EU programmes which are well embedded year-on-year, gasoline consumption has fallen which has led to lower prices.
in each of our businesses.
Vivergo sustained a loss this year but further enhancements to the plant in the new financial year will improve reliability Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Sugar and throughputs are expected to meet or 21 exceed rated capacity.
Combined with AB SUGAR CHINA TRANSFORMATION KILOMBERO DISTILLERY lower wheat prices the profitability of Vivergo is therefore expected to improve.
Building a distillery in a remote part of Tanzania has its challenges.
The nearest Profit at Illovo saw some reduction this source of building materials was an eightyear.
Sugar production of 1.70 million hour drive away, plant and machinery had tonnes this financial year compared with to be imported from India and complex 1.87 million tonnes last year, primarily as cultural considerations had to be taken a result of lower production in Zambia into account.
But the distillery was and Swaziland where the phasing of the delivered on time, on budget, and with campaign is slightly later than last year.
Domestic pricing increased in line with local inflation with the exception of The distillery is a significant downstream Tanzania and South Africa which were addition to our operations employing a affected by low-cost imports.
However, highly integrated approach to import tariffs have now been introduced manufacturing which transforms all of in South Africa which has resulted in our raw materials into sustainable A project was initiated in July 2013 to some improvement in local pricing.
products and extends our sugar and support the transformation of our existing The profitability of exports of raw sugar to non-sugar product range in this sugar business in China into a more agile the EU market under preferential import instance by meeting the increasing and cost-effective operation able to arrangements was adversely affected regional demand from local breweries compete effectively in the local economy, by the lower pricing in that market.
whilst holding firm to our principles of Co-product contribution, which is of improving standards of environmental growing importance to Illovo, increased and safety governance.
this year with the successful operation Across China, we have four beet and of the new potable alcohol distillery IRISH TANKER DELIVERIES five cane sugar factories receiving raw in Tanzania.
Since April, all of British Sugars deliveries In China, profitability has improved in Ireland have been made by their brand Integral to the project has been the with the implementation of a number new road tanker fleet using scheduled structured focus on developing farming of overhead reduction and efficiency ferries, rather than by container shipment.
practices to improve the agricultural initiatives.
In the south, excellent growing effectiveness of our grower base as Not only is this more suitable for our conditions and a higher sugar content in well as a rigorous drive to reduce overall customers, but it also increases flexibility the cane resulted in an increase in sugar costs and enhance processing efficiency.
and reduces delivery times from three production from 500,000 tonnes last year This has been delivered through a careful weeks to four days.
And with larger to 560,000 tonnes this year.
However, scrutiny of activities and the load sizes, the number of journeys flooding in Heilongjiang province led to re-engineering of processes.
required has shrunk by more than a reduction in beet supplied to our 15%, thus reducing both environmental factories which resulted in much lower We have benchmarked our factory considerations and cost whilst improving sugar production in the north, at 116,000 performances and transferred bestcustomer service.
The campaigns at Qianqi and practice across our other operations in the Zhangbei were excellent with good UK, Spain and Africa, as well as reducing factory throughput and a high sugar our overall costs in China by over 20%.
content in the beet following our success The three-year project is due to complete in working with the growers over a within the next year, by which time we number of years.
A significant level will have improved annual profitability of imports and increased domestic in China by some 40m.
production resulted in very low domestic prices throughout the year.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 ENSURING QUALITY We work from field to fork, continuing to develop innovative ways to help farmers maintain their crop and livestock yields and to provide an assured source of consistently high quality animal feeds.
co. uk Strategic report Operating review Agriculture 23 AB Agri is a major business in UK agriculture and is increasingly operating on a global scale.
It supplies feed and technology-based AGRICULTURE products and services to farmers, feed and food manufacturers, processors and retailers.
It also buys grain from UK farmers and supplies them with agronomy advice and crop inputs through its joint venture, Frontier Agriculture.
Operating across the agricultural supply chain, AB Agri Revenue manufactures high-performance compound feeds, provides 1,312m world-leading analytical services, nutritional advice and poultry marketing services for customers.
It provides a value-added 2013: 1,410m service to food, drink and bioethanol companies internationally, Actual fx: -7% by marketing their co-products as animal feed, which in turn helps to reduce the costs of production for its farming customer base.
Constant fx: -6% Working globally it supplies the livestock and pet industries with Adjusted operating profit premixes, enzymes and other technical ingredients and plays a key role in delivering supply chain integrity for retailers andprocessors.
50m AB Agris operations comprise: 2013: 47m Actual fx: 6% A B Connect a feed supply business serving the UKs food and farmingcommunity: Constant fx: 11% AB Vista an international supplier of world-leading feed Adjusted operating ingredients and technical services: profit margin Speciality Nutrition a supplier of high-quality, bespoke, 3.8% vitamin mineral premixes, starter feed and micro-ingredients, 2013: 3.3% with world-class nutrition and formulation expertise: Return on average AB Sustain a specialist in designing, developing and capital employed delivering bespoke sustainable agricultural supply chain 17.3% solutions for clients: 2013: 16.4% AB Agri China a high-performance feed manufacturer for the ruminant, pig and poultry sectors, a co-product marketing and feed additives business and an industrial services business working with large-scale processors to optimise the food supply chain: and Frontier Agriculture a joint venture which is the UKs leading crop inputs and grain marketing organisation.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Agriculture 24 granulation facility at Evansville, Indiana, is operating successfully providing AB Agri deserves credit for the further additional capacity to meet the increasing demand for these enzymes.
development of the business, particularly Good commercial and procurement management drove a strong performance for the strides made by AB Vista as it at Speciality Nutrition, our UK pre-mix and starter feeds business.
Expansion and extends its global reach.
modernisation of its plant at Rugeley enabled the business to meet increasingly stringent customer demands for high quality pre-mixes.
AB Sustains responsible sourcing programme achieved growth during the year and this programme has now been extended into overseas markets.
AB Agri had another excellent year AB Agri China maintained margins with adjusted operating profit 11% through good procurement and a ahead of last year at constant favourable product mix.
The decline in revenue demand for meat in China continues to reflected lower wheat and other grow with a particular need to ensure commodity costs.
However, cash reliable and high-quality sources.
As meat margins in UK feed were maintained production in China therefore transitions and the profit growth was delivered from small, family-run concerns towards by the higher margin businesses.
large-scale commercial operations, there The wet winter in the UK, particularly in is increasing demand for high-quality feed the West Country, adversely impacted supplied by modern, efficient feed mills.
livestock farming but excellent forage Construction and commissioning of our growing conditions during a dry spring new feed mill at Zhenlai was completed and summer, as well as a softening to plan in August and good progress is commodity market, led to a period of being made with construction of a mill more stable prices and increased at Rudong, both of which will supply confidence amongst farmers.
UK feed these large, integrated meat processors.
Oversupply Profit at Frontier was ahead of last year.
in the UK poultry market depressed prices Fine weather during the planting seasons during the summer but the market is now saw strong demand for cereal and rape beginning to stabilise.
seed and the growing conditions of a mild Strong growth was achieved by AB Vista winter and warm spring drove demand driven by the success of Quantum Blue, for crop inputs such as fungicides.
its phytase feed enzyme, notably in Latin Encouragingly, the warm dry summer America and the Middle East but also in resulted in an early wheat harvest of the EU where it was launched recently excellent yield and quality.
following its approval by the European Food Safety Authority.
The new Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Agriculture 25 AB AGRI CHINA FRONTIER EFFECTIVE PROCUREMENT In 2014, AB Agri China invested 10m Drones are the latest tool being used by Performance improvement initiatives in building two new, highly automated, SOYL, the precision farming division of being undertaken across the group feed mills with bulk feed capability, one Frontier, to help farmers get the best include improving procurement in Zhenlai in the north of the country and possible output from every hectare.
effectiveness through rigorous category the other near Shanghai.
management and the use of structured The SOYLsight service uses an supplier engagement tools, many of The northern mill has fully segregated unmanned aerial vehicle, or drone, to which are now e-enabled.
monogastric and ruminant feed lines with map fields, enabling growers to look at a capacity of 180,000 tonnes, while the crops under different wavelengths of Where goods and services are sourced southern mill is designed to produce up light, revealing aspects of crop growth from competitive markets, modern to 240,000 tonnes of poultry feed for a that could not previously be measured.
technologies such as electronic tendering leading global meat processor.
Controlled by GPS systems, it flies and auction tools are increasingly being remotely over areas of fields or trials, employed to ensure we achieve the best These investments not only show our and can monitor crop health, identify value for money.
Further benefits have confidence in the future of AB Agri China, weeds, count plants and estimateyields.
been achieved in the procurement of but also our ability to work with major chemicals, packaging, IT, telecoms, customers tohelp them develop their maintenance and logistics by the businesses and at the same timeincrease businesses working with one another our revenues.
to improve their negotiating position, develop supplier relationships or take advantage of synergies that would otherwise not be available.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Ingredients 26 Ingredients comprises a number of businesses that supply a range of ingredients to food and non-food manufacturers.
Together they INGREDIENTS employ 8,000 people in more than 70 plants in 26 countries.
AB Mauri has a global presence in bakers yeast with significant market positions in the Americas, Europe and Asia, and is a technology leader in, and supplier of, bread improvers, dough conditioners and bakery mixes.
The business employs experts Revenue who have an unrivalled knowledge and understanding of the yeast 1,261m and bakery ingredients business, the equipment, the processes and the raw materials.
2013 : 1,360m ABF Ingredients comprises a range of businesses focusing on Actual fx: -7% high-value ingredients for both food and non-food applications.
Constant fx: 4% Ithas established strong market positions in enzymes, lipids, yeastextracts and cereal specialties.
It has manufacturing Adjusted operating profit facilities in Europe and the US.
41m SPI Pharma is a leader in custom formulation solutions for 2013 : 5m pharmaceutical and nutraceutical manufacturers in more than 50countries.
It manufactures and markets antacids, excipients Adjusted operating profit margin anddrug delivery systems for tablets and specialises in drug development services.
It collaborates with customers to deliver 3.3% value-added and cost-effective solutions to theirproblems.
2013 : 0.4% Return on average capital employed 5.8% 2013 : 0.6% Restated Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SUPPORTINGBUSINESSES Much of our business is large scale and highly mechanised but we are also committed to supporting small businesses and artisan bakeries that provide an invaluable service in their communities.
co. uk Strategic report Operating review Ingredients 28 Ingredients revenues were 4% ahead the site of our Meishan yeast factory made in baking enzymes with several of last year at constant currency but in Guangzhou City is to be redeveloped new products launched during the year with most of these businesses being by the local government, the factory and, following a series of successful trials located overseas, the strengthening has been closed and provision for the in the pulp and paper industry, a number of sterling resulted in a decline of 7% small associated cost has been made.
of mills have converted to the use of at actual rates.
Profit recovery was Customer requirements will be met enzymes to reduce costs and lessen substantial, driven by much stronger from our other factories in China.
The next trading from AB Mauri and the benefit phase of expansion at the enzymes In January, AB Mauri completed the from the non-recurrence of last years manufacturing facility in Finland is under acquisition of a small bakery ingredients restructuring and accelerated way.
The closure of the yeast extracts business operating across western depreciation charges.
plant in China, for which provision was Europe which offers craft and industrial made last year end, was well managed AB Mauri made progress in all of its customers a range of high-quality and profit benefited from the transfer of regions and in both yeast and bakery bakery ingredients.
Its integration with production to lower cost facilities ingredients.
Good revenue growth was our existing operations will broaden elsewhere in the group.
The new cereal achieved in South America where, in a our product offering and our ability to extrusions factory in the US, at Evansville, very competitive market, cost inflation respond to customer needs in a number Indiana, is now in production, providing was either recovered through pricing or of key markets.
increased capacity to meet the growing offset by improvements in efficiency.
At ABF Ingredients, good growth was demand both for extruded cereal products Higher volumes and a focus on business achieved in extruded cereals in the US and AB Vistas granulated feed products.
development drove growth in North and in speciality ingredients which America and the new yeast factory in In view of the complementary product provide enhanced functionality when Mexico is now supplying the markets portfolios and common customer base, incorporated into pharmaceutical of North and Central America.
In China, the Australian and New Zealand yeast formulations.
Further progress was and bakery ingredients businesses of AB Mauri have been integrated with the flour milling business of George Weston Foods in Australia.
This will reduce overheads and allow the combined business to bring its technologies to market more effectively.
Reflecting this change, the results of the Australian milling business, which were previously included within the Grocery segment, are now included within the Ingredients AB Mauri achieved a strong turnaround segment.
The comparative results for 2013 have been restated resulting in 272m of sales and 4m of operating from the challenges of recent years profit being transferred from Grocery to Ingredients.
with the promise of further improvement to come.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Ingredients 29 ABITEC AB ENZYMES PGP INTERNATIONAL ABITEC manufactures a wide range Our enzymes are used in a variety of The development of a new specialty of functional excipients for the ways by a range of different industries: ingredients production unit in the US, pharmaceutical industry.
These in baking they are used to improve at Evansville, Indiana, shows the value excipients are critical components in texture, extend shelf-life and replace of collaboration.
drug formulations and are used in emulsifiers: and in beverages and food Cereals ingredients specialist PGP various dosage forms including soft-gel specialities they are used to improve International was running out of capacity capsules and transdermal products.
yields in the processing of fruits, grains at its two existing locations and identified As drug technology advances, so must and proteins.
In the pulp and paper a need for an additional site in the the delivery systems that enable the industry more and more mills have Mid-West, US.
Animal feed supplement body to absorb the active ingredients.
recognised the economic and producer AB Vista, needed another The manufacturing processes to produce environmental benefits of using enzymes co-packer as it too was running out of these excipients must meet the exacting in their manufacturing process by granulation capacity for its flagship standards of the international reducing the use of chemicals in the product, Quantum Blue.
In the field of could justify the capital investment for detergents, enzymes have been ABITEC has world-class technical, a stand-alone facility but by coming developed to reduce colour fading when scientific, regulatory, and manufacturing together they were able to prepare a washing garments.
To position the business to be business case for sharing one facility have developed enzymes for the farming able to assist pharmaceutical customers between them that made economic industry that enhance the absorption by in their delivery of the next generation and good business sense.
livestock of the nutrients in animal feed, of drug formulations, we have embarked and Quantum Blue has become our most By working closely together, the new site on a three-year project to expand and successful new product for many years.
was up and running and selling product upgrade our manufacturing facility at within 14 months.
Foundations have been laid for the factory extension and the new facility will enhance our capabilities and keep the business at the forefront of technology.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Retail 30 Primark is one of the largest clothing retailers in Europe.
It has 278 stores and employs 54,000 people in the UK, Republic of RETAIL Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and France.
It was founded in June 1969 in the Republic of Ireland where it continues to trade as Penneys.
Primarks organic growth has been achieved through a combination of like-for-like growth and increasing selling Revenue space.
The like-for-like growth reflects investment in buying, 4,950m merchandising and our success in constantly refreshing the stores to ensure they remain exciting places to shop.
The increase in 2013: 4,273m selling space has been driven by capital investment in freehold Actual fx: 16% and leasehold properties as they have become available, first on the high streets of the UK and Ireland, and more recently on the Constant fx: 17% high streets and in the shopping centres of continental Europe.
Adjusted operating profit 2006 saw Primarks first foray into continental Europe with the opening of a store in Madrid and it now operates from more than 662m 10 million sq ft of selling space across nine countries.
2013 : 513m With a unique combination of the latest fashion and lean Actual fx: 29% operations, Primark offers customers quality, up-to-the-minute Constant fx: 30% designs at value-for-money prices.
Buying and merchandising teams travel internationally to source and buy garments that best Adjusted operating reflect each seasons key fashion trends.
Primarks range includes profit margin womenswear, lingerie, childrenswear, menswear, footwear, 13.4% accessories, hosiery and homeware.
2013 : 12.0% Return on average capital employed 33.2% 2013 : 26.0% Restated Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STYLE TRAVELS ABF has supported the development of an international fashion brand now as popular in continental Europe as it is in the UK and Ireland.
We have leveraged our local market insights and relationships to help Primark continue its international development.
co. uk SETTING TRENDS We aim to spot future trends and bring them to market quickly and affordably.
This doesnt just apply to high fashion but increasingly to menswear, childrenswear, accessories, sportswear and even homeware.
co. uk Strategic report Operating review Retail Sales at Primark were 17% ahead for its competitors.
Primarks total 33 of last year at constant currency.
commitment amounts to US$12m, of This excellent result was driven by which US$7m was provided in last years an increase in retail selling space, results and US$5m has been charged like-for-like sales growth of 4%, and this year.
superior sales densities in the new The safety of the staff employed by our stores.
The year was characterised suppliers is a high priority.
We have now by success for our autumn winter and undertaken structural assessments of all spring summer ranges.
Sales over the of our supplier factories in Bangladesh.
Christmas period were excellent and We further strengthened our in-country were boosted in the third quarter by teams of ethical trading specialists who warm weather, especially in the are critical in supporting sustainable spring and early summer.
We began improvements within supplier factories, trading in France in December last and providing greater visibility across the year and sales across all five stores supply chain.
We conducted 2,058 audits have been exceptional.
Eight years in the last calendar year, and ethical trade on from our initial entry into Iberia, training continues to be provided to every this years like-for-like growth new Primark employee.
We intend to achieved by our Spanish stores extend our programme of structural was particularly strong.
assessments to include factories The adjusted operating profit margin in producing for us outside Bangladesh.
the first half was higher than last year The pace of selling space expansion reflecting the benefit of warehouse and quickened further this year with the gross distribution efficiencies and lower freight addition of 1.4 million sq ft. We relocated rates.
These benefits continued in the three stores, extended three stores and second half and, with strong trading over opened in 25 new locations.
It is perhaps the summer resulting in a lower level of worth putting this growth into context markdowns, the margin for the full year in the year 2000 when we opened our reached 13.4%.
This lower level of 100th store after 31 years of trading, the markdowns was a consequence of entire estate was just 1.4 million sq ft and a strengthening of our buying and now, 14 years later, the estate is seven merchandising teams and the success times larger.
This year saw the entry of of our seasonal range.
Primark into France where we now have In the immediate aftermath of last years five stores: Marseille, Dijon and three in collapse of Rana Plaza in Bangladesh, the suburbs of Paris.
We closed seven Primark committed to meeting its smaller stores, primarily where larger, responsibilities in full and to paying better located, premises became long-term compensation to the workers available in the same city, resulting in a employed by its supplier or their net increase in selling space of 1.2 million dependants.
We began making these sq ft.
This brings our total estate to long-term payments in March 2014 and, 278 stores and 10.2 million sq ft at the throughout the process, we have financial year end.
Primark also paid short-term aid to the families of all the workers employed at Rana Plaza, most of whom were making clothes Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Retail 34 Responding to the increasing scale of density and which benefit from high levels our business in continental Europe, we of existing customer footfall.
Our strategy SPORTS AND LEISURE doubled the size of our warehouse in is to generate interest in, and awareness Torija, Spain this summer and the of, the Primark brand.
A lease for some Mnchengladbach warehouse in 70,000 sq ft of selling space at Germany, which services the stores in Downtown Crossing in the heart of northern Europe, is being extended by Boston, Massachusetts was signed in 60% and will become fully operational April and we expect this store to open in early in 2015. late 2015.
We have subsequently signed the lease of a further seven stores in this We have a very strong pipeline of new region including an 80,000 sq ft store in stores in Europe extending over a number the King of Prussia shopping mall in of years.
We have already opened five Pennsylvania, one of the busiest in the new stores since the year end: one in US.
We intend that all eight stores will be Portugal, two in the Netherlands and two trading from 0.5 million sq ft by late 2016. in Germany, with a further five scheduled These stores will be supported by leased to open before Christmas including a warehousing.
relocation in Northampton to a store more Sportswear is one of the biggest growth than three times the size.
We expect the areas of the business.
increase in selling space for the financial year to be a little less than 1.0 million sq ft, The introduction of more technical fabrics to be followed in the autumn of 2015 by a and products means that we now offer a strong programme of European openings.
credible sports range that stands up well against the competition.
At the same time We have announced that, after extensive we are maintaining our credentials for research, we have decided to take fashionable street-wear alternatives and Primark to consumers in the north-east core workout ranges at low entry price of the US.
We have chosen stores which points extending the offering across all are located close to areas of high urban departments with co-ordinated ranges consisting of matching clothing, footwear, accessories, underwear and hosiery.
Following the success of the ladies and mens ranges, we have turned our attention to childrenswear for Autumn Winter 2015.
We have a very strong pipeline of new stores in Europe and, after extensive research, we have decided to take the Primark concept to consumers in the north-east of the US.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Operating review Retail Store expansion by region Northern Continental Republic of UK Iberia Europe Ireland Total sq ft sq ft sq ft sq ft sq ft 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores September 2013 5,760 161 1,330 41 880 17 1,030 38 9,000 257 Change in year 280 3 240 6 680 13 1 1,200 21 September 2014 6,040 164 1,570 47 1,560 30 1,030 37 10,200 278 5% 18% 77% 13% 35 PRIMARK.
COM BACK OF HOUSE NEW STORE OPENINGS: France Spain Dijon Albacete Marseille Cartagena Paris Creteil SC Fuengirola Paris OParinor Huelva Paris VLG Quartz Logrono Madrid Plenilunio UK Roquetas fide Mar Bath Tenerife Canterbury Cardiff Germany Crawley Berlin Leeds Trinity Alexanderplatz Warrington Cologne Dusseldorf Primark.
com was launched in October Over the past three years we have The Netherlands 2013 and has since been rolled out in local transformed our customer-facing store Eindhoven Portugal languages to each of our countries of design but our own Back of House Enschede Lisbon operation.
The site now reaches almost working environment had stood still.
Nijmegen Austria one million people and is a showcase for Zoetermeer Its typical in retail to think: Why invest Vienna the brand, its price message and its in Back of House?
It wont make any fashion credentials.
But we dont believe thats Primania section, which makes heroes true.
of our customers, receives 300,000 visits every week.
Following a pilot in our Leeds Trinity RELOCATIONS OR CLOSURES: store in December 2013, we are Along with the fashion messages, we Spain now investing in creating a motivating have introduced a new Our Ethics area La Coruna work environment.
com which tackles some of Madrid Plenilunio the more common questions asked of And the effect has been dramatic.
Scores Zaragoza the brand, its sourcing and supply chain in staff feedback surveys are up to 24% UK in clear, bite-sized info graphics.
higher on areas like Communication and Cardiff Teamwork compared with the Primark We have also embraced social media the Crawley average.
The impact has also improved environment that many of our customers Leytonstone productivity.
For example: live and breathe sharing campaign Republic of Ireland imagery and videos with a fan base of wi-fi throughout has made it easier for Dundalk over four million followers, generating key tasks to be carried out on-the-go: huge engagement and awareness.
paid absence levels are markedly lower: and the new open-plan Back of House environment means more efficiency and collaboration, with staff briefings and inductions taking a third less time meaning more time on the shop floor.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
