Strategic Report Operating review We seek to deliver clinical excellence as efficiently as possible.
To do this, we listen to all our customers patients, consultants, GPs, insurers, commissioners, to our staff and to our suppliers.
Our new operations directors PERFORMANCE IN 2014 Spire Southampton Hospital was chosen to Rob Anderson Together with clinical indicators, we monitor be part of the pilot programme for the new our performance through a range of regular style of CQC inspection in October 2014.
The surveys of our patients, consultants, GPs hospital received a detailed report, which and staff.
was published on the CQC website, but, as it was part of the pilot, it was not officially Patient satisfaction levels continued to rated as per the CQC recommendations increase in 2014, overall quality of service reinspection is due to take place in 2015. rated excellent and very good rose 1% to 93% and the proportion of patients Healthcare Inspectorate Wales inspected who would definitely or be very likely our two Welsh hospitals Cardiff and Yale to recommend Spire to their friends in 2014.
Both were approved with only Karen Newton and family also rose 1% to 88%.
The proportion of consultants who Healthcare Improvement Scotland inspected believe that our hospitals go out of their our Murrayfield and Shawfair Park hospitals way to make a difference to their working grades achieved were six outcomes in relationship remained at 96% and those who the very good category and four in the would be very or fairly likely to choose a good category.
Spire hospital for their own treatment was OPERATIONAL EXPANSION constant at 94%.
In a year that saw the acquisition of Surveyed in April 2014, the proportion of St Anthonys Hospital, the opening of Paul OConor GPs who rated their satisfaction with Spires Bristols Specialist Care Centre, new theatres service as excellent or very good dipped in Worcester and Harpenden, and the 1% to 90%, while the ease of referring opening of the cardiac catheterisation lab patients to Spire remained at 99%.
in Cardiff, operational challenges centred on recruitment, staffing and supply chain Our 2014 Staff Engagement Survey attracted integration.
It is pleasing to report that a 74% response rate.
The response rate was all these facilities are operating ahead impacted slightly by the introduction of our of expectations and that the integration new Staff Culture survey, which ran at the of Spire St Anthonys Hospital is same time.
Nicola Amery Further details of Staff Engagement Survey More details on Spire St Anthonys Hospital can be found in Our People, the section can be found on pages 10 and 11, on the that follows this review, on page 42.
Specialist Care Centre on pages 22 and 23 REGULATORY COMPLIANCE and on the expansion of Spire Harpenden During 2014, there were Care Quality Hospital on pages 36 and 37.
Commission CQC standard inspections IMPROVING OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY at 18 of our locations in England and all Balancing the advantages of our national standards have since been met.
scale and reach with the requirements of individual, local hospital accountability, we seek to maximise margins through operational efficiency.
40 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Theatre utilisation is a key performance During 2015, SAP enhancements will Through the Spire supply chain, we indicator.
While theatre use is demandbe largely targeted at improving patient work as efficiently as possible to drive driven, sharing operational best practice experience by the implementation of CRM cost savings throughout the business.
Average utilisation and the expansion of the current direct Mathew Mason increased to 64% from 61% across all our booking capability for insurers and self-pay Head of Supply Chain hospitals in 2014 based on maximum patients.
There is also a major Purchase 2 & Purchasing central 2,850 hours per year, i. e. 10 hours per Pay initiative, which, it is hoped, will produce weekday and seven hours per Saturday, major cost savings by improving the 250 weekdays and 50 Saturdays per year.
management of stock across the business and a further initiative to provide automated Scope for further improvement remains NHS discharge information for GPs.
some 14 of our hospitals are currently running below 60% utilisation.
We continuously seek to improve our engineering governance and compliance Throughout 2014, we continued to focus on processes across our facilities.
Estates and our supply chain and maximising efficiencies engineering audits, including feedback that support improving patient care.
Mat oversees all aspects of Spires reports covering hard facilities management purchasing operations a world of Our in-house procurement and supply chain services, were completed at all hospitals quality, efficiency and cost savings for model is based at our in NDC in Droitwich.
during 2014, helping to ensure that all everything, from surgical gloves to highly In 2014, we delivered over 1.2 million product hospitals are operating in line with Spire complex MRIs, CT scanners and LinAcs.
lines to our hospitals with a value of around policy and discharging their statutory 50 million.
The central procurement team responsibilities.
Its Mats job to design and develop continues to generate cost savings.
corporate supply chain and purchasing We monitor and prioritise investment in strategies and, then, implement them One aspect of our supply chain and the upgrade of our infrastructure through across all areas of the business and procurement improvement is the remedial works highlighted in these throughout the supply chain, right development and supply from the NDC compliance audits, recorded on our Property down to our central warehouse of hospital-specific medical consumable Risk Management system PRisM.
procedure packs that contain all the analysis of hospital equipment maintenance medical consumables required for specific and replacement schedules aids patient Mat and his team of specialist buyers procedures.
In addition to specification safety and provides cost-saving work closely with key clinicians and modifications and negotiated component opportunities for capital maintenance hospital users to increase efficiency cost savings, bespoke clinical procedure and planned replacement.
and provide better value for patients.
kits meet the exact requirement of each They are constantly looking to balance All of these operational enhancements Spire hospital, enabling faster response and improvements in our in-house supply support a closer focus on cashflow procedure set-up times, improving infection chain, reducing stock holding and freeing throughout the business.
This was control and reducing waste and packaging.
working capital, with optimum availability.
emphasised in 2014 and is an area During 2015, we plan to link the supply of of continued focus in 2015. clinical procedure kits to our SAP enterprise 2015 PRIORITIES resource planning system.
This will be part We are working to develop our recruitment of ongoing developments within our IT DISTRIBUTION OF THEATRE UTILISATION and retention strategies.
Further details 1,2 offering, as we further embed SAP across BY HOSPITAL of our Human Resources approach can the supply chain.
be found in the section on Our People We began rolling out our SAP system in that follows this review, on page 42.
2012 and had fully implemented it across all 64% The development and opening of our new platforms by April 2013.
In 2014, we achieved hospitals in Manchester and Nottingham, Average utilisation full NHS compliance and accreditation for during 20162017, will require, not only the integration and use on Choose and Book.
7 Less than 50% recruitment of additional staff, but also the The benefit of an integrated patient, support of our Procurement and Stock 7 50 60% financial and warehousing supply chain Management teams throughout next year.
and stock control system, which our 12 60 70% The same will be true for our planned new staff and consultants find easy to use, Specialist Care Centre in Chelmsford and 8 70 80% is being seen in improved management other sites that will follow, as we roll out information, cost savings and streamlined 3 80 90% our radiotherapy services across the country.
1 90 100% Rob Roger Chief Executive Officer Source: Company information 1 M anagement assumes theatres can be utilised 2,850 hours per year 10 hours per weekday and seven hours per Saturday, totalling 250 weekdays and 50 Saturdays per year.
2 I ncludes one joint theatre utilisation rate for Murrayfield and Shawfair hospitals.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 41
