34 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance Operating review Steel division The Steel production process working closely with our customers to Providing Flow Control and and Vesuvius develop customised refractory systems, Advanced Refractories solutions services and technologies that enable them The two product lines that comprise the for the global steel industry.
Steel division are Steel Flow Control and Advanced Refractories.
Vesuvius also supplies the steel industry Steel revenue m and other process industries with advanced Our Flow Control products are used 981.4m refractory materials used for lining vessels extensively in the continuous casting process.
such as blast furnaces, ladles and tundishes to This process enables steel originated in a -3.5% enable them to withstand high temperatures blast furnace or electric arc furnace to be 2014 981.4 and or corrosive attack.
These refractory cast directly into slabs or blooms without lining materials may be supplied in the form of 2013 1,017.5 interruption, while remaining protected powder mixes, which are spray-applied or cast 2012 1,017.3 from the atmosphere when passing through onto the vessels to be lined monolithics or the production process.
Avoiding this in pre-cast shapes and bricks.
atmospheric contact significantly reduces Steel trading profit m contamination levels in the steel.
Vesuvius Vesuvius has developed close, collaborative products have a short service life often a relationships with customers and, due to the 96.4m matter of a few hours due to the significant specialised nature of our products and the wear caused by the high temperature, high volume in which they are consumed, 8.5% high thermal cycling and the erosive and has developed a global network closely 2014 96.4 corrosive environment in which they operate.
Through 2013 88.7 The quality of our products impacts both this network we develop customised 2012 83.1 on the quality of the finished metal being refractory systems, services and technologies produced and on the productivity, profitability that enable our customers to enhance and safety of the customers process.
Steel return on sales % Our products represent a relatively small Customers of the Steel division are principally 9.8% proportion of the input costs of our customers steel producers and manufacturers of steel e. g. less than 1% for a steel producer production equipment.
In addition, we supply 109bps but their performance is critical to their other high temperature industries such as 2014 9.8 production processes.
Therefore, customers petrochemicals and cement, and therefore demand high quality and consistent products around 10% to 15% of revenues in the 2013 8.7 for these most demanding of applications.
Steel division arise from non steel-related 2012 8.2 Vesuvius is a global leader in molten metal process industries supplied by the Advanced flow engineering and we achieve this by Refractories product line.
Turbulence modelling Flow Turbulence modelling Vesuvius has invested in computer simulation and water-modelling capabilities to predict the flow of steel in the continuous casting process Impact pad Turbostop Molten metal Turbulence Our perfOrmance 35 As both Flow Control and Advanced Steel Flow control We continue to develop our dispersed Refractories products are consumables, manufacturing base, across which we are able steel production volumes are the critical to deploy our significant process improvement driver of demand for the Vesuvius Steel expertise.
This, together with investments division.
This is particularly true in the made in process technology, has enhanced production of higher quality steels where both our productivity and product quality.
the use of our highly technical products in The introduction of the Lean process model the enclosed continuous casting process in our manufacturing locations continues to are most valuable.
Steel producers are improve margins by offsetting inflationary continually striving to enhance their pressures.
For example, we estimate that processes to improve production through 4m was saved in 2014 as a result of Lean less downtime, to reduce labour costs, to In a year with positive revenue initiatives in our Flow Control product line.
increase steel quality, reduce energy usage, During the year we gave particular focus to from all our regions we and reduce reworking through thinner improved process yields, energy efficiency slab casting.
As a consequence they make continued to invest in innovation and productivity and we remain committed increasing use of our solutions helping them and high technology solutions to driving efficiencies within our supply chain to achieve better productivity, quality and and logistics operations, making use of our for customers.
Hence our sales progress at a higher network of Lean engineers.
growth rate than steel production volumes.
chris abbott President, Flow Control New technologies drive value for our The global steel market in 2014 Financial performance in 2014 Steel Flow customers In order to meet our customers Control reported revenues of 544.8m According to the World Steel Association demands, as indicated by our KPI on page for 2014 representing a 2.0% decrease global steel production in 2014 increased 33, we undertake a programme of research on the previous year, due to currency by approximately 1.1% compared with the & development that is unparalleled within market headwinds.
On an underlying basis previous year.
The overall market growth our industry, and which leverages the revenue was up by 4.3% on 2013 levels.
was driven mainly by increased production breadth of our experience and global reach.
All of our operating regions made a positive in the European Union 1.8%, North Our research efforts are focused on a small contribution to revenue growth, including America 2.0%, and China 0.9%.
These number of centres of excellence, allowing those which experienced declining steel increases were partially offset by output us to concentrate knowledge for maximum production.
We were able to overcome declines seen in Ukraine 17.1% and South effectiveness.
Product development any underlying market weakness through America 1.4%.
takes place in parallel at development the strength of our customer relationships centres established in all major markets, and the increasing penetration of our a geographical spread that allows our product offering.
development teams to get closer to our customers and to address their immediate We maintain tight control of costs to ensure requirements in a timely fashion.
our prices are competitive for the high levels of quality we deliver to our customers.
Steel Flow control products Isostatically pressed Extruded clay Temperature Purging systems and graphite product measurement control devices alumina graphite ranges regulating steel flow VISO VaPEX accumetrix R. a. D. a. R. Robotic Tube changer A robotic arm changes a pre-heated tundish shroud.
Trademark s of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries 36 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance Operating review Steel division continued In 2014 we expanded our Flow Control creating value through specialised This bespoke solution has been made possible Systems facility in Ghlin, Belgium, whilst technical services In addition to our through combining the knowledge and also increasing the resources allocated to broad range of Flow Control products, we expertise of Vesuvius with the synergistic developing mechatronic solutions for the are developing a growing revenue stream capabilities of AVEMIS, ECIL Met Tec, SERT steel industry.
In addition, we initiated from technical and advisory services to Metal and Metallurgica.
investment in a new, state-of-the-art the steelmaking industry.
Our investment We will continue to enrich our technical research facility in Pittsburgh, USA, which in leading edge modelling and simulation services offering in the medium term, is due to be completed in early 2016. capabilities, combined with our intimate notably through providing our most understanding of our customers processes, All our Flow Control products are advanced customers in the metal casting means we are ideally placed to create bespoke developed to create value for our customers field with decision critical, process enhancing systems and refractory designs that will by improving the efficiency of their information.
This will be delivered through optimise the flow of molten metal within manufacturing processes and the quality a range of data capture and interpretation the tundish and mould.
new products and solutions underline this Our Technical Services capabilities have been Strategies to maintain our future growth philosophy, notably our innovative technical significantly enhanced by the acquisitions Future business growth momentum will solutions around the continuous caster.
in recent years of SERT Metal, AVEMIS primarily come from two areas: The latest robot compatible Tundish Tube and Metallurgica.
All are now integrated Changer product code SEM3085 and within our organisation, while 2014 saw Marketing our innovative, high value process the initial variants in our new Robotic Casting the purchase of ECIL Met Tec, which further enhancing products and services Technology range continue to perform well, demonstrates the opportunities that can Further penetrating developing markets.
with the first 100% robotic installation now be captured through the acquisition of fully operational in Korea.
The success of our business will rely on our ability to market the innovations we develop This solution will be further enhanced in 2015 We are developing new capabilities to to the wider audience of customers we with the installation of robotic capability on monitor flow characteristics at various points believe can benefit from them.
On a practical the Ladle Operating Platform, which will in the steel casting process, together with level, this requires investment in industrial integrate oxygen lancing, temperature data feedback systems and control schemes marketing and value capture analysis.
In 2014 and gas measurement, tundish powder for real-time optimal flow control throughout we strengthened our industrial marketing feeding and refractory installation.
Further the entire casting sequence.
A number of capabilities by creating a Solutions Group significant contracts for SEM3085 have solutions incorporating these capabilities have that uniquely combines steelmaking process been secured in China, Europe, India and commenced alpha testing with customers knowledge, refractory modelling and South America setting the scene for future and are due to be launched later this year.
expertise in simulation and equipment.
In addition, 2015 will see the installation at a have also introduced a bespoke customer customers site of a truly unique solution that management tool that will allow us to incorporates data capture, process monitoring better understand, quantify and target and control, robotics, gas and temperature the development of our unique, valuemeasurement, refractory systems and creating solutions.
SEm3085 Tube changer A Tube Changer in operation.
Our perfOrmance 37 capturing growth in developing advanced Refractories Our revenue performance reflects the results markets The emerging markets are large of a restructuring that has taken place within producers and consumers of steel.
For the division in recent years.
This has involved example, Asia now accounts for some 68% divesting non-core activities and realigning of world steel production, compared with the business.
To support our growth This process continues to be implemented, in these markets we maintain a strong with a focus on improving business regional manufacturing capability which, performance by expanding our efforts in combined with local product development value selling, training, brand and product centres, places us within easy reach of our rationalisation, together with exiting lowdeveloping market customers.
margin or higher risk activities.
In 2014 we successfully completed We continue to focus our At the beginning of 2014, Advanced commissioning and production ramp-up portfolio, invest in R&D and Refractories embarked upon a major effort of a new manufacturing facility in Brazil, support growth initiatives in to implement the latest advanced quality designed to improve the efficiency of planning techniques in our production developing markets.
The plant now facilities as part of the roll out of our wider enables us to make greater use of local Tanmay Ganguly President, Lean initiative.
This is already having a positive raw materials, shortening lead times, Advanced Refractories impact on margins.
reducing working capital requirements and improving production flexibility.
Financial performance in 2014 Advanced We are investing in research & development Refractories reported revenues for 2014 on a regional basis in China, India and Eastern In 2015 we will further invest in the totalling 436.6m, a decrease of 5.5% Europe, together with adding personnel and expansion of our manufacturing footprint compared with 2013.
On an underlying basis equipment in the Middle East.
Our aim is to for isostatic pressing in China, together the year-on-year revenue increase was 4.5%.
support growth initiatives in the emerging with investing in additional mould flux Financial performance improved globally, markets, capitalising on the investments manufacturing capacity in India.
despite tough trading conditions in certain that were made in production facilities markets notably in Eastern Europe during 2013. which were impacted by political unrest.
advanced Refractories products Wet spray and dry vibratable Alumino-silicate and magnesia Ingot heading Anydrous tap monolithic working linings carbon bricks Products hole clay plastics BaSILITE SILLmaX PROFaX SURTaP BaSIVIBE STEIN LITEFaX KINGTaP TUNDEX SUPERmaG STELOTOL Alumino-silicate monolithic Precast monolithic refractories including Monolithic magnesia gunning repair materials.
plastics, forming, gunning precast ladle bottoms and tundish Refractory monitoring, automated application equipment and shotcrete repair castables furniture systems and installation services.
Insulating fibre composites cRITERION SUPER #3000 LaVaGaRD BaSIGUN SURGUN aLUGaRD aLUGaRD GUNDOL BLU-Ram HYDRa-maX NUmaX FOScaST LITHOGaRD ELBY cERGUN TURBOSTOP Trademark s of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries 38 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance Operating Review Steel Division continued As our trading environment remains very The strength of our customer relationships a leader in refractory technology In competitive, we continue to focus on also derives from proximity: our teams are 2014 we made progress with a number of optimising cost and quality within our supply located close to our customers and our people technological developments in line with chain.
Our global purchasing organisation are frequently deployed at our customers Group strategy.
They included: deals only with approved suppliers, and is sites, providing on-the-spot help and advice.
A further expansion of our best-in-class constantly seeking opportunities to combine Innovative solutions for our customers Gard family of products, notably reliably high quality raw materials with longValue creation for customers is a fundamental in aluminium Alugard and cement term price stability.
Dual sourcing of materials, performance driver for the Advanced Lithogard markets while maintaining consistent quality, remains Refractories business.
Enhanced innovation an active ongoing initiative.
Utilisation of newly-acquired laser delivery is central to this process: as such we technology from Process Metrix for We also use our developing technical services have introduced a fully integrated innovation several total ladle contracts, enhancing offering to differentiate us from low-tech delivery system that combines idea generation performance and improving the clarity commodity suppliers with limited technical ideation, our advanced, bespoke customer of future technology requirements support.
The acquisition in 2014 of Process management tool and our reinvigorated new Metrix together with ongoing projects product introduction process.
Development and testing of a new range relating to intelligent camera systems and of brick products for steel ladles.
These In addition, our worldwide research & temperature measurement will further enhance the thermal behaviour of the development effort is now organised under enhance our ability to expand and broaden refractory, reduce the potential for carbon a single global manager, with closer links to our technical solutions into all metallurgical pick-up and improve overall refractory life our marketing and technology, sales and segments.
Through this structure Further development of our automated a trusted partner Advanced Refractories we can quickly define and prioritise innovative robotic application, which is deployed to focuses on providing best-in-class products refractory and process improvements, then ensure safe and consistent application of and application equipment supported by deliver them to our customers at a much our advanced refractories in the tundish highly experienced and trained technical faster pace.
Several key innovations have Expansion of the Elby, our Engineered personnel.
The business enjoys numerous already reached the latter stages of this Ladle Bottom Yield programme, into South total material supply contracts, in which the new process.
Investments in future customer hands over its entire refractory Elby production capacity are planned as needs to Vesuvius, and we in turn take full aresult.
responsibility for cost and consistency.
Elby ladle bottom Process metrix in service laser technology We are expanding Following our acquisition our Elby production of Process Metrix in programme into South 2014 we are using laser America and Asia.
technology in several customers plants.
High Ladle resolution laser Trademark s of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries
