Our perfOrmance 39 Operating review Foundry division Vesuvius in the foundry industry The global foundry industry in 2014 The foundry market was significantly impacted Our Foundry division trades under the by difficulties within the mining industry, Foseco brand, a world-renowned name which resulted from the general decline in that has become a by-word for reliability, commodity and precious metal prices.
The division generates saw reduced investment in all mining, notably approximately one-third of total Group in the USA, Brazil, Indonesia and Australia, revenue and is an acknowledged world leader with delays to new projects resulting in in the supply of consumable products and reduced activity for foundries producing associated services to the foundry industry.
castings for the mining process as well Some 40% of worldwide castings and a In a year of mixed end-markets as those used for related equipment similar percentage of the revenue for the and vehicles.
we continued our strategic Foundry division are produced for the vehicle focus on marketing and sector, comprising light vehicles passenger The light vehicle i. e. passenger cars and cars and light trucks and heavy trucks.
light trucks industry picked up in 2014, with technology, investment in R&D Other end-markets for foundry castings global production up by 2.2% year-on-year.
and development of high quality include machinery for the construction, Light vehicle production in Northern Europe production facilities.
agriculture and mining industries, power trended slightly above average at 2.3% and Glenn cowie President, Foundry generation equipment, railroad and general NAFTA light vehicle and heavy truck output engineering.
Our customers include the increased by 4.7% and 16.7% respectively.
worlds major automotive OEMs, truck However, South America continued to Foundry revenue m producers and manufacturers of construction, struggle, particularly Brazil, which recorded 463.0m railroad and mining equipment.
Whilst the production decreases of 20% for light products Foseco supplies typically represent vehicles and 14.7% for heavy vehicles.
-6.1% less than 5% of a foundrys production cost, 2014 463.0 they contribute significantly to improving both product quality and manufacturing efficiency, 2013 493.0 while reducing the environmental impact of 2012 530.2 the casting process.
Foundry trading profit m 46.4m -9.5% 2014 46.4 2013 51.3 2012 48.2 Foundry return on sales % 10% Foundry products -35bps Feeder Ceramic Refractory coatings for Aluminium sleeves foam filters moulds and cores metallurgical control 2014 10.0 FEEDEX RHEOTEc FDU 2013 10.4 SEDEX KaLmINEX HOLcOTE mTS SIVEX 2012 9.1 KaLmIN ISOmOL cOVERaL STELEX Process for the Crucibles for the production of melting and holding of ductile iron non ferrous alloys INITEK DIamaNT KING-caRB TERcOD Trademark s of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries 40 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance Operating review Foundry division continued On a global basis, heavy truck and railroad We achieved a solid performance in North Construction of phase one of a new production decreased by a combined 2.1% America, benefiting from increased light manufacturing plant for foundry products in against 2013 levels, with the railroad industry vehicle and truck production of 4.7% and Changshu, China was completed during the being another that suffered due to reduced 16.7% respectively.
However, this was offset year and was fully operational from Q4 2014. mining activity.
by reduced foundry activity in Brazil which More than 40% of global foundry castings experienced a 20% drop in light vehicle are currently produced in China, so this We also experienced political and economic production and a 14.7% reduction in heavy represents a very important growth market instability in some markets where we vehicle output, and by considerably reduced for us.
In addition, the new R&D facility traditionally experienced good volumes and mining activity, a small but nonetheless located in Enschede, Netherlands was opened margins such as Ukraine, Thailand and Brazil.
in late 2014 to drive product innovation and further growth.
Financial performance in 2014 Underlying Revenue in Europe increased by 3.8%, driven revenue in the Foundry division increased by a 3.8% increase in light vehicle production, Partners in value creation Our business 1.8% year-on-year, and underlying and despite lacklustre truck production strategy, which we call Performance profitability was maintained as a result especially in Northern Europe which saw Partnership, builds on the Vesuvius business of a series of self-help measures to offset a decrease of 11.1%.
model, and on generating the greatest the marked impact of reduced activity in possible value for our customers, helping traditionally higher margin emerging markets.
In Asia-Pacific, we benefited from 6.1% them deliver higher quality castings and growth in Chinese light vehicle output but enhancing their foundry processes and The worldwide foundry market grew this was offset by a reduction in automotive efficiency.
moderately supported by the progression production in Thailand, the impact of a ban in light vehicle output in North America, on the export of metallic ores from Indonesia As the global foundry industry evolves, this Europe and China.
However, it was affected and continued deterioration of castings approach enables us to capitalise on our deep by the continued reduction of investment activity produced in the Australian mining understanding of customers priorities for spending in the mining sector as well as a industry.
growth and process improvement, as well severe downturn in the auto sector in Brazil as on our excellence in product innovation.
Coupled with the political instability in Ukraine, this affected sales in Brazil, Australia, South Africa, Thailand and Indonesia.
Foundry R&D Researching casting methods and materials at our new stateof-the-art Foundry R&D Centre in Enschede.
Our perfOrmance 41 Our global reach Our worldwide presence Strategies to maintain our future growth a focus on developing markets Potential forms the foundation of our business model.
We commenced and or completed several revenue per customer and per tonne of We embed technical experts at numerous key strategic actions in 2014: castings produced is strongly influenced by customer premises, which allows them to the technical sophistication of the customer, Commissioned our state-of-the-art sleeves identify potential process improvements in the end-market for the casting and the and coatings plants in Changshu, China cooperation with their host customers.
processes used in its production.
These factors tend to correlate with the level of Opened our new, world class research In addition, we have established a network industrial development taking place within & development Centre in Enschede, of technology centres, in which we have each market, plus the corresponding capital Netherlands amassed the expertise to develop solutions investment in the foundry.
Therefore we see that incorporate engineered systems and Undertook a global review of the Foundry significant growth potential in markets where high value consumables.
These solutions are market to inform and challenge how we industrial development continues to gather industrialised by our geographically dispersed react to the actions of competitors momentum, particularly certain parts of manufacturing base, which leverages our Eastern Europe and Asia.
Restructured our global management global expertise whilst being deliberately and Marketing & Technology teams, to located as close as possible to our customers.
As such, we are expanding our network of support our focus on market segmentation technical sales staff and application engineers The net result is that we are able to ensure and the investments weve made in within developing markets, ensuring that all our customers receive solutions that research capability customers there have local access to our high are tailor-made to their specific needs and levels of locally available technical support.
Developed aggressive growth plans for opportunities, supplied on a reliable, just-inNAFTA, focusing on clean steel and new time and competitively priced basis.
market penetration From a Foundry perspective, this model is: Expanded steel filtration capacity in Japan, Resilient to end-market cycles, due to the with new filtration products set for launch flexibility of our diversified manufacturing in 2015. footprint and adjustable cost base Profitable, as it allows value pricing for bespoke products Growth generating, as we can grow markets by creating additional innovative products and solutions.
Foundry Sales T of total market casting 2014 Northern Europe 40 South America Japan 35 NORAM CEME 30 India China 25 20 15 100% 10 5 0 Steel Ductile Iron Aluminium 42 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility Our respOnsibility 43 Section Three Our Responsibility 3 In this section 44 Corporate Responsibility 46 Safety 49 Sustainability 52 Human Resources
