Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 9 Review of operations: Travel Performance 1 Sales Trading profit 477m 73m 2013: 460m 2013: 66m 4% Flat 11% Total sales Like-for-like sales Performance review 2013 14 Travel delivered another strong performance during the year with good cash generation demonstrating the strength of the business 1 model.
Travels trading profit increased by 11 per cent to 73m 2013: 66m as a result of an increase in revenue, further improvement in gross margin and cost efficiencies.
Total revenue in Travel was up four per cent with like-for-like sales flat, reflecting an improvement in passenger numbers and our continued focus on space management and range development.
Gross margin increased by around 100 bps during the year, driven by better buying and active category mix management.
We continue to identify opportunities for growth in Travel.
We are investing in new space while at the same time evolving our offer to meet the changing needs of both our customers and landlords.
Category mix can vary substantially by channel and even by location within a channel, so actively focusing on our category mix management enables us to best meet customer and landlord needs, improve service and efficiency, grow market share and drive margins.
Following investment in our space management systems we are able to better understand the space and category elasticities in our stores and how they change over time.
This has resulted in further changes to our customer offer as we evolve our formats and trial new initiatives in each of our key channels.
In our airport stores we saw like-for-like sales up two per cent.
We have invested in improving store layouts and design by creating product zones and improving navigation, while also allocating additional space to growth areas such as souvenirs, travel accessories and digital and electronic accessories.
In our major airport stores, we have increased the range of phone chargers and battery packs, reflecting the new security regulations for smart phones and tablets.
We have also extended the range and space for other digital and electronic accessories, reflecting the growing market.
Much of this has been done under our own Gadgetshop brand.
In addition, as a result of the growth in overseas passengers through airports such as Heathrow, we have extended our range of souvenirs in those locations.
This includes new ranges, for example, t-shirts, hoodies and an increased range of gift food and pocket money souvenirs.
These types of initiatives demonstrate our continued investment and leading position in the market, which helps us to continue to win new space.
1 Travel trading profit is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
See Notes to the accounts Note 2, Segmental analysis of results on page 62.
WH Smith PLC 10 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Review of operations In Rail, like-for-like sales were down two per cent overall, with London mainline stations flat and regional rail down three per cent.
Customer needs in Rail are quite different to those we see in airports, and our space and category mix management reflect this.
We had positive results from our Food to go trial in Rail stores, with the meal deal promotion proving to be particularly successful.
Following the success of this trial we have extended the Food to go offer into all our key rail, airport and hospital stores across the country.
As we have rolled out our Food to go offer we have upgraded the fabric and layout of a number of Rail stores, for example, Liverpool Street.
Here we have focused on getting the right space and category mix, adjusting the layout to help customer flow and balancing the mix of self and staffed checkouts to optimise queue management at busy periods.
We have established a strong presence in the Hospital channel Similar to the UK Travel business, there is a broad mix of store and continue to expand our store base, with further scope to grow formats internationally, with units ranging from small units in this channel.
Like-for-like sales in Hospitals were up two per hospitals to large units in international airports.
We continue to offer our operating expertise to partners, further progress in our main hubs of Australia, Asia, the Middle such as M&S Simply Food, where there is a mutually beneficial East, India and Europe, and we have now won 165 units, of which opportunity.
During the year, we opened four M&S Simply Food 138 units are open across four channels Air, Rail, Hospitals and units in locations such as Blackpool Hospital and Royal Free Malls.
On 16 October 2014, we announced we had won a further Hospital.
We now have six M&S Simply Food units open, with 15 new units, including four new units in Melbourne Domestic further openings planned.
This now gives us a total of nine units in that airport and In our other channels, including workplaces, like-for-like sales units in the International and Domestic terminals in Bali: units in were flat.
Pudong Airport, Shanghai: and further Fresh Plus cafs in Australia.
In total we won 30 new units in the year.
Additionally, inthe year we acquired a small cards and gift franchisor in We continue to open new space and see Australia, Wild Cards and Gifts, which has 40 franchisees enabling opportunities for further space growth us to offer an additional brand to landlords in Australia and to develop our international wholesaling.
We will continue to grow our international business utilising our In the UK we opened 30 new units during the year including seven different operating models: direct lease, franchise and jointin Air, seven in Rail and eight in Hospitals.
In Air, this included four venture.
Of the 165 units won, 58 per cent are franchise, 34per new units in the new Terminal 2 at Heathrow which incorporates cent are directly-run and the remainder are joint-venture.
all of our latest initiatives on store layout, product zones, category As at 31 August, the Travel business operated from 725 units, mix and use of space as well as our latest efficiency initiatives including motorway service areas, international franchise units such as rear fill chillers andnewspaper stands, which enable and coffee shops.
15 UK units were closed during the year, replenishment from behind the scenes rather than on the shop primarily due to landlord redevelopment and we renewed floor, as well as full use of our self checkouts.
We plan to open a 21contracts and completed 29 refits.
similar number of units in the current year.
Looking forward, we anticipate opening around 20stores each year over the following three years, with around 10each year in hospitals.
While our international business is profitable and growing fast it still remains a small part of our overall business and we see opportunities to grow this business further.
The WHSmith brand and offer continue to be well received by customers and landlords and we have demonstrated that we can add value and deliver improved performance.
Where we have opened new stores, sales per passenger continue to outperform previous incumbents.
