Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 11 Review of operations: High Street Performance 1 Sales Trading profit 684m 58m 2013: 726m 2013: 56m 6 % 5 % 4% Total sales Like-for-like sales Performance review 2013 14 1 High Street delivered a good performance with profit growing by 2m to 58m 2013: 56m, up four per cent on the prior year.
This was achieved by continuing to actively manage our space to optimise our core categories, gross margin growth and tight cost control thereby delivering sustainable profit and good cash generation.
High Street sales were down six per cent in total and down fiveper cent on a like-for-like basis, reflecting our profit focused strategy, the evolving nature of some of our markets and the quality of publishing in the year.
Gross margin improved by around 190 bps, through rebalancing the mix of our business to focus on higher margin categories such as Stationery, better buying terms and improved sourcing and markdown management.
We grew margins in Stationery and Books while the margin in News and Impulse was flat year on year.
Optimal use of space remains key to our strategy.
We consider space as a strategic asset, as we look to maximise profitability in the current year in ways that are sustainable for future years.
We work our space to maximise return on every metre drop in every store through improving margins, reducing costs and driving third party income opportunities, such as the Post Office.
Each individual store has a specific space reconfiguration twice a year driven by detailed space and product elasticity data.
During the year, space changes have included the addition of a further 21Post Offices, giving us 105 in total in our stores: more space for new stationery ranges: and the installation of self-checkouts.
Going forward, we will continue to manage space in this way.
Our strategy to build on our strong position in Stationery remains unchanged.
Our in-house design capabilities for product and packaging: the quality, breadth and depth of our ranges: the ability to source competitively through our Far East sourcing office and our scale enable us to differentiate ourselves in this category.
During the year, we stepped up our focus on new range development, quality and latest design in order to further differentiate the WHSmith stationery offer from that of our competitors.
Stationery has continued to benefit from additional space with range development in areas such as fashion stationery and filing.
As a result of our new ranges, we saw a strong performance over the key back to school period.
1 High Street trading profit is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
See Notes to the accounts Note 2, Segmental analysis of results on page 62.
WH Smith PLC 12 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Review of operations Funkypigeon.
com, our online personalised greetings card and gifting website, continues to grow its profit and performed well over the key seasons in the year.
Following further investment inthe website and apps, we saw increased conversion across alldevices.
Looking forward we continue to see investment opportunities in the website, apps, marketing and customer offerto grow the business further.
On 16 October 2014, we announced our intention to trial a smallnumber of standalone greeting cards stores, branded cardmarket.
In contrast to our existing greeting cards offer, which is at the premium end of the market, these stores will provide customers with a value based proposition in this growing part of the market.
The first stores opened in October 2014 with all stores in relatively low rent, short-term leases in non-prime pitch locations.
In News and Impulse the newspaper and magazine market continues to be challenging but we held our market share with a We have made further progress in the year with our trial of number of successful promotions across key titles.
franchising to local newsagents under the brand WHSmith LOCAL.
In exchange for a franchise fee, the franchisee benefits We continue to develop the stronglyfrom our brand, space management, sourcing and stationery ranges.
We initially trialled the concept with five stores and, growing bookazine category, which following encouraging results, we have extended the trial to nowincludes over 400 titles and helps 30stores.
Cost efficiency remains a core part of our strategy and we focus on all areas of cost in the business.
We have made good progress again this year, delivering cost savings of 14m.
These came from In Books, the market continues to be challenging and vary by right across the business, including the books operating model, category, with the quality of publishing still the biggest driver of more targeted marketing spend and productivity improvements market performance.
Kids book sales have been more resilient in our distribution centres.
We have a number of savings planned than Adult books, helped by the successful Minecraft series, and for the year ahead which include renegotiating marketing we continue to adapt our space in this category to optimise contracts, extending energy efficient lighting to stores back office market dynamics.
Our approach is to focus on areas of market space, and investing in technology to improve operational growth, build on areas of relative strength and drive the overall efficiency and enable more time to be spent on the shop floor.
We net profitability of the category.
An example of this is the recent have identified an additional 11m of new cost savings, taking the improvements to our books operating model which helps us to target to 21m over the next three years.
Ofthese, 11m are deliver margin improvements and efficiency savings.
While the eBooks market continues to see growth, it is evolving 1 The High Street business now operates from 604 stores, which as we had expected with rates of growth and value penetration occupy 2.94m square feet 2013: 3.00m square feet.
eBooks remain a relatively small proportion of the were closed in the year.
consumer books market with the biggest penetration in Fiction.
Over 75 per cent of our book sales are Non-Fiction and Kids, reflecting our core book customers who are lighter, less affluent book buyers.
According to publishers the rate of growth and penetration of eBooks has slowed with value penetration estimated to be around 15 per cent to 18 per cent, with growth closer to 20 per cent than the 100 per cent we have seen in recent years.
Our partnership with Kobo continues to develop with the Kobo shops performing well.
As a result, we have extended our contract with Kobo to 2018.
Asthe focus of eReading moves towards multi-function tablets through apps, our plans with Kobo reflect this.
1 Including branches in Guernsey and Isle of Man.
