Operational Review Weir Minerals Delivering in challenging market conditions 32 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Dean Jenkins Divisional Managing Director Our focus on enhanced service capability and forging ever-stronger relationships with customers helped to deliver a resilient performance in what continue to be challenging end markets.
Key priorities and progress in 2014 Invest in comminution process Global Product Managers in place to lead crushing, grinding and screening initiatives.
knowledge and materials Development of cone crusher range continues, assisted by the acquisition of Trio.
wear technology: Several projects initiated focused on High Pressure Grinding Rolls HPGRs upgrades.
Trials under way for new family of castings with positive early results.
Identify new platforms for potential Acquisition of Trio further extends the product portfolio into the adjacent comminution growth aligned to our core strategy segment of the mill circuit, providing scale and presence in the growing aggregates and competences: end market.
Strong performance from recent acquisitions of R Wales rubber and wear-resistant linings for mining, minerals processing and oil sands industries and Aspir centrifuges.
As part of the Group efficiency review, consolidation of manufacturing sites expected to save 15m.
Reduce lead times and working Achieved significant improvements in lead times and best-cost country sourcing.
capital through global supply Global capacity plan and inventory management system implemented.
chain initiatives: Good progress was made in reducing working capital in North America.
Continue development of Minerals Progress made in development of Gladiator pump for the oil and gas end market, and and Oil & Gas product portfolios in extending the range of swellable packers, using the divisions rubber technologies.
through collaboration and innovation: Collaboration initiatives between Floway, Gabbioneta and Weir Specialty Pumps proceeding well.
A new Gabbioneta pump is available for Minerals to sell in North America.
Help make our customers existing Commenced roll-out of next generation slurry pump range.
operations more efficient by Cost savings and efficiency gains achieved by Anglo American as a result continuous improvement of our core of strategic alliance recognised with Procurement Leaders award.
products, wherever they need us: Signed a Global Framework Agreement with Kinross Gold Corporation.
New service centres opened or planned for Philippines, Mongolia and Russia.
Market drivers Both these trends supported aftermarket Strategic Goals Price declines were experienced across demand with global ore production growing a number of key commodities in 2014, 3% in 2014.
Innovation as increased global supplies of iron ore, coal Collaboration and copper combined with slowing demand Mining sector capital expenditure fell by growth, principally as a result of economic an estimated 17% in 2014.
As a result Value Chain Excellence conditions in China and other emerging there were very few greenfield project Global Capability markets.
Iron ore prices fell by almost 50% opportunities and customers displayed in the year, resulting in a notable impact on caution in proceeding with brownfield brownfield project activity.
Industrial action in South Africa prices fell by 14%, brownfield investment significantly impacted local production remained resilient.
Gold prices were broadly levels, and the outbreak of the Ebola virus flat over the period and remained below also caused disruption in West Africa.
the levels required to drive higher capital In Europe, weak economic conditions investment.
Ore production from existing and geopolitical unrest in Eastern Europe mines continued to increase, supported by impacted activity.
Non-mining end markets the move from construction to full operation also declined with lower project activity of several new mines, particularly in South across power, oil and gas, although oil America, and miners seeking to maximise sands aftermarket demand remained stable.
production from existing sites to partially offset commodity price declines.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 33 Operational Review continued Strategic progress of quotation was maintained.
Although Operating profit The divisions comminution crushing, down year on year, original equipment order grinding and screening strategy advanced trends improved slightly through the year significantly with over 60% growth in order with second half input up 3% compared 226m input and the award of original equipment to the first half, despite the non-recurrence contracts for High Pressure Grinding Rolls of a large HPGR order received in H1.
-7% HPGRs in North America and Europe.
In addition, the acquisition of Trio Engineered Aftermarket orders grew by 6%, at the 2014 226m Products expands the divisions product upper end of original expectations and 2013 243m offering and end market presence represented 69% of total input 2013: 62%.
This was supported by the benefits of a large and growing active installed base, Investment in new product development underlying ore production trends and has continued with a focus on helping our the commissioning of greenfield sites.
Revenue customers achieve their aim of increasing Aftermarket growth of more than 4% was efficiency.
A new vertical slurry pump was achieved in three out of four quarters with launched with retrofit capability for existing Q4 impacted by the cancellation of a large 1,128m customers, enabling upgrades to take place 11m HPGR order, previously booked in Q3.
In addition, the division -4% designed, built and installed the worlds The division continued to make good 2014 1,128m largest mill circuit slurry pump at a mine progress in comminution with input of 49m in Chile.
Slurry pump orders were 2013 1,178m with Anglo American has seen one of the materially lower year on year, reflecting 2012 1,178m divisions key customers achieve immediate market conditions.
Good progress was gains in component life and power-saving, made in growing the valves product line.
In by applying our technology to existing oil sands markets, there was an increase in 2012 and 2013 restated at 2014 average exchange rates.
A second Global Framework demand for barge products and aftermarket Agreement was signed in 2014 with performance was supported by growth from Kinross Gold Corporation.
the R Wales group of companies.
One-off integration and acquisition costs of 1m were incurred in relation to Trio, New service centre facilities were Emerging markets accounted for 47% of largely offsetting its operating contribution in established in Asia-Pacific and Europe, input 2013: 45% with higher activity levels in the period.
Reported operating profit fell by further enhancing our global capability South America and the Middle East offsetting 16% after a 10% foreign exchange headwind and extending the divisions marketthe impact of industrial action in South Africa.
Planning Orders from mining end markets were flat is continuing for a new best-cost campus year on year and accounted for 77% of input Operating margin declined by 50bps to in Malaysia which will include a new 2013: 74%.
Input from non-mining markets 20.1% 2013: 20.6%, reflecting a higher foundry, machine shop and continuous declined by 16% compared to 2013, which mix of lower margin products, increased rubber processing plant.
In oil sands included large orders from coal bed methane investment in the comminution platform markets, there was an increase in demand and wastewater projects which were not and a circa 30bps impact on a constant for our barge products and aftermarket repeated in 2014. currency basis from materially lower performance was supported by growth revenues in Africa and the effects on from the R Wales group of companies Revenue was 4% lower at 1,128m on a the divisions supply chain and operations, which was acquired in early 2013. constant currency basis 2013: 1,178m of direct strike action in the second half.
but with second half revenues showing These adverse factors were somewhat The divisions Value Chain Excellence 6% sequential growth.
Original equipment offset by the benefit of cost reduction initiatives included progress in the rollsales were 17% lower and accounted for and procurement initiatives and a higher out of a best-in-class Enterprise Resource 33% 2013: 38% of divisional revenue.
Planning ERP platform to increase Production-driven aftermarket revenues efficiency, decrease working capital and increased by 4% with sequential growth Investment deliver lead time reductions to customers.
Capital expenditure of 45m 2013: 53m As part of the Group-wide efficiency included investment in the initial development review the division announced in November Double-digit growth in Asia-Pacific, of a new best-cost campus in Malaysia.
The 2014 the consolidation of four smaller supported by the acquisition of Trio in division is also investing in a common ERP manufacturing units into larger facilities late October 2014, was offset by a 42m platform over the next three years to support across Europe, North America and reduction in African revenues, primarily global capacity planning.
Research and Australia, which combined with other as a result of strikes in South Africa.
development spending of 11m 2013: 13m actions including workforce reductions Revenues from European and South was focused on developing the divisions in Africa, Europe and South America, American markets also fell, reflecting materials technology, mechatronics capability is expected to contribute annualised subdued end market conditions although and expanding its product portfolio.
benefits of 15m by the end of 2015. output in Australasia increased slightly, supported by strong aftermarket demand.
Outlook Order Input decreased by 4% to 1,127m Reported revenues declined by 14%, Total mining capital expenditure is 2013: 1,180m, with strong aftermarket reflecting a 10% foreign exchange expected to reduce for the third year in growth more than offset by a material headwind 2013 reported: 1,304m.
succession in 2015, albeit at a lower rate fall in original equipment orders.
Maintenance capital expenditure equipment orders were 22% lower year Operating profit decreased 7% on a is anticipated to remain broadly in line with on year, driven by a reduction in the constant currency basis to 226m 2013: recent years: however, further reductions number of brownfield projects reaching the 243m, as a result of lower revenues and are forecast in brownfield and greenfield procurement stage and lower orders from a fall in contribution from African operations investment.
The growth rate for global non-mining markets, although a good level of 18m and investment in the comminution ore production is expected to be in the 34 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements low single digits, supported by growing by a strengthening comminution presence, In addition, profits will be supported by the global demand.
particularly in the growing aggregates end first benefits from the previously announced market and including a full year contribution efficiency review and a more normalised Oil sands capital expenditure is anticipated from Trio.
Aftermarket revenues are operating environment in South Africa.
to decline materially, reflecting recent oil anticipated to benefit from increasing ore Operating margins are expected to be price reductions, although production production volumes and a growing active slightly lower year on year, as a result levels are expected to be resilient.
The installed base as customers commission of reduced profitability and volumes in impact on mining original equipment and continue to ramp up activity levels at oil and gas markets.
revenues is expected to be largely offset new mines, particularly in South America.
Key priorities in 2015 Partners in production worldwide Execute comminution strategy through effective integration of Trio.
Working with Increase investment in research our customers to and development to position the division for future growth.
improve efficiency Strengthen interface with our customers through enhanced service capability and greater Weir recently signed a Global Framework on-site presence.
Agreement with Kinross Gold Corporation which will reduce operating costs and Progress implementation of new divisional ERP system.
increase productivity at Kinross mine sites and operations.
Increase efficiency and deliver the benefits of the global The agreement covers all of Kinross of supply and identify solutions which rationalisation programme.
global locations including North America, create value for both companies.
South America, West Africa and Russia.
Weir Minerals will become Kinross preferred supplier of mining equipment, Kinross is a Canadian gold mining including centrifugal slurry and positive company which maintains listings on displacement pumps, hydrocyclones, both the Toronto Stock Exchange and slurry valves, crushers, screens, rubber the New York Stock Exchange.
Market input breakdown in 1993, Kinross has become one of the worlds leading gold mining groups with Weirs reputation for delivering Minerals 77% total annual gold equivalent production of innovative, highly engineered and Oil and gas 9% 2.6 million to 2.7 million ounces forecast efficient mining equipment, supported Industrial 9% in 2014. by its market-leading global service Power 3% Other 2% centre network, complements Kinross The agreement will see the two operating model and will help to deliver companies work together to identify total cost of ownership reductions.
opportunities to reduce Kinrosss This builds on the agreement Weir operating costs, ensure security signed with Anglo American in 2013.
Geographic input breakdown South America 23% North America 23% Australasia 18% Middle East Africa 14% Europe 12% Asia-Pacic 10% The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 35 Operational Review continued Weir Oil & Gas Staying flexible in dynamic markets 36 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Paul Coppinger Divisional Managing Director 2014 saw every business in the division grow by swiftly reacting to increasing demands of customers and leveraging its market-leading service centre network to deliver a strong increase in constant currency revenues and profits.
Key priorities and progress in 2014 Capitalise on growing international China accounted for 29% of Asia-Pacific revenue.
opportunities across each business: Expanded production and geographic presence in the Middle East and introduced Seaboard and Mathena products.
Opened new Oil & Gas Services manufacturing facility in Dubai, UAE which will enable the manufacturing of Pressure Control equipment in the region.
Accelerate customer uptake of recent More than 40% of all fluid end sales from new premium technologies.
product and service launches: 260% growth in Seaboard zipper manifold sales.
The SPM 8 Station Manifold Skid with Safety Iron connections launched provides a compact footprint for easy transport and use.
Seaboard NWH-C Overshot Connector launched and securing first orders in 2014.
Continue to grow share in the Fluid end market share increased to 27% in 2014. pressure pumping market: Power systems strategic partnership formed with Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC subsidiary MTU America.
Expand maintenance services API and ISO certified facility in Basra having API 6A, 16A, 5CT, 7-1 & ISO 9001, capacity in Iraq, in support of 14001 and 18001 certifications.
the LUKOIL contract awarded Successful mobilisation and expansion of capabilities and capacity in Iraq in support in January 2014: of US$100m two-year contract with LUKOIL.
Acquired additional OCTG threading machine shop facility Iraq, increasing capability to serve Southern Iraqs oil and gas industry.
Deliver benefits from upstream and 8m of revenues from the organically developed Swellable Packers range.
downstream oil and gas forums: Contract wins for bundled offering of centrifugal pump offering from across the Group.
Increase supply chain flexibility Introduced maturity model and developed business unit improvement plans using and improve working capital ratios Value Chain Excellence methodologies.
through working Value Chain Excess pressure pumping inventories reduced by 53m.
Excellence Initiatives: API certification awarded to Mathena.
Market drivers For the majority of the year, increased Strategic Goals Global oil and gas markets continued to investment supported strong growth in grow strongly for the majority of the year North American oil production with a 5% Innovation with average US rig count, an indicator rise in the number of wells drilled in the US.
Collaboration of activity in our Pressure Pumping and Production was supported by increased Pressure Control operations, increasing intensity in operations which resulted in the Value Chain Excellence by 6% in 2014.
A prolonged period of number of horizontal wells rising 11% and Global Capability stability in global oil prices ended in the the number of frack stages rising by 22%.
fourth quarter, as oil prices began to fall Alongside increasing intensity of completion dramatically with a subsequent pull back techniques, this contributed to strong in activity levels beginning at the very end growth in aftermarket demand.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 37 Operational Review continued Market drivers continued service network to attract new customers Operating profit North American activity continued to to its core product range.
be dominated by oil and liquids which accounted for 82% of North American Internationally, a new Middle East 225m drilling and completion.
Gas activity was headquarters was completed in Dubai subdued as natural gas prices remained alongside increasing service centre capability in 32% below incentive levels, despite briefly Azerbaijan and Iraq.
The new Dubai facility will increasing early in the year as a result meet regional demand for locally manufactured 2014 225m of a harsh winter in the US.
wellhead and valve manufacturing, supporting 2013 171m the internationalisation of Pressure Control, 2012 202m In pressure pumping markets, demand for while also expanding service centre capacity original equipment increased from 2013 to capture fast-growing regional opportunities.
levels as frack fleet utilisation reached 87% This included a ramp-up of activity to support in North America, reflecting greater demand the LUKOIL maintenance contract in southern Revenue and increased intensity of operations.
Iraq, which is utilising the divisions Basra Internationally, Chinese frack fleet growth service capability the first in the region to was subdued but Australia grew strongly, secure API and ISO licenses.
As part of the Group-wide efficiency review, 32% Average rig count in the Middle East the division announced the consolidation 2014 992m continued to grow, increasing by 9% with of a Pressure Control manufacturing unit continued positive trends in Iraq and Saudi in California into a larger Houston facility, 2013 754m Arabia in particular.
Mid and downstream with a consequent reduction in workforce of 810m 2012 markets were impacted by project delays approximately 100.
This and other measures in the second half of the year.
are expected to deliver annualised savings of 10m.
In addition, and in response to the 2012 and 2013 restated at 2014 average exchange rates.
Strategic progress steep reduction in oil prices which began The divisions market-leadership position in in the fourth quarter of 2014, the Group pressure pumping and developing a Tier 1 has taken further actions to reduce costs.
Input increased offering in pressure control ensured it was This includes an additional planned reduction by 20% over the year, although order rates able to gain market share as upstream in the divisions workforce of approximately softened at the end of 2014, reflecting North American markets grew strongly.
This 550 by March 2015, the insourcing of changing market conditions.
was supported by the divisions extensive sub-contracted manufacturing and further service centre network which captured reducing operational costs.
Services enjoyed strong double-digit input increased aftermarket demand for spare growth, supported by higher operations parts, services and the cross selling of the Order input at 1,032m 2013: 768m and maintenance O&M activity as a result expanded product range.
All business units was 34% higher with good growth from of the LUKOIL contract in Iraq, which was delivered strong organic order growth with each business in the division.
Aftermarket secured at the start of 2014.
Downstream international expansion positioning the input was up 30% year on year, driven by orders also increased as Gabbioneta Group to benefit from development in strong growth in Pressure Pumping and secured a number of large LNG and refinery markets such as China, Argentina, Brazil, accounted for 70% 2013: 73% of divisional contracts across the Middle East and Asia.
Original equipment input was 47% higher, primarily driven by demand for new Revenue increased by 32% to 992m on Pressure Pumping further enhanced its lean Pressure Pumping equipment.
a constant currency basis 2013: 754m, manufacturing and supply chain platform, reflecting the strong order input trends giving it the operational flexibility to increase Pressure Pumping input increased by 50%, across the business.
Original equipment production rapidly as its markets expanded.
with strong trading until almost the year end, and aftermarket revenues both increased by In flow control and fluid ends for instance, when there was a reduction in demand in 32% with aftermarket accounting for 72% this helped the business increase market North America as customers started to of output 2013: 72%.
Revenues increased share by 4% and 5% respectively over revise spending plans in response to the sequentially each quarter with record the last two years.
There was strong organic steep fall in oil prices.
This growth was second half divisional sales.
growth over the course of the year, with driven by a strong aftermarket performance fluid end sales nearly doubling and over as the divisions comprehensive product and Pressure Pumping delivered strong 40% of orders coming from the business service offering allowed it to gain market revenue growth broadly mirroring input new premium range.
Fluid end input was up nearly 90% trends and only slightly down on the next generation frack pump, incorporating on 2013, supported by differentiated new previous 2011 peak.
Pressure Control patented design features, is progressing products.
Flow control orders exceeded revenues also increased in line with well with field trials scheduled for the their previous record in 2011 and accounted order trends, supported by positive North first quarter of 2015.
The division is also for nearly 30% of Pressure Pumping input.
American activity levels for the majority partnering with MTU America part of Original equipment orders more than of the year.
Both operations saw a slightly Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC to design the doubled from a low base in 2013, with softer than expected finish to the year as industrys first purpose built integrated some initial signs in the second quarter the result of oil price declines.
Services power system for hydraulic fracturing.
of a frack pump replacement cycle starting, grew strongly although Gabbioneta was but this did not materialise in the second down year on year as a result of a lower Pressure Control increased its market share half, as the oil price declined.
Pressure opening order book and customers by launching new products such as its range Control also benefitted from strong North delaying project delivery dates.
Reported of zipper manifolds, a new hydraulic choke American demand and increased its share divisional revenues increased by 25% and a well-overshot solution for subsea of rigs, supported by the expansion of after a 5% foreign exchange headwind applications.
The business cross-sold its its product and service offering including 2013: 796m.
full portfolio to existing customers and launching a range of zipper manifolds, a new leveraged the divisions market-leading hydraulic choke and a well-overshot system 38 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Operating profit including joint ventures Key priorities in 2015 was 32% higher on a constant currency basis at 225m 2013: 171m, primarily Respond with agility to changing driven by strong Pressure Pumping profit market dynamics and improve growth.
Reported operating profit increased overall business performance by 25% after a 5% foreign exchange through delivery of Value Chain headwind 2013: 181m.
Operating margin was unchanged at 22.7% 2013: 22.7% reflecting positive Continue to globalise leadership operating leverage in Pressure Pumping position in Pressure Pumping and offset by increased bonus costs and lower progress towards a Tier 1 offering margins in Pressure Control.
Margins were in Pressure Control.
slightly below prior expectations as a result of softer than anticipated trading at the end of the year in higher margin Pressure Enhance product offerings in Pumping and Pressure Control operations.
Pressure Control and Pressure Pumping.
Investment Capital expenditure of 50m 2013: 38m included additional facilities for Services Expand capabilities of Weir Oil in Iraq and Dubai, additional Pressure & Gas Services in the UAE, Iraq Control rental assets, a new R&D facility and Saudi Arabia, including the in Fort Worth, US and the commencement benefits of its new regional of construction of a new facility in Milan, manufacturing hub in Dubai.
Total research and development expenditure of 8m was focused on developing new frack pump Leverage Weirs total centrifugal design and related sensor and control pump capabilities to increase technologies 2013: 5m.
share in the global oil and gas processing markets.
Outlook Oil prices are expected to remain substantially below their average of the last three years as a result of oversupply.
As such, the market is expected to take longer to reach a balance than during the demand driven downturns in 2008-9 and 2012-13.
However, global demand continues Market input breakdown to grow and unconventional oil is well positioned to react quickly when market Oil and gas 99% conditions improve.
Industrial 1% Many Exploration and Production E&P and service companies have already announced plans to significantly reduce their capital spending in response to lower oil prices a trend reflected in the fall in US onshore rigs in the first two months of 2015.
Visibility in these upstream markets is limited as customers continue to adjust their operations to the evolving pricing environment, although Geographic input breakdown a significant fall in activity levels is anticipated North America 75% with resulting pricing pressure.
Conditions Middle East Africa 13% are also expected to be more challenging Europe 5% in international and mid and downstream Asia-Pacic 5% markets, although the impacts will be Australasia 1% less pronounced.
South America 1% The division has already acted to reduce costs and increase efficiency and will continue to monitor the need for further actions to support operational performance.
However, these measures will not fully offset market impacts with a substantial reduction in divisional revenues and lower operating margins expected in 2015.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 39 Operational Review continued Partners in production worldwide Supporting developing oilfields In January 2014, the Group signed a contract with LUKOIL Oil Company to provide general maintenance services for the West Qurna-2 oilfield in Southern Iraq.
The agreement, worth around US$100m By the end of the year production reached In-keeping with Weirs safety culture, the 60m, sees Weir engineers deliver a peak of around 400,000 barrels per day.
facility includes employee accommodation mechanical, electrical, maintenance on-site, reducing the need for travel in and pipeline services for the related This substantial contract demonstrates the country and enhancing security for production facilities, including the the importance of Weirs long experience our employees.
of working in Iraq and its reputation for delivering high-quality engineering The new facility increases Weirs capacity Weir has significantly invested in services in support of the countrys in the country by adding new machines establishing its service centre in Basra, developing oilfield infrastructure.
It also and capabilities, enabling it to provide Iraq and it is the first in-country location reflects the Groups ability to capture wellheads and Christmas trees to oil to offer fully comprehensive maintenance opportunities in high-growth markets and gas producers.
services for all kinds of rotating equipment, and be a partner of choice to its valves and wellheads.
The facility is also the worldwide customers.
first in Iraq to obtain API and ISO licences.
In late 2014 Weir expanded its footprint West Qurna-2 is one of the largest in Iraq by acquiring Weatherford OCTGs undeveloped oilfields in the world.
threading machine shop and moving Mishrif began production in March 2014, into a purpose-built workshop facility at which time Weir commenced work in North Rumaila, Basra, Iraq.
under the terms of its contract.
40 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 41 Operational Review continued Weir Power & Industrial Improving operations to drive future growth 42 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements John Heasley Divisional Managing Director The division responded to mixed market conditions by restructuring our operations to improve efficiency and position Power & Industrial to take advantage of future growth opportunities.
Key priorities and progress in 2014 Geographical expansion: Strong order growth in offshore oil and gas platforms in the Middle East and Asia.
Expanded sales presence in Russia and Northern Europe.
Best-cost sourcing: Continued growth in manufacturing volumes in Korea, China, India and progressing utilisation of assets in Malaysia.
Product development: Continued to develop Valve capabilities extending material ranges to deal with more extreme environments.
Aftermarket enhancement: Increased resource and capability in our aftermarket dedicated teams and, as a result, Valve aftermarket orders increased 26% year on year.
Market expansion: Oil and gas orders increased by 20% with significant progress in LNG projects for our safety valves product range.
Enhanced application expertise with the addition of a number of specialist Valve and application engineers.
Market drivers Aftermarket conditions were also supported Strategic Goals Uncertain global economic conditions by the first major maintenance cycles led to customer caution and subsequent starting after the substantial increase in Innovation project delays in power, industrial and Chinese power projects in the last decade.
Collaboration downstream oil and gas projects, with a few limited exceptions.
Strategic progress Value Chain Excellence The division responded to mixed market Global Capability In the divisions core conventional power conditions and a consequently disappointing markets, steady demand in the US and margin performance by restructuring China together with improving conditions operations as part of the Group-wide in India offset by weakness in Korea and efficiency review.
The new structure will Europe.
Nuclear activity gained some more closely align resources to profitable momentum, including the announcement opportunities while reducing costs, of new developments in the UK but it will streamlining management and improving be later in 2015 before many projects move accountability.
The programme involves a to the procurement stage.
North American reduction of 90 posts and is expected to Hydro markets recovered from a low point generate annualised benefits of 10m by in 2013 albeit not returning to peak levels.
Value Chain Excellence initiatives made progress and the division There was weakness in mid and will continue to support performance by downstream oil and gas projects with capitalising on its global manufacturing customers cautious in allocating capital capability in best-cost locations in expenditure and thereby delaying projects, Malaysia, China and India.
particularly in Europe and the Middle East.
In Liquefied Natural Gas LNG, project Valves operational performance improved momentum continued for Australian and throughout the year as a result of recent Russian projects.
Hydro continued to use its technology and deep end market The slowdown in projects had a positive knowledge to develop strong partnerships effect on aftermarket orders with strong with customers.
demand across all geographies reflecting more intense use of assets.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 43 Operational Review continued Strategic progress continued Operating margin was down 360bps to Operating profit There was further progress in oil and gas 5.8% 2013: 9.4% on a constant currency markets with notable success in a number basis, reflecting the disappointing operational of LNG projects and other severe service performance and product mix within Valves 19m applications.
and Services as higher-margin nuclear revenues were replaced by lower-margin -37% In South Korea, we were pleased to commercial valve opportunities.
Margins commission a number of turbine bypass also declined in Hydro, reflecting negative 2014 19m valves in the year which represents a operating leverage.
2013 30m key strategic opportunity for our Control 2012 30m Valve business.
Investment Capital expenditures of 9m 2013: 11m Order input decreased by 4% to 314m was primarily focused on expanding the 2013: 326m primarily due to a large capacity of the divisions Valves facility Revenue 20m one-off Services order in 2013 which in South Korea.
was not repeated and we withdrew from low margin projects in Libya.
Excluding this, Investment in research and development 318m order input was up 3%.
Original equipment declined slightly to 2.4m 2013: 2.9m orders were down 3%, with strong growth with a new range of municipal pumps 1% in Hydro more than offset by tougher end progressing to field trials.
2014 318m market conditions and project delays in Valves.
Aftermarket input declined by 4%, Outlook 2013 314m with strong double-digit Valves growth Power end markets are expected to 310m 2012 offset by lower Services input.
Total Valves remain subdued in 2015, with expenditure input was slightly down year on year.
in Europe impacted by low projected economic growth rates and the majority 2012 and 2013 restated at 2014 average exchange rates.
Power markets represented 58% of orders of project activity continuing to be located 2013: 61% and the proportion of orders in emerging markets.
Mid and downstream from oil and gas markets increased to 14% oil and gas markets will be impacted by Market input breakdown 2013: 12%, supported by the divisions the recent fall in oil prices, with existing move into adjacent sectors such as LNG and new projects subject to delays.
Power 58% and Floating Production, Storage and Industrial 15% Offloading FPSO.
Emerging markets Supported by the opening order book and Oil and gas 14% accounted for 35% of input 2013: 33%.
good aftermarket opportunities, the division Other 12% is targeting constant currency revenue Minerals 1% Revenue increased by 1% on a constant growth and is expected to benefit from currency basis to 318m 2013: 314m, measures taken at the end of 2014 to with aftermarket growth of 3% and original improve the profitability of the business.
equipment revenues broadly flat on the prior year.
Valves revenues were higher year on year but slightly below expectations due to customers delaying shipments and the Geographic input breakdown impacts of a four-week strike from late November at its US facility.
Hydro sales North America 33% fell as a result of the lower opening order Europe 31% book.
Full year divisional book-to-bill was Asia-Pacic 26% marginally negative at 0.99 2013: 1.04.
Middle East Africa 8% Reported revenues fell by 3% after a 5% South America 2% foreign exchange headwind 2013: 330m.
Operating profit was down 37% at 19m on a constant currency basis 2013: 30m as a result of margin declines across Valves, Services and Hydro operations.
Valve operating profits were lower as a result of 0.6m additional costs incurred following strike action at its US facility in December.
Reported operating profits fell 41% after a 6% foreign exchange headwind 2013: 31m.
44 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Key priorities in 2015 Partners in production worldwide Complete and deliver the benefits of the divisions restructuring Serving South Koreas programme.
growing need for Expand low-cost sourcing and leverage VCE to deliver further operational efficiency benefits.
electricity Continue to grow Valve aftermarket revenues.
South Koreas electricity suppliers have historically relied on nuclear and coal power Expand application and generation to meet consumption needs product range through new product development.
Liquefied natural gas LNG combined the countrys domestic power market Expand geographical reach.
cycle generation is an attractive and as they were the first valves of their fast-growing application in the region type manufactured locally for use in due to its high-efficiency and cleaner the South Korean domestic market.
The technical expertise and product In 2014, the Power & Industrial division innovation involved in turbine bypass delivered turbine bypass valves to two valves is market leading.
The valves new combined cycle LNG power plants use high alloy steels to cope with located in South Korea.
The project operating temperatures up to 605 represented the successful execution degrees Celsius and have a forgedof the divisions strategy to serve global body design incorporating a number power generation customers with newly of key features which enable safe and developed engineering solutions.
reliable operation at high temperatures and extreme pressures.
The new valves allow safer, more flexible operation of combined cycle turbines.
Since delivering the project Weir has During power plant commissioning, the continued to develop the product product allows the boiler to be tested further and is now engaging with without running the turbine, saving Korean engineering, procurement and significant fuel costs and time in the construction companies involved in the process.
Weir International South Korea global power market including North delivered the valves to the 950 megawatt American and European customers.
Shin-Ulsan power plant in February and then the same set of valves to the Shin-Pyeongtaek power plant in March.
The project marked a breakthrough in The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 45
