Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents GROUP Financial Review GROUP Financial Review Financecosts  Earningspershare EPS Net underlying finance costs of 62 million represented a Merlin is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange Basic earnings per share was 16.0p 2013: 15.1p.
During 2013 facility rates, principally on the translation of the results of our overseas amendments were made which reduced the margins payable operations.
The table below shows the impact on 2013 revenues Adjusted earnings per share, which excludes the impact of In September on the Groups debt facilities: there was a restructuring of the of re-translating them at 2014 foreign exchange FX rates.
2014 we paid our first interest rate swaps portfolio: and borrowings were repaid Operating profits would be similarly impacted.
from the net proceeds of the IPO.
During 2014 further The 2013 EPS figures were affected by capital changes arising as interim dividend debt repayments of 70 million were made.
part of the IPO in November 2013.
Growth in the underlying 2013 2014 %age profit after tax of the Group was 11.1%.
average average movement Revenue Taxation Currency FXrates FXrates inFXrates impactm An underlying tax charge of 70 million is equivalent to an  USD 1.55 1.66 7.5% 17 effective tax rate of 28.0% 2013: 12.7% of underlying profit before tax.
The difference between the reported effective tax EUR 1.17 1.24 6.5% 15 rate and the UK standard weighted tax rate of 21.5% is mainly 2014 2013 Cashflow m m due to the different tax rates that apply in the various AUD 1.62 1.82 12.2% 10 2014 2013 jurisdictions we operate in around the world.
Profit attributable to shareholders 162 145 m m Other - - - 10 Exceptional items after tax 17 UnderlyingEBITDA 411 390 The charge in 2013 reflected similar differences in tax rates 17  52 offset by the recognition of deferred tax assets in the UK.
Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 179 162 Exceptional items - 30 This UK deferred tax asset recognition came as a result of the Groups financing changes in that year that resulted both in lower Weighted average number of shares Working capital and other movements - 27 1,014 958 million underlying interest charges and lower levels of debt, and hence Tax paid 54 22 greater certainty of tax becoming payable in the future.
Basic earnings per share 16.0p 15.1p  357 365 Underlying EBITDA Further detail is provided in note 2.3 to the financial statements.
Adjusted earnings per share 17.7p 16.9p Capital expenditure 152 192 grew by 21 million despite Exceptionalitems Other investing activities 3 11 There were no exceptional costs impacting EBITDA or operating unfavourable foreign profit in 2014 2013: 30 million in respect of costs associated Dividend Net proceeds from IPO - 194 with the IPO and acquisition related activities.
As previously announced, the Company intends to adopt a exchange movements Interest paid, net of interest received 56 92 progressive dividend policy within an initial target range of Exceptional finance costs before tax of 23 million were recorded payout of 35-40% of underlying profit after tax, so as to Dividends paid 20 - to accelerate the expected amortisation rate of previous loan maintain an appropriate level of dividend cover whilst retaining issuance costs.
This arose as a result of the Boards assessment at sufficient capital in the Group to fund continued investment  86 304 the end of 2014 that a more reliable estimate of the timeframe across our six growth drivers.
 for refinancing would be some time during 2015.
Further details Refinancing and repayment of borrowings 70 179 are provided in the financial statements on page 131.
In September 2014 we paid our first interim dividend of 2.0 pence per share and we are proposing a final dividend  16 125 In 2013 net exceptional finance income of 16 million before of 4.2 pence per share.
This equates to a full year dividend tax was recorded in relation to gains and losses on derivative of 6.2 pence per share.
financial instruments which were not hedge accounted.
Merlin continues to be highly cash generative.
Tax on exceptional items amounted to a credit of 6 million The Group generated a net operating cash flow after tax of 2013: charge of 3 million.
This primarily reflects underlying EBITDA, offset by tax payments of 54 million.
These tax payments have increased in 2014 as a result of higher profits together with the impact of tax losses in certain territories having been utilised.
50 51 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents GROUP Financial Review GROUP Financial Review Capital expenditure and investing activities of 195 million Loanfacilities Netassets in aggregate was incurred in order to invest in both the existing Under the existing bank facilities, Merlin has a revolving facility of Net assets increased by 119 million from 944 million in estate businesses 107 million and new attractions and 150 million 2013: 150 million.
This facility is in addition to the 2013 to 1,063 million in 2014.
The Group generated accommodation 88 million, including early stage spend term debt and is available to finance working capital requirements on new LEGOLAND Park developments.
and for general corporate purposes.
As at 27 December 2014, This reflects 162 million profit for the year, offset by a net operating cash flow nil had been drawn down from the revolving facility 2013: nil.
27 million of other comprehensive income, primarily In line with our strategy, Merlins capital investment programme Merlin is required to comply with certain financial and nonexchange losses arising on the retranslation of net assets of 357 million creates new rides and features for the existing businesses, financial covenants, including a requirement to maintain certain denominated in foreign currencies, together with movements following the specific investment cycles laid down for each ratios of EBITDA to both net interest payable and net debt.
The in the valuation of hedge accounted derivatives.
In addition we Operating Group.
In addition, during 2014 we continued to existing facility is secured by fixed charges over the shares in incurred an expense of 4 million in respect of share-based invest significantly in new accommodation offerings across our certain Group companies and certain intra-Group receivables.
payments and paid an interim dividend of 20 million.
All major capital projects are appraised both operationally and financially and Merlin sets clear The Groups loan facilities remained unchanged throughout 2014 The consolidated statement of financial position on page Summary project return targets to assist in assessing the viability following the amendments made during 2013 that secured 106 shows an increase in property, plant and equipment of Overall I am again very pleased with our financial performance and prioritisation of capital investment projects.
Following the IPO and reflecting the 89 million from 1,321 million to 1,410 million, primarily in 2014.
The continued strong trading of the Group, the long Groups subsequent progress, it is pleasing to note that we have reflecting the capital additions referred to previously offset by term shareholding structure following the recent IPO, together depreciation charges, together with the retranslation of those Within the 88 million of new development capital expenditure now secured a new 1,300 million banking facility that, once with the stability and flexibility of our bank facilities give an assets at different foreign exchange rates.
Foreign exchange noted above, the Group invested 49 million in expanding the drawn, will replace the existing debt facilities.
The Company appropriate financial platform on which we can pursue our translation differences also account for the majority of the Midway portfolio.
Six new attractions were opened in 2014 will continue to explore opportunities to diversify sources of growth strategy based around our six strategic growth drivers.
reported reduction in intangible assets from 961 million to and we are on track for a further seven in 2015. funding and extend maturities.
Working capital has remained broadly flat and net debt has reduced as a result of the financing activities Repayments of borrowings were made totalling 70 million.
The new senior unsecured facilities will comprise circa 1,000 AndrewCarr referred to previously.
The net pensions liability remained million in floating rate term debt, with maturities in 2018 and  broadly flat at 5 million 2013: 4 million.
Net interest paid of 56 million 2013: 92 million has reduced 2020, along with an increased 300 million revolving credit facility.
25 February 2015 reflecting all the factors referred to above in relation to the The reduction in drawn term debt will be funded through the Further detail is provided in the notes to the financial reduction in the Groups underlying net finance costs.
use of circa 130 million of the Groups existing cash balance.
The increased revolving credit line will ensure that the Group has Dividends paid in the year of 20 million comprises the adequate committed liquidity facilities to support our seasonality In February 2014 we completed a capital reduction process, interim dividend for 2014 2013: nil.
Under the new facilities we whereby 3,183 million of share premium was converted into will be required to comply with certain financial and profit and loss reserves.
This conversion had no effect on the Netdebt non-financial covenants.
overall net asset position but increased distributable reserves by an equivalent amount.
2014 2013 Overall, the new financing arrangements are more suitable for m m a company of our size and profile.
They will provide further  ROCE flexibility for the Group and, through lower average margins, Bank loans and borrowings 1,136 1,185 The Board considers ROCE to be an important metric for will reduce the cost of debt finance.
appraising financial performance and uses it, along with EPS, in Less: cash and cash equivalents 285 264 the remuneration of senior executives.
The profit measure used Net bank debt 921 851 in calculating ROCE is based on underlying operating profit after taking account of a normalised long term tax rate.
The capital Finance lease obligations 84 85 employed element of the calculation is based on net operating Net debt 935 1,006 assets which include all net assets other than deferred tax, financial assets and liabilities, and net debt.
underlying EBITDA Leverage on net debt at the year end equates to 2.3x underlying EBITDA 2013: 2.6x, recognising both the growth in EBITDA and the reduction in net debt as a result of the strong cash generation.
52 53 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CORPORATE Social Responsibility CORPORATE Social Responsibility Greenhouse gas GHG reporting  The Company is required to annually report its carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes emitted.
From 2014 Merlin has been Strategy and governance A KEY ELEMENT OF OUR MERLIN WAY CULTURE IS THAT WE CARE collecting the global data necessary, both to meet these reporting Merlins strategy on sustainability and the environment is requirements and more importantly to drive our long term to manage resources responsibly.
Ultimate responsibility for ABOUT OUR PEOPLE, OUR VISITORS, THE CREATURES IN OUR CHARGE aim of reducing our emissions intensity by 2% annually.
the implementation of this strategy rests with the CEO, with management teams responsible for implementation AND THE COMMUNITIES AND ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH WE OPERATE.
WE at local and regional levels.
Reportboundaries Financial control - All facilities CALL THIS BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD AND FOCUS OUR EFFORTS IN THE under the Groups direct Environmental policy financial control have FOLLOWING KEY AREAS: SUSTAINABILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT: ANIMAL been included.
Merlin recognises that its operations impact upon the environment and that effective management of this impact This report covers the Consistencywith WELFARE: MERLINS MAGIC WAND CHILDRENS CHARITY: AND BECOMING is essential for sustainable business success.
We are committed twelve month period from financialstatements 1 December 2013 to 30 to monitoring and reviewing our activities and identifying THE COMPANY OF CHOICE FOR VISITORS AND STAFF WITH A DISABILITY.
November 2014 in comparison opportunities for sustainable environmental improvement, in to our financial year of line with our business goals, in order to minimise the potentially January to December 2014. harmful effects of such activity, wherever and whenever practicable.
In particular we will: Methodology UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 Comply with all relevant legislation and where appropriate version applying emissions and practicable, exceed these requirements and apply factors from DEFRA 2014 best practice.
Promote a culture of environmental responsibility and Intensityratio Emissions per 1 million of revenue awareness through leadership, communication and training for customers, employees, contractors and suppliers.
15,349 tonnes Scope1 Further develop our excellent standards of animal husbandry of CO equivalent Fuelcombustion natural 2 and welfare, applying best practice across the Groups gas, diesel, sitevehicles animal collections.
Scope2 125,989 tonnes Consult with relevant stakeholders to meet the Groups Purchasedelectricity of CO equivalent 2 environmental commitments.
Consider and plan for practical and cost-effective control Grouptotalemissions 141,338 tonnes measures in order to minimise environmental impacts Scope1and2 of CO equivalent 2 associated with the Groups operations including energy Intensitybaseline revenue 1,249 million conservation, water reduction, pollution prevention, waste reduction, recycling and disposal.
Emissionsintensity 113 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 Encourage regular investments in environmental initiatives per 1 million of revenue such as low carbon and renewable technologies, improved water management and diversion of waste from landfill.
Strive to continually improve our environmental performance Table notes: We have shown 2014 as our base year upon which our targets will be set.
and minimise the social impact of activities by periodically Refrigerants have not been recorded due to the challenges of data gathering or reviewing our environmental policy in light of our current estimation.
Where practical and material, we plan to include this data from 2015 onwards.
Environment and energy management We have specific budgets set aside to test and implement environmentally focused initiatives and an annual Environmental Award to motivate our sites in this area.
We have developed groupwide sustainability management and carbon reduction plans and a number of water and waste management initiatives that have been developed to encourage sites and build on examples of best practice across the Group, through 2015 and beyond.
We participate in the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC energy efficiency scheme and other applicable environmental regulations globally.
Our baby Gentoo penguin Elsa, One of our many recycling initiatives at SEA LIFE Sanctuary Hunstanton born at the SEA LIFE London Aquarium 55 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CORPORATE Social Responsibility Animalwelfare As well as being the leading global operator of aquariums through our SEA LIFE brand, Merlin also runs zoos at the Chessington World of Adventures Resort in the UK along with WILD LIFE 2014 was another great Sydney Zoo and WILD LIFE Hamilton Island in Australia.
The Company has an excellent reputation for the ethical and year for the successful breeding responsible care, preservation and conservation of animals ENDANGERED UNDULATE RAY PROTECTION of many marine species and the marine environment.
This reputation is widely acknowledged by expert organisations around the world.
In 2012, Merlin acquired Shanghai Chang Feng Ocean World, The undulate ray is a European species of skate which lives in coastal Whats this which has three Beluga Whales on display.
In line with our publicly waters from southern UK to the Mediterranean.
There has been a sharp all about?
stated policy on cetaceans in captivity, we are working hard with decline in the wild population over the last decade, caused primarily by We have raised significant funds across the globe in 2014 to Whale and Dolphin Conservation WDC to find and develop a overfishing, being caught as by-catch and habitat destruction.
The undulate support future projects, and in 2015 the Trust will launch a new more natural environment for these animals.
Whilst a number of ray is now classified as Endangered and commercial fishing of the species global campaign focused on protecting marine habitats.
solutions are explored, their welfare is our top priority and we is now banned in the EU.
have adapted their daily routine to focus on natural behaviour WILD LIFE and keep them sufficiently stimulated and healthy.
Chessington World of Adventures Resort continues its successful Our Animal Welfare and Development department has been leading a What are breeding programmes with two Scimitar Horned Oryx, two Gentle Breed, Rescue, Protect breeding programme for the undulate ray over the last four years.
Lemurs, two Golden Headed Tamarins, one Saki Monkey, two Bolivian Merlin actively engages our guests and employees in our Merlin teamed up with the University of Manchester to research the Squirrel Monkeys and twelve Black-cheeked Lovebirds all being bred conservation and welfare work through our global Breed, Rescue, genetic picture of undulate rays in aquariums across the UK.
Our troop of Gentle Lemurs at Chessington represents Protect initiative and promotes the protection of wildlife across extend this essential activity across Europe, to understand how these over 10% of the entire European collection, a critically endangered the globe by supporting projects and campaigns which make genetic pictures vary from area to area, both in captivity and in the wild.
species found in the wild in a shrinking area in Madagascar.
The Chessington Conservation Fund CCF also committed SEA LIFE By taking a wide variety of samples from undulate ray populations, including How are we to a number of projects: Breed from the wild, we test their genetic makeup.
The rays are DNA sampled doing it?
In partnership with the World Land Trust, CCF now sponsor 2014 was another great year for the successful breeding of many much like you would see a suspect being swabbed on an episode of CSI!
a ranger to protect the 128 acres of Ecuadorian rainforest marine species across the SEA LIFE network with 65 different species All the creatures are then released unharmed and the DNA information equivalent in size to the Chessington Resort and purchased and 7,737 individual animals bred including a baby Gentoo Penguin, we have collected is held in a database.
This complex data is then analysed in 2012 from illegal logging and the bush meat trade.
christened Elsa, at the SEA LIFE London Aquarium and a Black Tip so we can effectively create a large family tree of the UK captive undulate CCF funded the purchase of an X-ray machine to help Ape Reef Shark in Gnzburg, Germany amongst many other species.
This will aid a deeper understanding of their genetic Action Africa in their efforts to rehabilitate orphaned gorillas structure and guide us in our mission to constructively influence the back to the wild.
A case study of the importance of this Rescue species successful survival.
diagnostic health equipment was showcased on the BBC As part of our Rescue Rehabilitation Release Programme we programme Operation Wild with Shufai the Gorilla.
have rescued many animals through our SEA LIFE network this CCF worked with a new organisation in Zimbabwe, the year.
Our focus on releasing these where possible continued We will be the first in the world to have mapped the genetic makeup What will the Dambari Wildlife Trust, providing identification equipment with 108 seals and 43 turtles being released through the year.
The knowledge gained will be freely available for use across results be?
including cameras to the rangers who actively patrol the As part of its ongoing rescue and release programme, in May the globe by fisheries management teams and Non-Governmental area which is frequented by both the threatened White SEA LIFE Busan Aquarium rescued a Finless Porpoise, which is in Organisations.
This will assist the management of wild populations and Black Rhino.
rehabilitation with the view to being released back to the wild.
and help protect the long term future of this amazing creature.
WILD LIFE Sydney Zoo have supported a number of Protect conservation activities: In its first full year of operation, the SEA LIFE Trust has benefited A project with Sydney University to address a disease that greatly from the support of SEA LIFE staff and guests around the threatens the survival of the iconic Tasmanian Devil.
The Trust launched its first public campaign in June, Wipe Providing direct support in Queensland to charitable out Whaling, a joint initiative with WDC calling for the EU to end wombat breeding facilities.
the transport of whale meat through European ports.
With the Directly supporting the Rainforest Rescue support of SEA LIFE, the Trust is gathering many thousands of programme in northern Queenslands signatures to help bring an end to this unacceptable practice.
During 2014 the Trust committed funding to campaigns working to develop a simple test to determine the illegal use of poison CASE STUDY to catch fish: and a project studying the undulate ray that will help sustainable breeding and conservation of the species see Case Study on page 57.
