Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CORPORATE Social Responsibility CORPORATE Social Responsibility MerlinsMagicWand All aspects of accessibility are being explored including We went to Alton Towers Resort and Skye absolutely Merlins Magic Wand MMW forms a key element of Merlins Changing Places toilet facilities, which are much larger facilities Corporate Social Responsibility commitment.
Our very own with specialist equipment to accommodate the more severely loved it!
She went on all sorts of rides and loved Merlins Magic Wand childrens charity delivers magical experiences around the world disabled.
We have the first one of these facilities within a UK them all.
Thank you, it was just what we needed.
to children who are disadvantaged through sickness and disability.
theme park at the Chessington World of Adventures Resort.
forms a key element of Merlins The charity arranges great days out at our attractions.
For those We are also training front-line staff including World Host children faced with conditions and circumstances that prevent accreditation and are making improvements to signage and CSR commitment other communication in the attractions.
In order to ensure them from having a day out, the charity delivers Taking the we are applying best practice we are taking advice from Magic to the Children projects, which are local outreach other organisations including Re-vitalise and Whizz Kidz.
initiatives designed to take Merlins Magic to severely ill children that live within the localities of Merlin attractions.
Merlin makes no differentiation between able bodied and disabled persons in terms of recruitment, training and career Otherareas Merlins support for the charity continues through providing progression.
Furthermore, we make every effort to continue tickets free of charge which had a retail value of over the employment and training of those persons who become Procurement and sourcing 1 million in 2014 and supporting the small charity team disabled while employed by the Group.
We recognise the responsibility we have to the workers in by providing office accommodation, IT and HR support.
our supply chain and seek to ensure our products are made in CommunityRelations an appropriate environment and the products we source are 2014 was another record breaking year for MMW, providing over Our attractions continue to forge partnerships with local produced in accordance with international laws and legislation.
64,500 memorable experiences to children and families around charities and other groups supporting disadvantaged people.
In 2014 every Merlin attraction that had been open We require all of our suppliers to sign the Merlin for more than four months welcomed children through MMW.
Some examples of these local initiatives are: Entertainments Standard Terms and Conditions of Purchase.
We are very proud of the 97% satisfaction rating we received Sites in the UK and USA offer opportunities through We will independently audit certain categories of suppliers, who for their experience.
A Merlins Magic Wand visitor having a fun time at Alton Towers!
programmes such as the Princes Trust and other local produce Merlin Entertainments branded products, against the initiatives for young, often disadvantaged people to gain work Merlin Social Audit Report.
We commit to working with these MMW completed six new projects in 2014 at childrens hospitals, experience and skills training with Merlin.
The LEGOLAND suppliers to ensure they achieve our standards.
Strict sanctions hospices and schools in the UK, Germany and Australia.
We have Windsor programme is run with the award winning Ways are applied when standards are not met.
many more planned for 2015 including a LEGOLAND themed Disability to Work organisation with the local council and provides play area for a childrens therapy centre in Chicago.
Our long term aspiration is to be seen as the company of choice supported employment to individuals with learning difficulties.
We will enter into rebate and volume discount arrangements for visitors and staff with disability.
We see this as an important Madame Tussauds Hong Kong tickets were donated to Yan Oi with suppliers where appropriate but do not require suppliers element of our Being a Force for Good strategy and aim to drive Tong, Yan Chai Hospital and the Hong Kong Federation of to make loyalty or pay to stay type payments to the Group.
continuous improvements in this area.
Our plan is to exceed BEFORE AFTER Handicapped Youth in 2014.
Our payment terms vary in different territories: standard the legislative requirements in place in the various locations in LEGOLAND Florida works with the charities Give Kids the payment terms are 45 days.
which we operate and, in the longer term, provide what will World and the Sunshine Foundations Dream Village which be considered industry leading facilities and experiences.
both bring thousands of sick, disabled and underprivileged Human Rights To support our aims we are able to utilise valuable feedback children to Central Floridas Theme Parks.
In addition it is Merlin has implemented a Human Rights Policy that sets out our from our MMW visitors in order to deliver improvements and very engaged with its immediate community, supporting approach in this area.
We are guided in this by the International inform future developments to our attractions and resorts.
and sponsoring local events, free school trips for local Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and We carry out a comprehensive annual survey of our MMW school children, Chambers of Commerce activities and Rights at Work: and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational guests and will be expanding this further in 2015.
A SEA LIFE themed bathroom at the Very Special Kids Hospice in Melbourne corporate fundraising.
The Policy notes that: With the relaunch of Busan Aquarium as a SEA LIFE, we W e value diversity and have a commitment to equal collected all 1,163 of our former Busan Aquarium uniforms opportunity and intolerance of discrimination and harassment.
Merlin teams around the world provide tremendous support to and donated them to OTCAN Charity www.
org, a W e will not engage in child labour.
the charity, raising awareness and funds, facilitating the MMW local non-profit organisation that distributes donated clothes We will not use forced or compulsory labour and have visits and getting involved in Taking the Magic to the Children to children in need all over the world.
policies in place regarding non-excessive working hours.
The dedication of employees can be highlighted from The Christmas Carols Concert is a community event that We respect employees right to join, form or not to join the 330,000 raised by attraction teams during the year.
Merlin has taken place at Warwick Castle for the past 43 years.
a labour union without fear of reprisal, intimidation or visitors around the world have also got behind the charity, The concert, which is regularly attended by over 2,500 local harassment and will act in good faith when legally required donating their change at attractions and joining in with events.
residents raises money for three local charities.
The Castle to enter into collective bargaining agreements.
provides the venue at no cost, sells tickets to the event We operate in full compliance with local labour laws regarding Corporate partners have shown their support for the charity this and gives significant operational support.
wages, benefits, holidays and rest breaks.
year, raising over 110,000 at our gala dinner and annual cricket We are committed to maintain a safe, secure and healthy day.
We also continue to benefit from support from our major workplace for our employees.
Blackstone, the LEGO Foundation and CVC We will comply with all relevant legislation and where have all contributed via events, partnership activity and or appropriate and practicable, exceed these requirements financial grants, and we are grateful in particular to CVC and apply best practice.
for their ongoing support for the charity.
A family enjoying our fully accessible LEGOLAND Florida Park 58 59 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CORPORATE BOARD Governance Statement of Directors The members of the Board during the year and at the date of this report are as follows: The effectiveness reviews concluded that the Board and its Introduction Committees were functioning well and that each participant Merlin has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
brought an independent perspective to the Boards deliberations As such it is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code with no individual or group of individuals exercising undue the Code, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTRs influence.
The reviews further concluded that the transition from and the Listing Rules.
the private to public environment had gone smoothly, partly due to the fact that Merlin had operated for a number of years prior Merlin believes that effective corporate governance is a to IPO under a corporate governance structure which was fundamental aspect of a well run company and is committed more aligned to that of a listed plc.
The reviews recognised that to maintaining high standards of corporate governance across the composition of the Board was not settled and that further the Group.
In this regard, Merlin takes account of the views of its changes were likely, both to reflect the reducing shareholdings shareholders and institutional shareholder representative bodies.
of Blackstone and CVC two of the pre-IPO major shareholders The Code can be viewed on the website of the Financial and to ensure that the range of experience on the Board Reporting Council www.
The DTRs and the Listing remained aligned with the needs of the Groups business as it Nick Varney, Andrew Carr, Rules can be viewed on the website of the Financial Conduct Sir John Sunderland, continued to develop.
The reviews recommended a number Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Authority www.
Non-executive Chairman of ways in which the effectiveness of the Board could be improved and these are being implemented.
Nick has over 24 years experience Andrew is a qualified chartered  Sir John was appointed Non-executive in the visitor attractions industry and accountant and was appointed Merlin does not yet fully comply with the recommendation of the Chairman of Merlin Entertainments Investorrelations was appointed Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer of Merlin Code in that it stipulates that at least half the Directors, excluding in December 2009.
He has been The Company communicates with institutional and private Non-executive Chairman of the of Merlin Entertainments in 1999.
He has the Chairman, should be independent of the Group.
With this shareholders in a number of ways and has a dedicated investor Company throughout the year and He has been a Director of the been a Director of the Company exception, as at the date of this Annual Report, Merlin is in relations team to facilitate the exchange of information and continues in this role as at the date Company throughout the year and throughout the year and continues in compliance with all relevant provisions of the Code, the DTRs feedback between shareholders and shareholder representative of this report.
continues in this role as at the date this role as at the date of this report.
and the Listing Rules and has been compliant throughout the bodies and the Company.
Details of major shareholders are of this report.
We expect to be fully compliant by the provided on page 65.
Sir John is currently a Non-executive Prior to Merlin, Andrew was Financial time of the AGM.
Director of Barclays Bank PLC and Prior to Merlin, Nick was Managing Director of Vardon Attractions and The Company has a formal reporting calendar in which existing AFC Energy plc and an adviser to Director of Vardon Attractions and a played a key role in the management Newappointment and potential investors are provided with regular information on CVC, which currently has a 5.50% main board director of Vardon plc.
In buyout of Vardon Attractions to form As planned at the time of the IPO, and following a rigorous search the financial and trading position of the Group.
Merlins 2015 shareholding in the Company.
1999 Nick led the management buyout Merlin Entertainments in 1999 and in process using Spencer Stuart an external search company with no links annual reporting calendar is set out on page 162.
Sir John is also the Chairman of of Vardon Attractions to form Merlin the subsequent business, including to Merlin, Fru Hazlitt joined the Board with effect from 1 April 2014.
In 2005 he initiated two follow-on buyouts, the acquisitions The Companys corporate website is regularly updated with news Chancellor of Aston University, the process which led to its acquisition of LEGOLAND, Gardaland and Fair,  and information, including its Annual Report and Accounts, which a member of the Council of by Blackstone and subsequent rapid The Tussauds Group and the Listing As part of the Companys commitment to maintaining high set out our strategy and performance together with our plans for The University of Reading, and expansion, taking the Company to of Merlin Entertainments on the standards of corporate governance, the Board has put in future growth.
Our presentations to analysts and shareholders an Associate Member of BUPA.
its 2013 Listing on the London London Stock Exchange.
place a process dedicated to ensuring that the Annual Report are also available on the Company website.
and Accounts is presented in a way that is fair, balanced and Previously, Sir John was Chairman Before joining Vardon Attractions, understandable.
This process includes a review of all Board and At our AGM all shareholders have the opportunity to discuss of Cadbury Schweppes from 2003 to Before joining Vardon Attractions, Andrew trained, and was subsequently Committee meetings by the Company Secretary of any matters and raise questions concerning the performance, trading and 2008 and Chief Executive Officer Nick held senior positions within head of a regional Corporate Finance for inclusion, as well as a series of specific reviews undertaken development of Merlin and to vote on the resolutions proposed.
Sir John was also The Tussauds Group part of Pearson Department, at KPMG.
by a dedicated Disclosure Committee of senior managers.
In addition, the Company has a programme of regular meetings President of the CBI from 2004 to plc, including Marketing Director of with current and potential institutional investors.
This activity 2006, President of the Chartered Alton Towers and Head of Group  is led by the CEO and the CFO, together with the Companys Management Institute from 2006 to Marketing.
He started his career in During the year externally facilitated evaluations were undertaken investor relations team.
They report back regularly to the 2007, President of the Food and Drink FMCG marketing first with Rowntree in relation to the Board: the Remuneration Committee: the Board so that the Non-executive Directors in particular Federation from 2002 to 2004, a and then Reckitt & Colman.
Nomination Committee and the Health, Safety and Security can appreciate and discuss the views of shareholders.
Non-executive Director of the Rank Committee.
These were facilitated by Prism Cosec, who are Group from 1998 to 2006 and a independent of the Company and also advise the Company on Director of the Financial Reporting company secretarial compliance matters.
The Audit Committee Council from 2004 to 2011. conducted an internal evaluation of its effectiveness.
60 61 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents BOARD of Directors BOARD of Directors Charles Gurassa, Senior Independent Ken Hydon, Sren Thorup Srensen, Dr. Gerry Murphy, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Charles was appointed Senior Independent Non-executive Ken was appointed a Non-executive Director and Chairman of Sren was appointed a Non-executive Director of the Company Gerry was appointed a Non-executive Director of the Company Director of Merlin Entertainments and Chairman of the the Audit Committee of Merlin Entertainments in 2013.
He has in 2013, representing KIRKBI.
He has been a Director of the in 2013, representing Blackstone.
He has been a Director of Remuneration Committee in 2013.
He has been a Director been a Director of the Company throughout the year and Company throughout the year and continues in this role as the Company throughout the year and continues in this role of the Company throughout the year and continues in this continues in this role as at the date of this report.
at the date of this report.
as at the date of this report.
role as at the date of this report.
Ken is currently a Non-executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser Sren is currently the Chief Executive Officer of KIRKBI, Gerry is a Senior Managing Director in Blackstones private equity Charles is currently the Senior Independent Director and Group plc and Pearson Plc.
Previously, he was CFO of Vodafone following his appointment in March 2010.
Sren was formerly group in London, Chairman of Blackstones European holdings Deputy Chairman of easyJet plc and the Non-executive Group Plc.
Ken was also a Non-executive Director of Tesco Plc a Partner, Chief Financial Officer and member of the Group and a Director of a number of Blackstones portfolio companies.
Chairman of NetNames and Genesis Housing Association.
from 2004 to 2013 and a Non-executive Director of Royal Executive Board of A. P. Moller - Maersk Group between 2006 Before joining Blackstone in 2008, Gerry was CEO of Kingfisher Charles has spent over 35 years in the travel and tourism Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust from 2005 to 2012. and 2009.
Prior to this he was Managing Partner of KPMG plc.
He has previously been CEO of Carlton Communications industry where his roles included Group Chief Executive of Denmark, having been a Partner at KPMG since 1997. plc, Exel plc and Greencore Group plc and spent his earlier Thomson Travel Group plc, Director Passenger and Cargo career with Grand Metropolitan plc now Diageo plc.
He is a Business at British Airways, Executive Chairman of TUI Northern Outside the KIRKBI Group, Sren is currently Non-executive Non-executive Director of British American Tobacco plc and Europe and a Director of TUI AG.
He was a Non-executive Vice-chairman of Topdanmark A S and holds Non-executive has also served on the boards of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Director of Whitbread plc from 2000 to 2009 and former Director positions at LEGO A S, TDC A S and Falck Abbey National plc and Novar plc.
deputy Chairman of the National Trust.
Charles is a Holding A S. Trustee of the Migration Museum.
Miguel Ko, Fru Hazlitt, Rob Lucas, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Miguel was appointed a Non-executive Director of Merlin Fru was appointed a Non-executive Director of Merlin Rob was appointed a Non-executive Director of the Company in Entertainments in 2013.
He has been a Director of the Entertainments with effect from 1 April 2014 and continues 2013, representing CVC.
He has been a Director of the Company Company throughout the year and continues in this role as in this role as at the date of this report.
throughout the year and continues in this role as at the date of at the date of this report.
Fru Hazlitt was formerly Managing Director, Commercial, Online Miguel is currently Non-executive Chairman of Starwood Hotels and Interactive at ITV, and previously Chief Executive Officer of Rob is a Managing Partner of CVC.
An engineer by profession, & Resorts Worldwide, Asia Pacific Division.
He is a Director on Virgin Radio.
Prior to that Fru spent six years at Yahoo!
where her he graduated from Imperial College, London, and spent nearly the Boards of Changi Airport Group, Samsonite International S. A, roles included Managing Director, UK and Ireland, and Sales and ten years with 3i before joining CVC in 1996.
He is a member Surbana Consultants Holding Pte Ltd, Formula One, Singbridge Marketing Director, Europe.
of CVCs European Investment Committee and sits on the board Holdings Pte Ltd and also a Corporate Advisor of Temasek of both CVC and a number of CVCs investee companies.
International Advisors Pte Ltd. From 2000 to 2012, Miguel was Chairman and President of Starwood Hotels & Resorts, Asia Pacific.
Before joining Starwood, he was President, Asia Pacific of Pepsi-Cola International & ITT Sheraton Corporation.
A. in Economics from University of Massachusetts, Boston and Master in Business Administration from Suffolk University, United States.
He is also a non-practising Certified Public Accountant CPA, licensed by the State Board of Accountancy in the State of New Hampshire, United States.
62 63 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CORPORATE Governance Report CORPORATE Governance Report Majorshareholdings The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and As at 24 February 2015, the latest practicable date prior to the Health, Safety and Security Committees with formally delegated duties and responsibilities and written terms of reference.
In date of this Annual Report, the Company had been notified addition, from time to time, separate Committees may be set up pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more by the Board to consider specific issues when the need arises.
of the Companys total voting rights: The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for day-to-day Natureof operations and the development of strategic plans for  On this basis, the Board considers that although during 2014 Numberof holding consideration by the Board.
He is assisted in this by an Except as otherwise stated, as at the date of this Annual Report it did not comply with the recommendation of the Code Nameof ordinary %ofissued Direct Executive Committee of senior managers.
The Executive the Company complies and the Company intends to continue concerning the balance of independent Non-executive Directors shareholder shares sharecapital Indirect Committee is not a formal committee of the Board.
The Board will also take account of on the Board, in practice the Board had an appropriate balance of institutional shareholder governance rules and guidance on Directors and operated independently of any of its shareholders.
KIRKBI Invest A S 302,971,529 29.89 Direct The terms of reference of each of the Board and its disclosure and shareholder authorisation of corporate events.
Committees are available on the Companys corporate At the beginning of February 2015 Miguel Ko notified the Blackstone Merlin 94,790,571 9.35 Direct website www.
biz The Code recommends that a UK listed companys Chairman be Company that he will not be standing for re-election at the Holdings Limited independent on appointment.
The Chairman was appointed in forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board intends that The Directors of all Group companies, as well as the Board December 2009.
The Board considers that the Chairman was Merlin will be fully compliant with the recommendations of the Lancelot Holdings 55,726,456 5.50 Direct S. r. l. CVC and each of its Committees, also have access to the advice and independent on appointment and remains so.
The Board does Code including in relation to Board composition from the services of the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary not consider the subsequent introduction of CVC to whom the date of the 2015 AGM.
Blackrock and other senior management, as well as external advice on, Chairman is an adviser as a shareholder in July 2010 affected the Investment inter alia, legal, accounting, remuneration, health and safety independence of the Chairman for the purposes of the Code.
 65,541,502 6.47 Indirect Management and corporate governance matters.
Appropriate induction The Chairmans role is to ensure good corporate governance.
The Company has entered into Relationship Agreements with UK Limited and subsequent training is provided to new members of each of KIRKBI, Blackstone and CVC.
Under these agreements: the Board and its Committees.
The Code recommends that at least half the members of the Board of Directors excluding the Chairman of a UK listed Each of these shareholders is entitled to appoint one Director The table below sets out the membership of the Board and company should be independent in character and judgement to the Board.
In addition, while KIRKBI holds at least 10% of  its Committees during the year, together with the number and free from relationships or circumstances which are likely the Companys issued share capital, it may also appoint an The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the of meetings held and each members attendance.
The tables to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
observer in addition to a Non-executive Director to the Board and for communications with all Board and Committee overleaf contain further information in relation to the Board Board with the right to attend and speak but not vote.
He ensures that the Board receives and its Committees covering their respective responsibilities, The Board has concluded that, for the purposes of the Code, Each may appoint an observer with the right to attend sufficient information on financial, trading and corporate issues duties and Code compliance.
Charles Gurassa, Ken Hydon, Miguel Ko and Fru Hazlitt should and speak but not vote to each of the Audit Committee, prior to Board meetings.
be regarded as independent Non-executive Directors and that Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee for so their appointments were in the best interests of shareholders.
long as they together with their respective affiliates hold at least 10% of the Companys ordinary shares.
Health, Safety Audit Remuneration Nomination &Security Although Mr Gurassa previously served on the board of Tragus 3 TheBoard Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Limited previously a Blackstone portfolio company  # # # and Mr Ko served during the year on the board of Formula Under an Underwriting Agreement entered into as part Sir John Sunderland 9 9 N A 3 3 3 3 4 4 One Delta Topco Limited, a CVC portfolio company, the other of the IPO, KIRKBI, Blackstone and CVC agreed, subject to Nick Varney 9 9 N A N A N A 4 4 Directors have concluded that the judgement, experience and certain customary exceptions, not to dispose of any shares in the Andrew Carr 9 9 N A N A N A 4 4 challenging approach of each of them ensured that they made Company for a period of 180 days following the IPO.
Under the a significant contribution to the work of the Board and its same agreement each of the Executive Directors, Non-executive # Charles Gurassa 9 9 5 5 3 3 2 3 4 4 Committees.
Their contributions during the year have, in Directors and Merlin Entertainments Share Plan Nominee # Ken Hydon 9 9 5 5 3 3 3 3 N A the opinion of the other Directors, amply demonstrated Limited on behalf of senior management shareholders agreed, Miguel Ko 9 9 5 5 3 3 2 3 N A their independence.
subject to certain customary exceptions, not to dispose of any shares in the Company for a period of 360 days following Listing.
2 Fru Hazlitt 5 9 N A 2 3 1 3 2 4 Blackstone and CVC, along with KIRKBI, were the pre-IPO major Sren Thorup Srensen 9 9 N A N A N A N A shareholders of Merlin and remain major shareholders.
KIRKBI has These restrictions expired during the year and none of the maintained its shareholding following the IPO and presently holds pre-IPO major shareholders are presently under any obligation Dr. Gerry Murphy 9 9 N A N A N A N A 29.89% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Blackstone and to the Company restricting their ability to dispose of shares in Rob Lucas 8 9 N A N A N A N A CVC have sold part of their holdings in the Company during the the Company.
year and, as at the date of this Annual Report, hold 9.35% and Table notes: 5.50% of the issued share capital respectively.
1 Number of meetings attended during the year Total number of meetings held in the year.
2 Fru Hazlitt has attended all five of the Board meetings: two out of three Remuneration Committee meetings: the only Nomination Committee meeting: The Non-executive Directors representing KIRKBI Sren Thorup and two out of three Health, Safety and Security Committee meetings held following her appointment in April.
Srensen, Blackstone Dr. Gerry Murphy and CVC Rob Lucas 3 In addition to the Board members noted above, the Health, Safety and Security Committee also includes as members the managing director are not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Code.
of RTP and the director of health, safety and security.
Both of these members attended all four meetings that took place in the year.
