Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents RISKS and uncertainties RISKS and uncertainties Risk appetite The Board has defined the Groups risk appetite MERLIN HAS A PROACTIVE APPROACH TO THE MANAGEMENT OF POTENTIAL tolerance of risk according to whether a risk is pure Our unequivocal focus is on or speculative.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES WHICH COULD AFFECT THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF ensuring that our operations are Pure risk refers to situations where there is clear regulatory GUESTS, STAFF OR OUR ANIMALS OR HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUPS guidance and matters are strictly defined, such as ride safety, as safe as possible at all times, BUSINESS PERFORMANCE, DELIVERY OF ITS STRATEGY OR THE INTEGRITY OF ITS accounting practices or food hygiene.
The Group has a very low appetite for pure risk.
In practice this means that wilful thereby honouring the trust that FINANCIAL REPORTING.
IT IS AN INTEGRATED BOTTOM UP AND TOP DOWN breach of any national or local legislation is unacceptable.
our guests, employees and APPROACH, WITH BUSINESS RISKS IDENTIFIED, EVALUATED, CONTROLLED AND Speculative risk relates to decisions for which acceptance of a risk shareholders place in us can bring commercial benefit.
The Group has a greater appetite MONITORED BY BOTH OUR ATTRACTION AND CORPORATE MANAGEMENT for speculative risk, which it assesses based on an appropriate TEAMS, OVERSEEN BY THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES.
analysis of threats and opportunities, along with appropriate decision-making authority levels.
Factors such as the scale of possible commercial upside, the potential market size, the quantum of downside risk and timescales involved may all HSS management be relevant to speculative risk decisions.
Responsibility for the management of HSS resides with the Board, with day to day management delegated, via the Executive Risk management Committee, to the relevant management teams throughout the Each attraction and central function maintains a risk register, being Group with local HSS committees in place at both Operating  Whilst the Board retains overall responsibility, specific a record of the material risks it faces categorised into the three Group and attraction levels.
Committees are appointed by the Board to oversee the components of risk as identified above.
The registers include Evolution in approach management of the risks in each category: a rating of each risk, based on an assessment of the likelihood Merlins HSS Policy and health and safety management During the course of 2014, Merlin has reviewed its overall and impact after taking into account existing mitigating control system together set mandatory obligations for standards and risk management approach to further align it to the management The Health, Safety and Security Committee and the Audit measures.
Where this assessment indicates a high residual risk, performance across all our operations.
Our approach, which is of the business and the Board Committee structure.
Committee comprise Board members to oversee health, additional actions are considered to further mitigate the risk.
In well embedded across the Group, incorporates the requirements safety and security matters and financial process risks respectively.
respect of financial risks, such actions may include the use of contained within the UK official guidance on the safe practice of Prior to this change in approach, risks were categorised into: The Groups Executive Committee, a non-Board committee, hedging instruments to protect against movements in foreign fairgrounds and amusement parks HS G 175, as endorsed by health and safety matters: current trading and future expansion oversees commercial and strategic risk through a Commercial and exchange and interest rates, following an assessment of the the UK Health and Safety Executive.
All matters were overseen by a Corporate Risk Management Strategic Risk Management Committee made up of members of the perceived risks in each case.
Risk registers provide the basis in respect of robust independent inspection regimes, is applied Committee which reported to the Executive Committee and, Executive Committee and other relevant senior managers.
It reports for ongoing risk management and all are formally reviewed in all territories in which we operate.
through the CEO, to the Board.
In addition, there was a dedicated quarterly to the Board on such matters, through the CFO.
Health, Safety and Security Committee of the Board chaired by HSS assurance the Chairman to oversee all health and safety matters.
In addition to the ongoing risk management processes, periodic Merlin conducted 78 HSS audits during 2014 to assess compliance detailed reviews of specific risk issues are also undertaken.
This with our HSS policy and manual, which are reported to the HSS In the latter part of 2014, an amended approach to risk review process, together with structured audit programmes Committee.
These audits are in addition to the regional and management has been implemented.
The Group has now covering both financial processes and health, safety and security attraction based self-inspections that also take place throughout separated risk management into three components to reflect controls across the Group, allow the Board to gain assurance the year.
In addition, thorough in-service annual inspections were the varying functions and committees that manage and oversee over the robustness of risk management systems.
Risk registers provide the conducted on all our rides during the reporting period, meeting such risks on an ongoing basis.
The three components are: UK requirements or other national equivalents as a minimum.
Health,  basis for ongoing risk management These are typically performed by accredited independent third Health, safety and security risk.
Integral to Merlins strategic vision is our absolute commitment to continuously achieve high standards of health, safety and party inspectors.
and all are formally reviewed at security HSS.
Merlins number one priority is delivering safe Financial process risk.
least once a year and memorable experiences to guests.
Our unequivocal focus All attractions that prepare and serve food and beverages are is on ensuring that our operations are as safe as possible at all subject to half-yearly or annual food safety audits, performed times, thereby honouring the trust that our guests, employees by specialist independent third party inspectors, to verify and shareholders place in us.
Our ultimate aim is to proactively compliance with Merlins comprehensive food safety policy.
and continuously improve HSS performance.
42 43 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents RISKS and uncertainties RISKS and uncertainties Description Mitigatingfactors Risktrend  Financialprocessrisk Commercial and strategic risk management is delegated from Financial processes within the Group are led and co-ordinated Health, safetyandsecurity HSS the Board, via the CEO and the Executive Committee, to by the central finance function.
Financial process risks are the Commercial and Strategic Risk Management Committee managed by that team through an ongoing assessment of Ride and Health and safety is one of Merlins Proactive ownership of HSS risks by line management Stable CSRMC.
This latter Committee comprises, the CFO, who is external regulatory changes, the quality and timeliness of internal attractions Key Performance Indicators.
based on the provision and adoption of HSS policies, a member of the Board, relevant members of the Executive financial reporting and other financial risk areas such as taxation safety Codes of Practice and guidance notes.
A serious accident to a guest or staff member Committee and other relevant senior managers and is chaired by and treasury.
Key issues are reviewed on a quarterly basis by Competent and trained operational and engineering staff, on a ride or at an attraction could cause harm backed up by professional HSS teams supporting, the CFO.
It meets four times per year with matters arising being a senior finance team within Merlin.
to an individual and impact confidence in the monitoring and inspecting attractions.
reported to both the Executive Committee and the Board on Groups brands.
Utilisation of HSS systems to support the management of a quarterly basis by the CFO.
To provide the Non-executive Further assurance is gained from both the internal and external risks with annual risk register and action planning Directors with sufficient information to gain assurance over the audit processes.
In 2014 the internal audit function, based on an processes by each attraction.
process of commercial and strategic risk management, a fuller annual assessment of risk, provided audit coverage of material Regular internal and annual independent external auditing regimes.
document is provided annually detailing the items discussed and central functions and attractions covering over 70% of revenue Regular review of performance as well as key policies output of the CSRMC.
Furthermore, in 2015 the minutes of generated, identifying procedural weaknesses and providing a and procedures.
each meeting will be issued to the Non-executive Directors.
structure to assess managements response.
The Group is also subject to external audit.
Matters arising from both audit Contractor The delivery of new attractions and experiences, Contractor approval procedures.
Stable The management of commercial and strategic risk is embedded functions are reported to the Audit Committee.
management which often involve work by sub-contractors.
Major contracts are managed by qualified project across the Group through normal business review processes.
In Poor standard of work or unreliable delivery managers and are subject to strict tendering processes.
addition, from 2014 onwards, each attraction and central function is  could impact the Groups safety and Contractor performance is managed by in-house project growth expectations.
required to perform a full risk assessment workshop on an annual Disaster recovery plans are in place at all attractions, incorporating basis.
The purpose of this process is to review any material changes escalation procedures and crisis management protocols that in the external commercial landscape and to assess whether recent are regularly updated on a groupwide basis.
More broadly, Macro event A material macro event such as the spread of Detailed security protocols.
Increasing business continuity plans exist to allow the attractions to recover trading trends may require an alternative risk management a worldwide pandemic or malicious attempt Regularly tested major incident management plans.
performance in the event of various adverse incidents.
These annual assessments are incorporated into the to sabotage a ride or attraction could of such incidents could include prolonged power failure, major IT commercial and strategic section of the risk register for each impact visitation.
failure or life support system failure within a SEA LIFE attraction.
It Operating Group and are aggregated at Group level.
is recognised that only limited contingency planning can be made against natural disasters such as major flooding or earthquakes, however the Groups geographic diversity provides protection against the financial impact of such occurrences.
The tables on the following pages highlight the main risks that have been identified through the Groups risk assessment processes and that have the potential to impact on our strategic development.
The tables show whether, in the opinion of the Board, such risks are increasing, stable or decreasing based on management assessment, review of available data and after taking account of the mitigating factors identified.
44 45 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents RISKS and uncertainties RISKS and uncertainties Description Mitigatingfactors Risktrend Description Mitigatingfactors Risktrend  Financialprocess Customer Customer satisfaction is one of Merlins Regular and detailed customer feedback collected at Stable Anti-bribery and An incident of bribery or corruption could lead Global fraud and bribery training programme in place Stable satisfaction Key Performance Indicators.
Data analysed against challenging corruption to prosecution and fines and could cause alongside a fraud policy sign off for all staff.
satisfaction targets and actions taken accordingly.
reputational damage to the Company.
Regular assessment of bribery exposure, and in A downturn in customer enjoyment of our Ongoing investment in our attractions continually 2014 performed an assessment workshop to reassess attractions could impact repeat visitation.
Merlins business model is lower risk relative to refreshes the experiences for customers.
Similarly subsequent adverse social media other industries as the majority of transactions Robust financial and contractual controls with regard to feedback could adversely affect customer are of low value and to individual customers.
Internal audit monitors purchasing likelihood to visit.
Merlin has a well embedded culture across the processes on a rotational basis.
Group in which fraud and bribery at any level A separate profit protection team monitors for theft or are not tolerated.
Merlin does however operate People Staff engagement is one of Merlins Personal development plans in place at all levels of the Increasing other criminal activity across the Group and ensures best globally and increasingly within territories with availability and Key Performance Indicators.
business to encourage long term employment stability.
practice for protection is shared between sites.
a historically higher propensity to bribery expertise Succession planning processes embedded across the A whistleblowing policy is in place together with an Merlin is a people business.
The inability to and corruption.
attract and retain motivated, customer service orientated staff could impact guest satisfaction and future expansion.
Credit risk Merlin has relationships with a number of Counterparty credit ratings are regularly monitored and Stable banks and is therefore inherently exposed there is no significant concentration of credit risk with to some credit risk.
Animal welfare Growth would be impacted if animals were lost External Zoo Licence audits ensure appropriate Stable to disease or other welfare issues.
Merlin has very limited credit risk with its Internal ethics committee and the Merlin Animal Welfare customers, the vast majority of whom pay in and Development team ensure the ethical treatment of advance or at the time of their visit.
Foreign Merlin has its main borrowings and revenues Broad match of borrowings in the currencies of Increasing exchange risk in Sterling, Euros, US Dollars and Australian underlying revenues.
Availability and The Midway and LEGOLAND Parks growth Experienced site search and business development teams, Stable Dollars so is inherently exposed to exchange Treasury policies in place and reviewed annually with delivery of new strategy is predicated on the availability of working several years in advance to maintain a strong rate fluctuations which could impact on regular reviews of currency exposures.
A decline in the pipeline of pipeline of expansion opportunities.
Currency exposures hedged where appropriate.
attractions suitable and economically viable sites could In 2014 the LEGOLAND development and site search The Group presents constant currency figures where Merlin reports its results in Sterling and as such inhibit this growth.
teams have been expanded to support the development appropriate to show the underlying results of the is subject to translation risk in reporting its of new parks and other sites.
Group excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate Planning permission is often required for new consolidated results.
Sites regularly update their development masterplans translation differences.
rides and attractions so growth could be and teams work closely on fostering links with their impacted if planning permission were not Interest Merlin continues to finance its operations Interest rate swap arrangements in place to fix the Stable local communities.
rate risk through a combination of predominantly floating majority of the debt and substantially all of these are rate debt, and equity.
It is therefore inherently hedge accounted.
Competition Competition for leisure time and new entrants to Diversification to reduce reliance on individual Increasing exposed to interest rate fluctuations which Group policies in place in terms of counterparty the market could reduce opportunities for growth.
could impact on financial performance.
relationships and minimum credit rating criteria.
Ongoing investment in sites to ensure continued appeal to visitors.
Liquidity Cash Many of Merlins businesses are seasonal in Short term cash flow forecasts are updated frequently in Stable flow risk nature, generating cash in peak trading periods order to ensure liquidity for business operations on an and utilising cash out of season, when capital ongoing basis.
IT robustness, The Group has grown in the past both organically IT strategy focused on ensuring the long term stability of Increasing investments are undertaken and fixed Forecasts look forward for at least three years and are technological and through acquisition and as a consequence operating systems and data security, whilst keeping pace costs continue to be incurred.
reviewed regularly to ensure sufficient financial headroom developments has varied IT systems across its portfolio.
with the changing face of consumer IT expectations.
exists and to meet the covenant tests set out in the Merlins growth plans include both the roll out and cyber Significant 2014 investment to ensure the Group remains Such systems are integral to the Groups Groups banking facilities.
of existing Midway and LEGOLAND brands, as security compliant with payment card industry standards.
operations and financial reporting integrity.
Merlin maintains strong relationships with a number well as strategic acquisitions when appropriate Additional measures put in place to mitigate the of lenders and keeps the debt markets under review in The Group is conscious of the increasing opportunities present themselves.
The Group increasing threat of cyber security risk.
order to ensure that funding is obtained at the right time threat of cyber crime.
needs to have sufficient cash to fund Regular updates to the Board on the progress of the and at the right price to ensure the availability of funds to these activities.
meet its strategic growth plans.
Lack of liquidity and changes to the global credit market could impact the Groups long term Weather Individual attractions performance can be Increased portfolio hedging as the proportion of Reducing ability to meet current growth targets.
seasonality affected by particularly adverse weather at revenue generated from Asia Pacific and North America key trading periods.
Healthy mix of indoor and outdoor attractions.
Strategy to drive an increased percentage of pre-booked business.
46 47 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents GROUP Financial Review GROUP 2014 2013 Growth Changeat Changeat m mm actualrate% constantrate% Financial Review Revenue 1,249 1,192 57 4.8% 9.6% 1 EBITDA 411 390 21 5.3% 11.0% 2014 WAS ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR FOR MERLIN.
IN THE FACE OF 1, 2 Operating profit 311 290 21 7.1% 13.3% ADVERSE FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES THE COMPANY GREW REVENUES 1 Net finance costs 62 104 42 41.5% BY 4.8%, DRIVING AN INCREASE IN UNDERLYING EBITDA OF 5.3% AND 1 Profit before tax 249 186 63 34.6% GENERATING OPERATING CASH FLOW OF 357 MILLION.
THE GROUP 1 Taxation 70 24 46 195.3% 1 CONTINUED TO fide-LEVER AS A RESULT OF ITS EARNINGS GROWTH Profit for the year 179 162 17 11.1% AND STRONG CASH FLOW GENERATION.
Post-tax exceptional items 17 17 - 4.2% Leverage on net debt to underlying EBITDA 2.3x 2.6x Tradingperformance Over the past four years, the Company has reported growth Like for like revenue grew by 7.1% in 2014.
When combined with in revenue at a compound annual growth rate of 11.8% and the contribution from new attractions and accommodation, total average like for like revenue growth of 4.8%.
revenue grew by 9.6% also on a constant currency basis.
However, the reported revenue growth was suppressed by significant Underlying EBITDA grew by 21 million, or 5.3% to 411 unfavourable movements in foreign exchange rates, resulting in million, despite the significant unfavourable foreign exchange 4.8% reported growth to 1,249 million.
Further detail on the movements.
Underlying growth was 7.8% on a like for like basis, impact of foreign exchange movements is provided overleaf.
increasing to 11.0% with the contribution of new attractions and accommodation, on a constant currency basis.
The reported Visitor numbers grew by 4.9% during the year, reflecting a compound annual growth rate in EBITDA over the past four combination of underlying growth in the existing estate of years was 12.6%.
attractions, as well as the addition of six new Midway attractions.
The existing estate benefited from good weather across all of Merlins operating model is such that increased revenues at the main trading periods in Europe: the phenomenal success existing attractions will flow through to operating profit, subject of The LEGO Movie with its consequent impact on LEGO to expenditure on a number of incremental variable costs, such brand awareness and our ability to successfully leverage specific as direct cost of sales, incremental labour costs and variable rents.
promotional activities: and a strong performance across Resort Operating margins are also impacted by the mix of revenues across Theme Parks.
Our Midway businesses delivered a solid year with attractions, including the impact of foreign exchange translation, as specific challenges in Bangkok, which suffered from political unrest: well as the nature of additional revenues generated by each site.
In 2014, the growth in EBITDA as a percentage of revenue reflected whilst our North American Midways were adversely impacted a healthy conversion of revenue into profit, tempered by increases by the extremely cold weather early in the year which reduced in variable trading costs, new share-based remuneration and visitation and had a knock-on effect on school holiday periods.
corporate costs as a result of the IPO in 2013, along with certain remedial costs to the hotel at LEGOLAND Windsor.
Revenue per capita RPC was 18.15, in line with the prior year 2013: 18.14.
This was driven by general underlying increases Underlying operating profit growth of 21 million and 7.1% was and a positive mix impact with proportionally higher visitation in driven by the growth in EBITDA.
The reported depreciation and the LEGOLAND Parks which bring higher average spend levels.
amortisation charge remained flat year on year at 100 million This was however offset by adverse foreign exchange impacts.
reflecting underlying increases offset by the impact of The Companys focus continues to be on revenue maximisation foreign exchange movements.
rather than specific volume or RPC targets.
Table notes: 1 References to EBITDA, net finance costs, taxation and all other profit measures in the table above and the following commentary are stated on an underlying basis, before exceptional items unless otherwise stated.
Further details are provided of exceptional items on page 114.
2 Operating profit is defined as EBITDA less depreciation and amortisation.
AndrewCarr Details of the Groups accounting policies are contained within the financial statements on pages 104 to 161 and those areas requiring significant judgement Chief Financial Officer in the preparation of the financial statements are summarised on page 110.
Further information regarding the Groups segmental analysis: geographical revenues and assets: and certain operating costs are provided in note 2.1 to the financial statements on pages 111 to 113.
