Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Like-for-like LFL sales for Materials Analysis Scientifique Claisse, thereby enhancing our Operating Review declined by 3% in 2014, whilst reported sales presence within the XRF sample preparation declined by 4%.
Acquisitions contributed four market, primarily for mining, pharmaceutical Materials Analysis percentage points to reported sales growth and industrial applications, whilst also whilst foreign currency exchange movements increasing our sales of consumables used adversely impacted reported sales growth for sample preparation to customers in this by five percentage points.
The integration of this business decline primarily reflected weakness in the is progressing well.
metals, minerals and mining industries and Sales to academic research institutes were first-half weakness in the academic research broadly flat, as the decline experienced Highlights sector, partially offset by sales growth in the in the first half was offset by good growth pharmaceutical and semiconductor sectors.
After a weak first half, Operating profit and operating margins Good growth in pharmaceutical sector.
sales to Chinese universities grew strongly declined on a LFL basis, reflecting low sales, in the second half, benefitting from Weak demand in metals, minerals and adverse product and geographic mix and environmental projects to improve river mining industries.
costs incurred in relation to new product water quality and energy storage across launches in the life science sector.
Flat sales to academic research sector, China.
There was also good growth from with good growth in H2 after weak H1.
Sales to the pharmaceutical sector the UK academic sector in the second half.
increased, driven by growing demand Four bolt-on acquisitions, bringing Demand in the semiconductor sector from biopharmaceutical and generic drug new technologies and customer improved as the year progressed, reflecting manufacturers, particularly in North America, access and supporting life science more favourable market conditions and an though Asia and Europe also grew.
increased rate of new product introductions.
remain significant opportunities in the The acquisition of our distributor in South Sales biopharmaceutical industry, which is already Korea during the second half of 2014 also growing strongly and has around 5,000 contributed to our growth in this sector.
348.8m LFL 3% biotherapeutics drugs in development.
During 2014, we continued our investment 14 348.8 Segment outlook in the development of solutions focussed 13 362.4 on this industry, launching a number of new After three consecutive quarters of sales decline, this segment returned to growth Operating profit platforms, including the Zetasizer Helix, which can be used to characterise protein size and in the fourth quarter and we expect to 53.3m LFL 20% show good progress in 2015, boosted by structure.
Additionally, we completed the acquisitions of MicroCal and the trade new product launches and the acquisitions 14 53.3 made in the past 18 months.
Continued and assets of Affinity Biosensors.
MicroCal 13 63.3 is a leading provider of microcalorimetry investment in new products should deliver progress in the pharmaceutical, life science instruments for material research with Return on sales particular applications in biomolecular and semiconductor sectors, albeit we 15.3% LFL 3.0pp expect slower growth in the Chinese applications, whilst with Affinity Biosensors we obtained the Archimedes instrument, small molecule pharmaceutical market 14 15.3 as compliance with new regulations, which which accurately measures the density 13 17.5 of individual particles, molecules and cells.
generated good growth in 2013 and early 2014, has now been achieved.
We Combined with the acquisition of NanoSight Aftersales in September 2013, these additions to the expect the academic research market to 31% Materials Analysis segment enhance our remain subdued given public sector budget existing portfolio of solutions across the constraints.
Demand from the metals, 14 31 life science market.
minerals and mining sector is expected 13 29 to remain low in 2015: while there are some The metals, minerals and mining sector early signs that demand is stabilising, the Operating companies was challenging in 2014, notably in China, timing of any recovery remains uncertain.
Malvern Instruments Australia and Indonesia where there was a PANalytical significant decline in new commodity-related Particle Measuring Systems infrastructure investment as customers focussed on improving their returns on Group sales % existing investments in the face of slowing global commodity demand.
In addition, many large projects in China were postponed or 30 subject to extended tendering processes and other delays.
We continued to develop new products and applications for this market, launching the upgraded X-Ray Fluorescence x XRF benchtop system, the Epsilon 3.
We have been pleased with the initial Group profit % customer response to this system, and indeed to our entire portfolio of benchtop systems, 27 particularly within the North American market.
In June, we acquired La Corporation Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Strengthening market positions through innovation In February, PANalytical launched the upgraded X-Ray Fluorescence x benchtop system, the Epsilon 3.
This highly exible analytical tool is simple to operate and requires little or no sample preparation.
It is suitable C N O for applications in a wide range of industries such as cement production, mineral analysis and polymer production and provides customers with fast and accurate quality control analysis.
Building our presence in key strategic growth areas, both organically and through acquisition To supplement our increased R&D programme in this segment, Malvern Instruments made two bolt-on acquisitions in July MicroCal and Afnity Biosensors, which further expand our portfolio of solutions across the life science market.
These are described in more detail opposite.
Increasing regional expansion with a focus on emerging markets In September, Particle Measuring Systems acquired the trade and assets of Sudo Premium Engineering Sudo, its exclusive distributor in South Korea and the market leader for environmental monitoring in the South Korean electronics sector.
The acquisition gives Particle Measuring Systems direct access to key customers, offering direct sales, technical support and product service from Sudos facility.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Like-for-like LFL sales for Test and In January 2015, we acquired ReliaSoft, Operating Review Measurement increased by 4% in 2014. a reliability engineering software business Reported sales declined by 2% due to a that will strengthen and extend our Test and Measurement six percentage point adverse impact from existing software applications offering.
Sales to the consumer electronics market LFL operating profit improved by 1% were strong throughout the year, benefitting and operating margins decreased by from large projects in North America and 0.5 percentage points to 15.2%, primarily China as customers seek to enhance the reflecting investments in our engineering audio quality on their electronic devices.
software business and IT infrastructure We see opportunities to grow in this market Highlights together with higher personnel costs.
by providing calibration services, thereby There was good growth in the automotive increasing the resilience of our revenues Good growth in automotive market.
sector, particularly in North America and in a sector where sales patterns are often Japan.
Growth is being driven not only lumpy, driven by large customer projects.
Lower sales to aerospace sector, by the investment cycles of the large reflecting strong comparators and We continued to develop our environmental automotive manufacturers but also rising lower sales to Russia.
noise monitoring business during the year, demand from the industry to understand launching a service called Noise Sentinel Strong demand from consumer the noise and vibration characteristics of on Demand aimed at construction and electronics market.
vehicles and engines in order to gain industrial markets.
This service requires competitive advantages and meet legislative ESG Solutions acquisition creates no capital outlay and is low cost and simple requirements.
The industry also continues new strategic growth platform in to use, enabling clients to focus on data to invest in hybrid and full electric vehicles, microseismic monitoring.
interpretation and providing advice to their including in China where clean energy is a own customers.
Sales priority for the government.
During 2014, we launched important new products targetted In December, we added a third operating 342.9m LFL 4% at this market, such as the MX403B amplifier, company to this segment following our the latest member of HBMs QuantumX acquisition of ESG Solutions ESG.
ESG is 14 342.9 family of systems, which measures the high a leader in the niche market for the provision 13 348.7 voltages associated with electric car batteries, of microseismic monitoring equipment Operating profit and the SomatXR data acquisition system.
and analysis solutions, and its technology Both have been well received to date.
enables oil and gas and mining companies 52.2m LFL 1% to enhance their productivity and improve Whilst overall demand levels from the their return on investment.
14 52.2 aerospace market remain solid, sales declined in 2014 following some particularly large 13 54.8 Segment outlook shipments in 2013 and a second-half decline Return on sales in sales to Russia.
As aerospace companies We expect further progress in 2015, continue to focus on designing the next benefitting from our acquisitions and 15.2% LFL 0.5pp generation of lighter and more fuel-efficient robust market conditions in the automotive, aircraft, we launched new modules for our aerospace and consumer electronics 14 15.2 data analysis software which enable fatigue sectors.
We see increased opportunities 13 15.7 testing of new carbon fibre composite for software applications to support Aftersales materials.
We also purchased an optical innovation in vehicle design and engine sensors business during the fourth quarter, technologies, with our new solutions 20% a bolt-on technology acquisition that will such as PULSE Reflex targetted at these allow HBM to accelerate its growth in optical opportunities.
We expect growing demand 14 20 measurement and monitoring solutions for for measurement equipment to test new 13 21 a wide range of applications, including new composite materials used in automotive Operating companies material development and power systems and aircraft frames.
The consumer Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration within the aerospace, automotive and power electronics market remains attractive with ESG Solutions industries.
We saw significant declines good opportunities for our sound quality HBM in the defence and space market in 2014, testing applications, although a repeat particularly in the second half when the of the large projects in 2014 may not Group sales % imposition of economic sanctions on Russia materialise.
Near-term market conditions meant we were unable to export our in the oil and gas and mining industries vibration test systems for communications are uncertain: however, there are good satellites to this market.
In addition, defence prospects for the increased adoption of budgets have been constrained in most microseismic monitoring solutions in these developed markets.
markets over the coming years.
The space market is likely to remain subdued whilst 29 We saw continued strong growth in demand economic sanctions against Russia remain for our engineering software solutions in place, and defence spending will also Group profit % in 2014.
Customers are increasingly using be constrained by continued pressure software to enhance their productivity on government finances.
by converting engineering and process data into information that enables them to improve the quality, reliability and durability of their products, equipment and processes.
26 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Building our presence in key strategic growth areas, both organically and through acquisition In December 2014, we acquired ESG.
ESGs technology enables its customers, who are primarily in the oil and gas and mining sectors, to optimise production and improve their return on investment.
ESG will benefit from sharing capabilities in sensors, software, data acquisition hardware and analytical software with the other businesses in this segment, and we believe that there is a significant opportunity to strengthen ESGs market position, expand internationally and accelerate its growth, both organically and via further acquisitions.
Focussing on operational excellence HBMs lean manufacturing programme, ProHBM, is driving productivity at the Suzhou facility in China.
The programme was implemented to improve efficiency as costs increase throughout China.
One initiative involved redesigning the production cell system so that all assembly, quality inspection and final packaging is integrated into a single work station.
This has resulted in a 50% reduction in the cycle time for each load cell manufactured.
Strengthening market positions through innovation Brel & Kjrs new lightweight Portable Impedance Meter System measures the acoustic properties of the materials used to help reduce noise from aircraft engines.
This helps manufacturers to develop quieter aircraft in order to meet increasing environmental noise regulations.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Like-for-like LFL sales for In-line Sales to the pulp and paper markets declined Operating Review Instrumentation increased by 3% in 2014 compared to 2013, as market conditions but, after adjusting for a five percentage triggered mill closures, curtailments and In-line Instrumentation point adverse impact from foreign currency fide-stocking activity.
While sales of our exchange movements, reported sales products for tissue applications grew strongly declined by 2%.
Operating margins for the during the year, especially in North America, year were down by 1.2 percentage points this was insufficient to offset lower demand on a LFL basis, reflecting adverse product for graphic coated paper, particularly in mix, primarily in our pulp and paper business.
Trading conditions in China were also negatively impacted by In the energy and utilities market, sales were Highlights project delays and increased price up significantly in 2014 with strong demand competition.
Despite these difficult market in China, driven particularly by legislation conditions we are maintaining our focus Sales increased significantly in energy to reduce emissions, and good growth from on innovation to increase our customers and utilities sector.
the downstream petrochemical markets in productivity, launching products such North America and the Middle East.
We have Sales to pulp and paper market declined, as the PROTO UF tungsten carbide coating launched a new laser gas analyser to this with growth in tissue applications blade to enhance our market position.
sector, announced in the second half of 2014. offset by weakness in coated paper.
This product is smaller and lighter than Segment outlook Creation of NDC Technologies will other products in the market, resulting in a enhance our competitive positioning Overall, we expect further progress from significantly easier and lower cost installation in converting, web and packaging for customers.
In India, we benefitted from this segment in 2015.
Whilst near-term industries, markets where there was trading conditions in the coated paper the continued expansion of one of the good sales growth in 2014. worlds largest petrochemical producers, market are likely to remain challenging, we see good opportunities in the tissue Reliance Industries, with substantial orders Sales received for our gas analysis products.
industry for consumable products such as our creping blades, as well as for We also received a major contract from EDP 261.4m LFL 3% Renewables EDPR North America for the our process control instruments, as 14 261.4 manufacturers continue to seek to supply and retrofit installation of condition 13 265.7 monitoring systems on several hundred wind improve their productivity.
We see good medium-term growth potential across turbines of different OEM brands in the US, Operating profit together with the adoption of VibroSuite, the energy and utilities sector, albeit the near-term outlook for the energy market our monitoring and surveillance software, 48.0m LFL 3% into EDPRs systems.
We have a strong pipeline 14 48.0 of new products and solutions to target In the first half of 2014, we decided to this sector in 2015 and beyond.
In the 13 51.2 merge NDC and Beta LaserMike in order to converting, web and packaging industries, enhance our competitive positioning in the Return on sales new food safety regulations in the US converting, web and packaging industries.
provide good growth opportunities, 18.4% LFL 1.2pp With combined specialised know-how, the whilst we also expect to see incremental new company, renamed NDC Technologies, 14 18.4 benefits from the creation of the new provides customers with a broader product operating company NDC Technologies.
We expect that NDC Technologies will be Aftersales able to increase sales penetration to a number 41% of markets, and the integration of these businesses is progressing well.
During 2014, 14 41 sales to the converting, web and packaging 13 43 industries showed strong growth, particularly in Europe and Asia, benefitting from new Operating companies solutions such as the AccuScan 6012 gauge, Brel & Kjr Vibro the industrys first four-axis diameter and BTG Group ovality gauge for measuring products up NDC Technologies to 12mm.
Servomex Group sales % 22 Group profit % 24 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 34 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Strengthening market positions through innovation In November, NDC Technologies launched the AccuScan 6012 gauge, the industrys first four-axis gauge for measuring products up to 12mm.
Featuring a 25% improvement in aw detection accuracy compared with conventional three-axis gauges, and up to 100% ovality accuracy, manufacturers of extruded products such as medical tubing and high-performance cable can control product quality even more reliably and reduce wastage.
Producing any medical tubing product with an out-of-tolerance diameter or roundness affects the performance of life-critical devices such as catheters, with the result that the unusable product ends up being scrapped, increasing manufacturing costs.
Focussing on operational excellence Servomexs Business System, based around the principles of lean manufacturing and Six Sigma, encourages individuals and teams to identify and 200% drive improvement.
An anticipated increase in demand for the laser product line posed a significant challenge for the laser manufacturing team, who were already working at full capacity.
Having reviewed the existing process, brainstormed ideas and trialled new initiatives, the team managed to increase output by over 200% within two months, creating headroom above demand without adding headcount.
Strengthening market positions through innovation Brel & Kjr Vibros latest compact portable monitoring instrument line, the VIBROTEST VIBROPORT 80, is more powerful, intelligent and lighter than its predecessor.
These handheld vibration measurement tools play an important role in predicting where faults may occur, thus preventing damage to machinery and avoiding unscheduled downtime.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Like-for-like LFL sales for Industrial Controls fuel tank pumping activity to a central server.
Operating Review increased by 5% in 2014 but, after adjusting We are seeing many customers use the for a five percentage point adverse impact Graphite series on their tanks as part of their Industrial Controls from foreign currency exchange movements, digital oilfield initiative and we are expanding reported sales were flat.
LFL operating our production facilities for this business profit grew by 3% and operating margins to increase capacity and take advantage remained above 20%, though they were of growing demand.
We also launched down 0.4 percentage points on a LFL basis a number of new products to strengthen as a result of continued investment in the our industrial networking and factory expansion of Omega Engineering Omega automation offerings.
These included the Highlights and intellectual property-related legal costs.
N-Tron Gigabit Power over Ethernet Plus injector, which allows factories and other Investment in the geographic expansion of industrial sites to add new technology Geographic expansion of Omega Omega is starting to show results with good without disrupting existing networks.
sales performance in 2014, particularly in Asia.
The opening of Omegas Japan office Sales growth for our track, trace and control Significant orders received for our in January 2014 completed the initial phase products improved as the year progressed.
of our Asian expansion programme.
Since This reflected easier comparator figures in the Good demand for track, trace and then we have further strengthened our second half, together with increased activity control products as contract electronics presence in Europe and Asia through from our major electronics customers and the manufacturers scale up facilities for additional investment in digital marketing, successful launch in mid-2014 of AutoVISION new product launches.
development of sales staff and local 3.0, our latest intuitive and easy-to-use operational capabilities in these regions.
machine vision solution that automates tasks Sales In the latter part of 2014, we launched such as inspection, gauging and counting, a new ERP system across Omegas global and reads barcodes and optical characters.
This will greatly enhance 14 220.6 Omegas back-office processes and give Segment outlook 13 221.0 faster and improved insight into daily orders We expect to see further growth in this and sales.
During 2014, we also increased segment in the coming year and beyond.
Operating profit the number of new product introductions, We will continue to leverage our investment both through private label products and 44.6m LFL 3% in Omega and increase our emphasis on internal development.
For example, in late new product development and innovation.
14 44.6 2014 a new wireless transmitter and The need for our customers to improve Omega app was released which allows 13 45.4 productivity and efficiency is expected customers to use their smartphones or to result in increased demand for factory Return on sales tablets as a data logger for temperature, automation and industrial networking pH and humidity.
20.2% LFL 0.4pp products, particularly in China where This segment saw particularly strong growth there is a drive to improve the return 14 20.2 in 2014 from sales into the supply chain on previous capital investments.
13 20.6 supporting the North American oil and gas sector, where our Graphite series of display Aftersales panels has developed a good position in the 1% fuel distribution market.
These displays are rugged and robust and provide an interface 14 1 for operators to communicate and control 13 3 Operating companies Microscan Omega Engineering Red Lion Controls Group sales % 19 Group profit % 23 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 36 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Strengthening market positions through innovation Red Lion Controls has added the N-Tron Series Gigabit Power over Ethernet Plus injectors to its portfolio of industrial networking solutions.
These compact injectors are ideal for space-constrained applications and deliver both power and data over a single ethernet cable, thus eliminating the need for additional power cables.
Gigabit ethernet is becoming the standard in industrial networking, and these products are particularly suitable for video security and other applications requiring high-speed communications.
Increasing regional expansion with a focus on emerging markets Opened In September 2011, we acquired the Omega in Japan Engineering business, a leading supplier of process measurement and control instrumentation to customers in industrial and academic markets.
Since the acquisition, we have expanded Omegas presence from a predominantly US-centric business to a more global customer base, with a particular focus on emerging markets.
Strengthening market positions through innovation Microscans new CloudLink interface enables users to monitor product barcode inspections performed by its AutoVISION software and smart cameras remotely.
This easily customisable machine vision tool improves productivity by allowing the user to see the results immediately on any web-enabled device such as PCs, tablets and smartphones.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37
