ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 oPeRAting RevieW Record fundraising year across products and a record period of realisations leaves third party Aum up 8%.
third party mezzanine Funds A key measure of the success of our strategy groW our assets to grow the fund management business is Third party mezzanine funds under our ability to grow assets under management.
management have decreased by 16% to under management New AUM inflows is our best lead indicator to 3.7bn in the period due to the realisation sustainable future fee streams and therefore of assets in the older European and Asia increasing the profitability of the FMC.
At 3.8bn, we have had another record On the fundraising front, since the year end breaking fundraising year, raising more third we have had a $450m first close on our US party money in a single financial year than Private Debt fund, which included $200m ever before, across multiple products and from ICG.
We have also recently begun in multiple geographies.
Of this, 45% of tomarket our third Asia Pacific fund the fundraising was in relation to first time andweexpect a first close during FY15.
funds, introducing brand new sustainable fee Preparations are also well advanced for the streams to the Group.
As these funds charge launch of a domestic Japanese mezzanine fees on invested capital the fees will ramp up fund through our 50:50 partnership with during the investment period.
This strategic partnership was evidence that the investment made in recent signed in November 2013 and will facilitate years is helping us to deliver our strategy.
the structuring and distribution of new After a sustained period of low realisations, domestic mezzanine investments and we saw a significant increase in the number fundsin Japan.
of realisations during the year.
The cash generated from these realisations is proving credit Funds to be a competitive advantage enabling the Third party credit funds under management Group to invest in developing a broad range have increased 15% to 5.7bn, with the new of new products.
AUM of 3.0bn raised in the year outstripping the runoff of our older CLO funds and a In the year to 31 March 2014, AUM increased reduction in private mandates.
0.4% to 13.0bn as the outflows from the high level of realisations offset the fundraising The growth of AUM is directly attributable to inflows.
As expected, the impact of realising the success of our direct lending product, the older, pre 2010, assets has been felt Senior Debt Partners, which raised 1.3bn principally by the balance sheet portfolio, during the year.
Aligned to this product is down 24%, as the balance sheet had a mandate of 163m 191m of Business contributed more than third party funds to Finance Partnership funds received from each investment.
Third party funds have HMTreasury, which will be invested in mid increased 8% to 10.7bn.
