Overview of the year Operational and strategic report We now consist of a lean, well capitalised, focused Specialist Bank and strong Asset Management and Wealth & Investment businesses Refl ecting on the 2014 fi financial year, we are pleased that signifi cant progress was made in reshaping and simplifying the group and dealing with a number of legacy issues.
The groups core businesses have sound franchises which have continued to broaden their client bases and grow organically.
Can you give us an overview What have been the key How did the operating of the groups performance areas of focus from a environment support for the fi financial year?
The group achieved an If we refl ect on our strategic During the period we experienced increase in operating profi t of priorities from a year ago, an improved operating 6.0% to 451.8 million 2013: momentum in Asset Management environment across all areas of 426.3million a 20.3% increase on was maintained and the Wealth & operation, although the strength of Pounds a currency neutral basis.
Adjusted EPS Investment business made good progress Sterling against other operating currencies increased 5.3% from 36.1 pence to in organically growing its market share impacted overall results.
38.0pence a 19.7% increase on a and internationalising its offering.
As part Global environment currency neutral basis.
Distributions to of our strategy to improve returns in the shareholders increased from 18 pence to Specialist Bank, the past year has seen Equity market returns in 2013 were the 19 pence resulting in a dividend cover of signifi cant time and resources being spent strongest since 2009 as central banks 2.0 times 2013: 2.0 times.
on simplifying the business model and maintained an accommodative monetary clearly articulating the legacy book.
We also saw improved consumer Overall group results have been negatively UK, wehave reduced or closed non-core confi dence and business sentiment in impacted by the depreciation of the Rand businesses, sold the Trust businesses, sold both the UK and US, but global economic of approximately 20% against our reporting Lease Direct Finance, integrated Investment growth remained below the long-term trend.
The combined Banking and Securities into the Institutional In Australia, slower mining demand and a South African business reported operating and Corporate Banking business and squeeze on domestic expenditure through profi t of 25.3% ahead of the prior year in commenced a process for the sale of the the fi scal consolidation programme took its Rands, while the combined UK business Kensington business.
We are also starting toll on the pace of output expansion.
posted a 24.4% increase in operating profi t. to see the benefi ts of growing the UK The UK economy has experienced a strong Private Banking offering and enhancing the Wealth & Investments operating profi t 01 recovery over the past year as a result franchise businesses in the Corporate and increased by 30.5%.
Asset Management of increased confi dence, easier access Institutional Banking area.
reported operating profi t marginally ahead to credit and better global economic of the prior year.
Both divisions benefi ted In Australia, we have sold the Professional conditions.
Most sectors and regions of the from higher levels of average funds under Finance and Asset Finance and Leasing economy are now showing positive growth management and net infl ows of 4.0billion.
businesses subject to regulatory trends, with recent signs that business This has resulted in recurring income approval.
The remaining entity will operate investment is also starting to pick up.
There amounting to 70.7% of total operating as a non-bank fi financial services company are, however, risks to the UK's outlook as a income 2013: 68.6%.
It will no longer be result of global developments and lacklustre supervised by the Australian Prudential growth in the Eurozone.
With the Eurozone Both the South African and UK Specialist Regulation Authority thus eliminating cost crisis far from being fully resolved, the UK Banking businesses reported operating and infrastructure.
The Australian business continues to be exposed to an extended profi t in excess of 29.0% in home will now focus on corporate services period of subdued activity in the region.
This was as a result of a solid providing advice, capital and hedging to performance from the majority of the clients and funds management, primarily businesses in South Africa and a signifi cant property and aviation.
decline in impairments in the UK business.
18 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Overview of the year Operational and strategic report continued clients, and has made progress in leveraging South Africa off the global investment platform.
How did the three Since 1994, living standards have improved core areas of activity and interest rates and infl ation have fallen We will drive ongoing performance in this materially, with both real economic growth perform?
business by continuing to build critical and GDP per capita rising.
However, the mass in future growth areas.
The focus is growth outlook for 2014 is now at risk on developing the offshore offering and as the interest rate cycle has turned with the private offi ce service to high net worth All three key businesses the South African Reserve Bank raising clients while leveraging the groups private achieved growth during the its infl ation forecasts following substantial client and global investment platforms.
fi financial year with Asset Rand weakness.
Further, the slowdown Management and Wealth & Investment Specialist Banking of growth in China will result in noticeably contributing 46.4% to group operating lower demand for South African exports profi t. For the 2014 fi financial year, the Specialist and could surpass the benefi ts from Banking business increased operating strengthening US demand.
Asset Management profi t 2.8% to 241.9 million 2013: 235.2million.
For the 2014 fi financial year, Asset 2014 marks two decades of democratic Management increased operating freedom for South Africa.
The transition The South African Specialist Banking profi t by 2.4% to 143.8 million to a democratic society has resulted in business reported operating profi t up 2013:140.4million, benefi ting from clear economic and social gains including 29.2% in Rands, benefi ting from an higher funds under management and net a doubling in the size of the real economy increase in corporate fees and greater infl ows of 2.6billion.
Total funds under and substantial rollout of basic services income from customer fl ow.
The loan book management amounted to 68.0 billion and social welfare.
We remain committed grew by 10.6% and the unlisted private 2013:69.8billion.
The sale of a 15% not only to economic transformation but equity and property portfolios delivered a stake in the business to management also to social transformation and to the sound performance.
We will continue to was successfully completed in July 2013 corrective strategies as set out in our build the franchise in core client segments for the purposes of ensuring continuity updated Employment Equity Plan for focusing on cross-selling across different and to retain and incentivise the senior the period 2013 to 2017.
Recognising client bases, a more targeted approach management team.
that enterprise development is vital to to servicing the corporate market and South Africas transformation aspirations, continuing to rollout our Africa strategy.
Market cycles and price movements can we further enhanced our Enterprise affect this business in the short term but Development programme by providing The UK business grew 29.9% with the quality management are continually investing and grants to entrepreneurs who are managing of income improving.
The Corporate Advisory building for the next phase of growth in line and growing their own businesses and have business and the principal investment with a clear long-term strategy.
potential to create further jobs.
Goodgrowth was 01 recorded in the professional and specialised Wealth & Investment South Africa has a sound fi financial structure, lending and asset fi finance portfolios.
Levels macro-economic and fi scal framework Wealth & Investment benefi ted from a of transactional activity within the Private and a well-developed corporate sector in rise in equity markets with operating Banking and Corporate and Institutional diverse industries.
The country now enters profi t increasing 30.5% to 66.1 million Banking businesses were mixed, but with a a new 20-year phase of development and 2013: 50.7 million.
The bank looks to reduce the effective implementation of the National was supported by higher average funds excess liquidity and to gain market share in Development Plan is critical for continuing under management, improved operating niches where we believe we can compete the progress already made.
margins and net infl ows of 1.4 billion.
Total funds under management have Looking forward, the future performance of grown to 41.5billion 2013: 40.4 billion.
The business in the UK has expanded its the Specialist Banking business will not only be driven by managing down the legacy operations across the region through the investment in infrastructure and senior talent.
portfolios but, more importantly, through a coordinated and concerted effort to grow Further, the South African business has benefi ted from a seamless offering to both the core business organically.
Wealth & Investment and Private Banking Investec integrated annual report 2014 19 Overview of the year Operational and strategic report continued We are continuing to build Investec into a high quality, client-driven organisation that is relevant in its core markets Can you give us a summary How do you balance driving of the year in review from a profi ts with corporate risk perspective?
From a board perspective, we bid a fond The group has a strong culture of At Investec we believe we have a risk and capital management responsibility that extends beyond farewell to Sam Abrahams who did not seek re-election as a director at the 2013 entrenched into daily operations, that of driving shareholder value.
including the intimate involvement of senior We believe that we can have a positive annual general meeting.
We thank Sam for his invaluable contribution to Investec for executive.
We continue to maintain healthy impact on the success and wellbeing of capital and leverage ratios and have a local communities, the environment and almost two decades.
The composition of the board is regularly reviewed to ensure robust liquidity profi le.
The groups core loan on overall macro-economic stability which book has grown moderately in home is vital if we are to maintain a sustainable the appropriate balance of knowledge, expertise and independence is maintained, currencies and remains suffi ciently business in the long term.
Over the past diversifi ed with the majority of the book year, we have received a number of awards and several changes will be proposed at the 2014 annual general meeting.
comprising high net worth and private client recognising our efforts in this regard.
These lending and corporate lending.
Impairments include winning the Chairmans Cup at on loans and advances decreased from the Clean City Awards Scheme in the UK 251.0million to 166.2 million, and the and our inclusion in the Climate Disclosure percentage of default loans to core loans Leadership Index in South Africa.
Alongside our corporate responsibility We have low equity and investment risk is our internal aspiration to provide our exposures, and proprietary market risk clients with an Out of the Ordinary within our trading portfolio is modest.
Consequently, we are continually developing the profi ciency We continue to spend a large amount of 01 of our people as well as attracting and time and effort on operational, reputational, retaining talent.
We are also investing in conduct, recovery and resolution risks.
technology by building a strong digital In the year ahead, we are increasing our platform to complement the skills of our focus on stress testing and have appointed capable management and staff, and ensure an external adviser to assist in this regard.
we provide our niche client base with the Thecurrent regulatory and economic highest level of service.
environment continues to prove challenging, but our robust risk management processes and systems provide a strong foundation to manage and mitigate any concerns.
20 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Overview of the year Operational and strategic report continued What is your strategic focus and outlook for the coming year?
The group has navigated very A signifi cant contribution to the growth uncertain waters over the past and development of our people, few years which have reminded communities and broader society.
us about who we are and what we stand Economic conditions in the developed for.
We are continuing to build Investec into world have continued to improve.
The UK a high quality, client-driven organisation that economy has gained momentum which is relevant in its core markets.
is evident in the increased activity levels Our focus over the next year will be to experienced by our businesses.
The South execute our key strategic initiatives so that African economy is going through a period Investec, going forward, will be recognised of weakness.
However, we are still seeing as an agile, innovative, service-driven encouraging levels of activity across our organisation providing: client base.
Quality products and services to The signifi cant restructuring effort that has ourclients taken place over the past year, together with ongoing strategic initiatives, should Above average returns to our enable us to benefi t from the upturn in shareholders global economic conditions and generate appropriate returns for our shareholders.
01 On behalf of the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited Sir David J Prosser Fani Titi Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Joint chairman Joint chairman Chief executive offi cer Managing director References to operating profi t in the text above relates to operating profi t before taxation, goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items and after other non-controlling interests.
The operational and strategic report provides an overview of our strategic position, performance during the fi financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read together with the sections that follow on pages 22 to 163 as well as volume two, which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
