Operational review A busy period: expanding our partnerships and identifying opportunities During 2014, the Group continued to Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited Oxford Nanopore completed a significantly oversubscribed 35m strengthen its financial position and fundraising round and launched a community-focused expand its access to commercialisable access programme - the MinION Access Programme - to science, both in the UK and the US, in allow researchers to begin using its nanopore sequencing order to pursue its purpose of evolving technology.
All aspects of the technology have been trialled, improved and developed during the programme with the great ideas into world-changing changes leading to an increase in performance and helping businesses.
This will remain our focus to expand the range of applications being developed by for 2015 and beyond.
In late 2014, publications outlining novel applications for the MinION began to appear.
Two waves of Fusion IP plc Fusion IP is now fully integrated within participants joined the programme during the year and, at the the Group and we are already benefitting from the beginning of 2015, Oxford Nanopore opened the programme additional expertise and the larger, more diversified to fresh applications.
portfolio that this acquisition has brought to the business.
Modern Biosciences plc MBS, the Groups 61.1% owned The March 2015 placing of 128m before expenses subsidiary, agreed a collaboration with Johnson & Johnson will enable the Group to deploy further capital into its Innovation Centre and Janssen Biotech, Inc in relation to portfolio companies as well as allowing it to expand its MBS lead programme for the development of novel access to research and compelling commercialisation bone-protective compounds in the treatment of rheumatoid opportunities across all its sectors in the UK and the US.
The collaboration could be worth up to 176m Three core objectives support the Groups purpose: to comprising an upfront payment, an option fee exercisable create and maintain a pipeline of compelling intellectual after or during the Phase 1 programme and  opportunities, to develop and support related milestone payments.
Assuming developmental and these opportunities into a diversified portfolio of robust regulatory success, the majority of the 176m could be businesses and to deliver attractive financial returns on received over the next 7-10 years.
In addition, MBS will our assets and third party funds.
Our performance against receive royalties on any future sales of products that these objectives is considered in more detail below.
may result from the alliance upon successful launch and Alan Aubrey Chief Executive Officer commercialisation of any treatment.
During the year, MBS was also awarded a further 2.4m grant by the UK Governments Biomedical Catalyst.
With respect to the portfolio acquired with Fusion IP, Portfolio company performance Diurnal Limited successfully completed Phase 2 trials for The fair value of the Groups portfolio increased to 349.9m the treatment of Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia, and raised 2013: 285.9m across 90 businesses that are supported 6m to support Phase 3 trials, while MedaPhor Group plc, and managed by four specialist sector teams.
Tracsis plc, Ilika a provider of advanced ultrasound education and training plc and new entrants to AIM Xeros Technology Group plc, simulators for medical professionals, successfully floated on Actual Experience plc and MedaPhor Group plc all contributed AIM.
Overall, however, due to fair value reductions in a few significantly to an uplift in the fair value of the portfolio.
However, of the private companies, the Groups holdings in spin-out there were some reductions in fair value, which were primarily due companies from Fusion IPs partnerships experienced a net to the negative share price performance of some of the quoted fair value reduction of approximately 2m.
We remain positive companies with Applied Graphene Materials plc, Retroscreen about the prospects for the businesses over the long term.
Virology Group plc and Avacta Group plc among the most Further detailed analysis is provided in the Portfolio review on significant detractors.
Some of the key developments of the pages 18 to 29.
Groups portfolio companies during the year were as follows: IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 16 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Strategic Report Our Performance Strategic Report Our Performance Supporting our portfolio companies Maintaining a strong pipeline A key differentiator for the Group in its sectors, and an integral The Group seeks to maintain a pipeline of new opportunities part of its business model, is the active involvement of its people across a wide variety of scientific disciplines and we continue to in the development of its spin-out companies.
During the early see many potentially exciting IP commercialisation opportunities stages of an opportunity, members of the Groups team work across all of our partnerships.
In 2014, 10 opportunities received closely with its founders to help shape its strategic direction, initial incubation or seed funding during the year 2013: 8.
At often taking an interim management role until such time as is the end of 2014, we completed our first spin-out in the US from it is appropriate to recruit a full external leadership team.
The our partnership with the University of Pennsylvania.
The Group Groups business-building team members continue to provide agreed to provide initial capital of up to $1m for a significant strategic guidance in an executive or non-executive capacity.
The minority stake in Exyn Technologies Inc. which has developed Group currently has board representation on more than 80% of software to control multi-sensory rotorcraft micro aerial vehicles the portfolio companies.
IP Exec, the Groups specialist in-house as well as communication between flying vehicles.
executive search function, assists portfolio companies with the Deploying capital to support our portfolio recruitment of experienced and able leadership, sourcing high An important component of the Groups business model is its quality candidates from a range of backgrounds and disciplines.
ability to support both its existing portfolio companies and new During the year, IP Exec expanded its team to support the early-stage opportunities through the provision of patient capital.
Groups portfolio companies more effectively and placed 16 The 97.4m net of expenses raised by the Group through senior executives with the Groups portfolio companies during the issue of new equity at the beginning of the year, added the year, an increase on the previous year.
IP Impact, which has further strength to the Groups financial position and, as per our developed a series of innovative programmes to work with CEOs commitment at that time, the rate of capital deployment into and boards of portfolio companies, has also had a successful our portfolio companies increased significantly to 46.8m for year and continues to contribute to the Groups growth.
The Group also assisted its portfolio from more than 20 of the Groups portfolio companies have now companies to access capital from a variety of sources and, participated in these specialist programmes.
In 2014, the Groups during the year, they raised approximately 165m, in aggregate specialist business support team provided administrative services 2013: 160m.
The 128m total capital raising announced today to 42 of the Groups portfolio companies.
will enable the Group to continue this trend towards increased Expanding and nurturing our partnerships support for its most promising portfolio company holdings both IP Groups ability to access a wide range of innovative scientific in the UK and US.
research, by creating and developing long-term relationships with In addition, the Group provides capital from its managed funds: leading research institutions in the UK and US, are considered Top Technology Ventures Limited, the Groups FCA-regulated to be an important element of its business model.
Some of our subsidiary, manages three venture capital funds IP Venture achievements in 2014 in this regard are highlighted below: Fund, The North East Technology Fund NETF and IP Venture At the beginning of the year, the Group announced that it Fund II, with assets under management totalling 85m at 31 had expanded its proof of concept partnership with the December 2014.
IP Venture Fund, which is no longer making University of Manchester to include graphene projects and investments in new portfolio companies, achieved realisations of had extended the term to 2019.
Having launched in 2013, IP Venture Fund II has invested a total of 4.5m across 17 spin-out companies alongside During the year, the number of US partnerships was increased the Group.
NETF completed a total of 32 investments during the following the signing of an IP commercialisation agreement with year into companies in the North East of England bringing its Princeton University.
The partnership, which has an initial pilot total investments since inception close to its committed capital phase of 18 months, will concentrate on developing early-stage, of 25m.
The Group has access to additional follow-on finance proof of principle opportunities based on intellectual property for technology companies in the North East of England during developed at the university.
The Group now has partnerships 2015. with three Ivy League universities in the US including the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia University.
Outlook In November, the Group formed a pilot initiative with Leading research institutions in the UK and the US continue FedIMPACT to identify and develop early-stage technologies to carry out world-class research and this provides a wealth of from a select group of US Department of Energy DOE scientific discoveries for the Group to seek to commercialise Laboratories.
FedIMPACT will combine its insight and alongside its partners.
The sector in which the Group operates knowledge of the DOE network with IP Groups unique model appears to have attracted a number of new entrants during the of commercialising early-stage technology.
period and, as a result, the availability of, and competition for, capital and opportunities has increased.
However, IP Group has The Groups first commercialisation contract was signed with the a solid track record, experienced board and senior management University of Oxfords Department of Chemistry in 2000 and will team and a strong financial position including 97.3m of cash and expire in November 2015.
The Group will continue to benefit from a diverse portfolio valued at 349.9m and this gives the Board access to spin-out companies arising from the University of Oxfords confidence that the Company has the necessary credentials to Institute of Biomedical Engineering IBME as a result of its strategic continue to exploit this significant opportunity and ultimately stake in, and informal commercialisation alliance with, Technikos deliver attractive returns to shareholders over the long term.
LLP Technikos, a venture capital fund specialising in early-stage medical technologies.
Technikos long-term commercial agreement with the IBME is in place until 2023.
The acquisition of Fusion IP has enabled a greater degree of exposure to spin-out opportunities emanating from its four partner universities.
