Operational review Richard Heaton, Exploration Director Balanced portfolio of opportunities Where we are focused The Atlantic Margin, formed together with associated rift basins in the break-up of the Pangaea supercontinent millions of years ago, provides a range of underexplored and mature hydrocarbon basins of Mesozoic and Tertiary age with common geologic themes and promising opportunities for organic growth.
Focusing on this area enables the creation of a balanced portfolio, aligning the Companys proven experience in passive margin and rift basin exploration with its operational capability in frontier areas, including Arctic and deepwater capability.
Cairns mostly operated interests in frontier exploration opportunities lie along the Atlantic Margins offshore North West Africa, Republic of Ireland and Greenland and are balanced by its mainly non-operated exploration and development interests Cairn has built a balanced portfolio of opportunities in in the more mature and emerging basins in the UK and Norway.
Cairns operated Atlantic Margin a mixture of frontier, emerging and mature basins which exploration drilling programme, which commenced offer the opportunity for sustained organic growth and in Morocco in 2013 and continued in Morocco and Senegal throughout 2014, targeted various value delivery.
Mesozoic age passive margin play types at a number of locations.
Across the portfolio Cairn seeks to acquire significant The success of the programme in the discoveries acreage positions, at appropriate equity levels, in areas made by the two wells drilled offshore Senegal has we believe have high technical and commercial potential attracted the attention of the industry by opening up a new hydrocarbon basin in the Atlantic Margin.
and where, in the case of initial success, we have financial Cairn looks to capitalise on this success in 2015 and capability to leverage our knowledge and create value.
2016 with further exploration and appraisal activity.
We continually evaluate the entire portfolio to ensure that our equity is at appropriate levels to offer potential growth opportunities.
Eurasia N. America Richard Heaton Director of Exploration Africa S. America 9 March 2015 Illustrative geological reconstruction of the world 175 million years ago 22 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Focused on three regions Atlantic Margin North West Europe Mediterranean Along the underexplored coast of North West Over the last two years Cairn has built a strong As part of its longer-term frontier exploration Africa, from Senegal to Morocco, Cairns acreage position in the UK and Norway with interests in programme, Cairn has also acquired interests position has been created in the deeper water two major UK North Sea developments, Catcher in a number of opportunities in the Mediterranean areas adjacent to shelf acreage where a number of and Kraken, and a third development, Skarfjell, area, most recently completing a seismic survey early wells were drilled during the 1960s and 70s.
in the earlier stage of planning in Norway.
The deeper water areas remain Many of these wells encountered petroleum underexplored, yet with hydrocarbons in some form, demonstrating the potential for Around these fields Cairn has continued to build demonstrated in a number of plays and modern a working hydrocarbon system, but without an exploration portfolio to leverage its subsurface 3D data starting to unlock new potential, confirming any commercially viable discoveries.
knowledge and operational synergies to access the basin offers a number of opportunities Now, utilising modern 3D seismic data and the the maximum commercial value of each area.
for discovery and attractive fiscal terms.
drilling capability available through dynamically In parallel, Cairn is applying for operatorship positioned rigs, Cairns recent programme and in Norway and has more recently entered the success in Senegal has opened up a new and emerging Barents Sea region, where Cairns emerging hydrocarbon basin.
Arctic operational expertise can be combined with its geoscience knowledge.
A similar exploration theme encompasses the Companys acreage offshore Republic of The UK and Norwegian continental shelves Ireland, and Greenland where any future plans offer the potential for a balanced portfolio of will require additional partners.
opportunities involving a mixture of mature and emerging basins which themselves offer the potential for growth but also benefit from a particularly active and proven market for the efficient trading of assets and associated value creation.
GREENLAND Barents Sea UK and Norwegian North Sea NORWAY REPUBLIC OF IRELAND UK FRANCE SPAIN Mediterranean MALTA MOROCCO The Atlantic Margin MAURITANIA SENEGAL Active assets Other assets Atlantic Margin Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Operational review continued C airn discovered oil in both wells of its Senegal exploration programme, opening a new hydrocarbon basin on the Atlantic Margin.
Senegal The second exploration well, SNE-1, located in Overview Cairn discovered oil in both wells of its Senegal 1,100m water depth and 100km offshore in the exploration programme, opening a new hydrocarbon Sangomar Offshore block, was targeting the Shelf basin on the Atlantic Margin.
Wire line logging of SNE-1 confirmed Atlantic Margin hydrocarbons in the Cretaceous clastics objective Cairns frontier Atlantic Margin The first exploration well, FAN-1 located in 1,427m which is of similar age to oil-bearing sands found exploration strategy is focused water depth and 100km offshore in the Sangomar approximately 24km away in FAN-1.
Initial analysis along the multiple play types Deep block, reached a Target Depth of 4,927m and of the SNE-1 well indicates: was targeting multiple stacked deepwater fans.
95m gross oil bearing column with a gas cap.
formed from the break-up of The well encountered a very substantial oil bearing Excellent reservoir sands with net oil pay of 36m.
the supercontinent Pangaea, interval that materially upgrades the prospectivity Oil of 32 API from samples of gas, oil and water with success most recently of the block with a proven petroleum system and a recovered to surface.
number of deep fan and shelf prospects established.
Preliminary estimates of the Contingent Preliminary analysis indicates: Resource range from P90 150 mmbbls, P50 330 29m of net oil-bearing reservoir in Cretaceous mmbbls to P10 670 mmbbls recoverable.
Senegal 1 licence No water contact was encountered in a gross oil Notices of the two discoveries were submitted to the Morocco 3 licences bearing interval of more than 500m.
Following Republic of Ireland 3 licences Distinct oil types ranging from 28 API up to 41 a six month period to plan a future work programme, Greenland 4 licences API indicated so far from a number of oil samples the JV will submit an evaluation plan in May 2015. recovered to surface.
Based on early evaluation, the JV currently envisages Mauritania 1 licence Initial gross STOIIP estimates for FAN-1 range three firm and three optional wells to begin in 2015. from P90 250 mmbbls, P50 950 mmbbls to P10 2014 activity 2,500 mmbbls and are broadly in line with Cairn has a 40% WI as Operator in three blocks 2 operated wells offshore Senegal pre-drill STOIIP estimates.
offshore Senegal Sangomar Deep, Sangomar 1 operated well offshore Morocco and Offshore and Rufisque : ConocoPhillips has 35% WI, 1 non-operated well completed 2015 FAR Limited 15% WI and Petrosen, the national oil offshore Western Sahara company of Senegal, 10%.
The three blocks cover 3D seismic survey offshore Republic of Ireland 2 7,490km.
Discover more: Our assets www.
com operations Atlantic Margin 24 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Morocco penetrated 14m of net gas and condensate pay in Greenland Offshore Morocco, we operate two exploration clastic reservoirs over a gross hydrocarbon bearing Cairn remains encouraged by the opportunity in the permits and are also a non-operator partner in one interval of approximately 500m.
The discovery was Pitu exploration block Cairn WI 87.5%, Operator, exploration permit.
non-commercial and the well has been plugged and with combined prospects within the 3D area abandoned.
The permit is operated by Kosmos and confirming a potential multi-billion barrel of oil Our first well in the programme offshore Morocco, partnered by ONHYM.
Any future drilling FD-1 Cairn 50% WI, Operator in the Foum Draa plans would require additional partners in this region.
licence, was plugged and abandoned in December Mauritania 2013.
The well established a working hydrocarbon Work continues to mature block C-19 Cairn 35% WI system with a thermogenic source rock.
However, the offshore Mauritania towards drilling.
Interpretation anticipated target reservoirs were not encountered.
of the proprietary 3D data has been completed, with four drill-ready prospects identified, each with over The JM-1 well Cairn 37.5% WI, Operator drilled in 400 mmbbls of gross mean prospective resources the Juby Maritime licence to evaluate Upper Jurassic Chariot Oil & Gas Operator estimates.
and Middle Jurassic objectives reached a total depth of 3,711m TVDSS and was plugged and abandoned Republic of Ireland 2 without testing in March 2014.
In the Upper Jurassic A 900km 3D seismic survey was completed in section, the well confirmed the presence of heavy oil Q3 2014 on acreage adjacent to the Spanish Point over a gross interval of 110m as originally tested in discovery on Frontier Exploration Licence FEL the 1968 MO-2 well, some 2km from the JM-1 well.
A planned appraisal Reservoir quality and the oil gravity in the Upper exploration well on FEL 2 04 offshore West of Jurassic across the Cap Juby structure is undergoing Republic of Ireland, has been deferred pending further evaluation by JV partners Office National discussions with partners and the Government Des Hydrocarbures et Des Mines ONHYM and of the Republic of Ireland.
Work is also ongoing to correlate the core and log data from JM-1 with other wells on Cap Juby to evaluate the extent of moveable hydrocarbons and to determine whether any further work should be conducted.
The CB-1 well Cairn 20% WI commenced drilling in the Cap Boujdour licence offshore Western Sahara in December 2014, targeting the Al Khayr prospect following a 3D seismic survey earlier in the year.
It was announced in March 2015 that the CB-1 exploration well encountered hydrocarbons.
The well Rob Jones, Cairn Regional Director Sanco Sword vessel used to acquire 3D Africa, Mamadou Faye, Petrosen General seismic data off West coast of Ireland Manager, Simon Thomson, Cairn CEO and in 2014.
Matt Fox, ConocoPhillips Executive Vice President Exploration and Production left to right.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Operational review continued Mediterranean Overview Overview As part of our longer term frontier exploration programme, Cairn has acquired interests in a number of opportunities in the Mediterranean area.
Mediterranean North West Europe A 2D seismic survey was completed offshore Malta As part of its frontier exploration Over the last two years Cairn in April 2014 Cairn 60% WI, Operator where programme Cairn has interests has built a strong position in the the deeper water areas remain underexplored.
in the Mediterranean with Hydrocarbons have been demonstrated in a number UK and Norway with interests of plays in the area and with modern seismic data a seismic survey recently in two major UK North Sea starting to unlock new potential: the basin offers a completed offshore Malta.
developments, Catcher and number of opportunities for discovery.
Cairn has also Kraken, and a third development, made applications for acreage offshore the Gulf of Skarfjell, in the earlier stage of Lion and the Bay of Biscay in Spain.
Malta 1 Exploration Study Agreement Spain 4 licences France 2 licences Countries UK 20 licences 2014 activity Norway 14 licences 2D seismic survey offshore Malta 2014 activity Discover more: Our assets 4 non-operated wells in UK and www.
com operations Norwegian North Sea Participated in UK 28th Licensing Round and Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round Entered Barents Sea region Applied for Norwegian operatorship Discover more: Our assets www.
com operations Artemis Atlantic vessel used to acquire 2D seismic data offshore Malta, 2014.
26 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information C airn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway by acquiring exploration, appraisal and development assets and participating in licence rounds.
UK and Norwegian North Sea Kraken Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and The Kraken field EnQuest Operator 60%, Cairn In 2014, the company participated in three Norway by acquiring exploration, appraisal and 25%, First Oil 15% was discovered in 1985 in block non-operated wells: development assets and participating in licence 9 2b of the UK North Sea, followed by the Kraken Aragon exploration well Cairn 32.5% WI licence rounds.
The mature basins of the North Sea provide North field in 2013.
Combined, these two fields make P1763 in UK North Sea plugged and abandoned balance to the broader exploration portfolio and will up the Kraken development.
The JV is continuing to in Q4 2014 deliver free cash flow to sustain future exploration.
evaluate additional opportunities in the block.
Ensis prospect Cairn 25% WI PL393B in the The North Sea is an active market for asset Barents Sea plugged and abandoned in Q3 2014 transactions enabling Cairn to continually optimise The FDP for the Kraken development was approved Atlas prospect Cairn 20% WI PL420 in the its position within the region as well as its wider by DECC in 2013 and the FPSO vessel, which will Skarfjell area plugged and abandoned in capital allocation.
be capable of processing 80,000 bopd, is currently Q4 2014 under construction in Singapore.
The field is located Kraken and Catcher, two of the largest ongoing 350km north east of Aberdeen and 125km east In 2015, the current programme of non-operated development projects in the UK North Sea are the of the Shetland Islands in water depths of 115m.
wells in the North Sea is: Groups core development projects and a third, the Development drilling will start in 2015 with 25 wells West of Kraken, UK North Sea EnQuest Skarfjell discovery in Norway, is in the early stages expected to be drilled over more than four years.
Operator, Cairn 25% WI operations are ongoing of development planning.
Kraken and Catcher will First oil is anticipated in 2016 17 with net peak Crossbill, Norwegian North Sea Wintershall provide free cash flow from 2017 with peak net production to Cairn of 12,500 boepd.
Operator, Cairn 20% WI, operations to production to Cairn of 22,500 boepd.
commence in Q2 UK & Norway Exploration More recently, Cairn entered the emerging Barents In 2014, Cairn continued to build the exploration Sea and is in the process of applying for operatorship portfolio in order to leverage our subsurface in Norway, leveraging Cairns Arctic operational knowledge and operational synergies and applied experience and Norwegian presence.
for and was awarded interests in both the UK and Norwegian licensing rounds.
In Q1 2014, we were Catcher awarded interests in all three licences applied for in The Catcher field Premier Operator 50%, Cairn the Norwegian Awards in Predefined Areas APA 20%, MOL 20%, Dyas 10% was discovered in 2010 2013 Licensing Round and are currently reviewing in block 28 9a of the UK Central North Sea.
Follow this acreage, with a view to making drilling decisions in up wells in the block then discovered the Varadero, future years.
Cairn was also awarded non-operated Burgman, Carnaby and Bonneville fields.
These interests in five licences in the 2014 APA Licensing discoveries together with four adjacent licences Round.
These licences do not carry firm well make up what is known as the Greater Catcher area.
commitments and are in locations adjacent to current areas of interest in Norway.
In the UK 28th Licensing In 2014, a Field Development Plan FDP for the Round, Cairn was awarded four licences in Q4 2014. development of the Catcher, Varadero and Burgman fields was approved by DECC and 2P reserves were booked.
The development will comprise a Floating Production Storage and Offloading FPSO facility which is currently under construction in Singapore and will be capable of processing 60,000 bopd.
The development will be located 170km south east of Aberdeen in water depths of 90m.
Development drilling will start in 2015 with more than 20 wells expected to be drilled over a period of more than four years.
First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net peak production to Cairn of 10,000 boepd.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Cairns operations in Rajasthan, North West India.
28 28 C Ca ai ir rn E n En ne er rg gy P y PL LC A C An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Cairn in India Working alongside the Government of India and Joint Venture partners, Cairn has been a long-term investor in India for 20 years and its major oil discovery in Rajasthan created the potential to provide more than 30% of Indias daily crude production.
Cairns successful exploration and development In 2006, Cairn created Cairn India Limited CIL activities have led to long-term job creation in and 100% owned subsidiaries incorporated outside India and the establishment of a legacy asset India were transferred to CIL also a 100% owned for the country.
This reorganisation was submitted to the authorities in India and approved.
In 2007, In 2004 Rajasthan represented the largest onshore CIL was listed on the Bombay and National Stock oil find in India in more than 30 years.
Cairn also Exchanges of India with an independent Board subsequently discovered and developed interests and management team.
in Ravva in East India and Cambay Basin in West India.
During its involvement in India, Cairn invested Throughout its long history in India, Cairn has been approximately US$5 billion in developing the countrys fully compliant and paid all applicable taxes under the oil and gas resources, making over 40 significant oil legislation in force at the time, including subsequent and gas discoveries, building 12 offshore platforms, sales of shares by the Company in CIL.
developing four major processing platforms, laying more than 1,000km of pipeline giving access to In January 2014, Cairn received notice from 75% of Indias refining capacity and drilling more the Income Tax Department of India citing than 500 wells.
2012 Retrospective Legislation and requesting information relating to the group reorganisation in Cairns investments in India go beyond our 2006.
The Income Tax Department provisionally exploration and development projects: we have attached the companys remaining 10% shareholding created jobs and worked with local suppliers, in CIL, then valued at approximately US$1 billion.
added to Rajasthans GDP growth and invested in communities for local benefit around our operations.
Throughout 2014, Cairn has had a strong focus on For example, the Company, with support from the resolving the tax issue and has taken measures to Government of Rajasthan, set up a partnership protect shareholders interests.
with the International Finance Corporation IFC, the investment arm of the World Bank, to design, fund and implement sustainable socio-economic development programmes in Rajasthan.
Key initiatives established included the Enterprise Centre which has now trained more than 6,000 people in areas including construction, handicrafts and English: the Rural Dairy Development Programme which encourages farmers to pool and sell surplus milk: and Health Awareness Initiatives which, through Cairns Mobile Health Vans, have provided more than 100,000 people with health services.
C Ca ai ir rn E n En ne er rg gy P y PL LC A C An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 29 29 2014 key story
