Attractive market dynamics UK self storage penetration in key urban conurbations remains relatively low.
Very limited new supply coming onto the market.
Sector growth is positive, with increasing domestic demand.
Our competitive advantage Industrys most recognised brand.
Prominent stores on arterial or main roads, with extensive frontage and high visibility.
Largest share of web traffic from mobile and desktop platforms.
Excellent customer service, customer feedback programme with store level customer satisfaction surveys.
Largest UK self storage footprint by Maximum Lettable Area MLA capacity.
Primarily freehold estate concentrated in London and South East and other large metropolitan cities.
Larger average store capacity economies of scale, higher operating margins.
Secure financing structure with strong balance sheet.
Evergreen income streams 42,000 customers 36,000 in wholly owned stores.
Average length of stay for existing customers of 23 months.
34% of customers in established stores three year length of stay.
Low bad debt expense 0.10% of revenue in the year.
Strong growth opportunities Driving REVPAF with a focus on occupancy growth.
Yield management as occupancy increases.
Growth in national accounts and business customer base.
Site development out of free cash flow.
Conversion into Freehold assets for high operating margins and operational advantage quality earnings.
Low technology & obsolescence product, maintenance capex fully expensed.
Annual compound eps growth of 16% over the last ten years.
Annual compound cash flow growth of 15% over the last ten years 15 Strategic Report continued Our Strategy and Business Model continued The self storage market Adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and In the recently published 2014 Self Storage Association UK Survey, distributions to shareholders are our other KPIs.
We have delivered only 38% of those surveyed had a reasonable or good awareness of compound eps growth of 12% over the past five years, and compound self storage, in line with findings from our own research.
Furthermore, dividend growth of 42% over the same period.
Compound eps growth 2% of the 2,138 adults surveyed were currently using self storage over the past ten years is 16%.
and 5% were thinking of using self storage in the next year.
This We have illustrated the Groups performance in these measures over indicates a continued opportunity for growth and with increasing the past five years on page 11. use, together with the ongoing marketing efforts of everyone in the industry, we anticipate awareness to grow.
Capital structure During the year the Company carried out a study of debt leverage Growth in new facilities across the industry has been limited to and its impact on the long term share performance of businesses, regional areas of the UK, particularly in the north, whereas in London, with the help of an external consultant.
The study covered 40 quoted there were no new openings last year and indeed capacity is companies in the REIT space together with other consumer facing expected to fall in the next twelve months with the closures of stores businesses for the period from 2000 to 2013. for redevelopment.
Between 2010 and 2013 average industry openings have been approximately nine per year, which compares The main objective was to see if the results supported our long held to an average of 34 per year in the preceding four years.
view that lower geared businesses outperform in the long term.
79% of respondents to the survey expected an improvement in Different business models with varying operating margins might, profits this year, compared to 35% last year, and 87% expect rents at the margin, have different optimum levels of debt.
However a for new customers to rise in 2014 compared to 79% last year.
consistent theme emerged that excessive levels of debt have been universally value destructive.
In a narrow window between 2003 The Self Storage Association SSA estimate that the UK industry and 2006 higher levels of debt would have delivered higher returns, is made up of approximately 975 self storage facilities of which but even during that period optimum levels of debt were lower 141 are purely container operations, providing 34.4 million sq ft of than might be expected, and would have required pinpoint accuracy self storage space, equating to 0.5 sq ft per person in the UK.
compares to 7.3 sq ft per person in the US, 1.4 sq ft per person in Australia and 0.1 sq ft for mainland Europe, where the roll-out of Transmission of this value destruction did result in significant self storage is a more recent phenomenon source: The Self Storage underperformance and marked increases in share price volatility.
339 self storage facilities in Optimum levels of gearing expressed as net debt to gross asset the UK are held by large operators defined as those managing value ranged from 10% in moments of extreme fear 2008 to 2009 10 facilities or more which represents 35% of the total number, to 43% in periods of exuberance 2003 to 2006.
Using 2009 to 2013 but we would estimate approximately 50% of total capacity.
as a base, which is more representative of the long term norm, albeit Awareness of self storage will continue to grow as more businesses on a conservative basis, the optimum level of debt was found to be 23%.
and individuals use the product at a time when the supply side is We have previously said that we believe that the Group would benefit restricted, with very few store openings expected in the calendar year.
from lower leverage and the Board has a long term target of Group income cover of over 5 times.
The relationship of this metric to KPIs capital leverage is not perfectly correlated but making long term The key performance indicators of our stores are occupancy and assumptions on values and interest is reasonably correlated.
We rental yield, which together drive the revenue of the business.
These believe that the optimum level of debt for Big Yellow is 20% to 30% are three key measures which are focussed on by the Board, and are with a target of mid 20s from the current level of 28%.
Given the reported on a weekly basis.
Over the course of the past five years, subjective nature of valuation we prefer to express this target as net both occupancy and revenue have grown significantly.
Rental yield operating income over debt costs.
was relatively stable between 2010 and 2012, reduced following the introduction of VAT in 2013, but has increased this year by 6.1% to closer to the 2012 level.
Our key focus is on continuing to grow occupancy, with rental yield growth following once the stores have reached higher occupancy levels.
89% 14.8% 16% of revenue from London per annum TSR compound EPS growth and the South East since floatation over the last ten years 16 Operational and Marketing Review For unprompted brand awareness, our recall in London is 56%, five times that of our nearest competitor and for the rest of the UK it is 21%, ten times that of our nearest competitor.
Overview The store bonus structure rewards occupancy growth, sales growth We now have a portfolio of 70 Big Yellow stores and sites of which and cost control through setting quarterly targets based on 67 are currently open.
In addition, we operate from 10 Armadillo occupancy and store profitability, including the contribution from Self Storage centres which are located in northern cities.
We have ancillary sales of insurance and packing materials.
Information on committed to start construction at Enfield, which will open in April bonus build up is circulated monthly and stores are consulted in 2015.
Our site at Guildford Central has planning consent, and preparing their own targets and budgets each quarter, leading to planning negotiations are ongoing at our site in central Manchester.
improved visibility, a better understanding of sales lines and control of operating costs.
We believe the continuing difficulties in the banking and capital We believe that as a consumer-facing branded business it is markets make access to capital required to fund growth more paramount to maintain the quality of our estate and customer difficult and will slow down the growth in self storage store openings offering.
We therefore continue to invest in preventative in the market generally.
Additionally, in our core markets in London maintenance, store cleaning and the repair and replacement of and the South East, very high land values will render the opportunity essential equipment, such as lifts and gates.
The ongoing annual for creating new self storage centres difficult.
We believe that we are expenditure is approximately 30,000 per store, which is included in a relatively strong position with our freehold property assets and within cost of sales.
This excludes our rolling programme of store with the proven ability to access funding when the opportunity makeovers, which typically take place every four years, at a cost presents itself.
of approximately 15,000 to 20,000 per store.
Operations The Big Yellow store model is well established.
The typical store has Demand 60,000 sq ft of net lettable storage area and takes some three to five Of the customers moving into our stores in the last year, surveys years to achieve 70% to 80% plus occupancy in the current economic undertaken indicate approximately 50% are linked to the housing environment.
Some stores have taken longer than this given they market, either customers renting storage space whilst using the opened just before or during the downturn.
The average room size rental sector or those moving within the owner occupied sector.
occupied in the portfolio is currently 68 sq ft in line with the prior year.
During the year 11% of our customers who moved in took storage space as a spare room for decluttering and approximately 29% of The store is open seven days a week and is initially run by three staff, our customers used the product because some event has occurred with a part time member of staff added once the store occupancy in their lives generating the need for storage: they may be moving justifies the need for the extra administrative and sales workload.
abroad for a job, have inherited possessions, are getting married The drive to improve store operating standards and consistency or divorced, are students who need storage during the holidays, or across the portfolio remains a key focus for the Group.
Excellent homeowners developing into their lofts or basements.
The balance of customer service is at the heart of our business objectives, as a 10% of our customer demand during the year came from businesses.
satisfied customer is our best marketing tool.
We measure customer Our business customers range across a number of industry types, service standards through a programme of mystery shoppers and such as retailers, professional service companies, hospitality online customer reviews, which give an average customer service companies and importers exporters.
These businesses store stock, score of 4.8 out of 5.
At the start of the year we launched a new documents, equipment, or promotional materials all requiring a customer-experience programme which combines the feedback from convenient flexible solution to their storage, either to get started mystery shopping and customer reviews into the reinforcement of or to free up more expensive space.
customer focus in our store operations.
We have a team of Area Managers in place who have on average worked for Big Yellow for ten years.
They develop and support the stores to drive the growth of the business.
