30 30 Strategic Report Operational Review SLOUGH TRADING ESTATE CONTINUED...
The Slough Trading Estate originated as a site where Disciplined Capital Allocation decommissioned military vehicles from the First World Estate regeneration: 1.2 billion, or 26 percent, War were stored, repaired and then sold.
This work ofour capital base is invested in the Estate.
happened in workshops and factories.
In 1920, Sir Noel Between 2008 and 2013, we reduced the floorspace Mobbs led a consortium of investors which bought the on the Estate by 10 per cent, demolishing obsolete land and let out the buildings as factories for occupiers buildings effectively creating a land bank entirely under including Johnson & Johnson, Citroen, Gillette and Mars, our control on which we can build modern warehousing which are still household names today.
suitable for current occupier requirements.
In 2014, we completed 22,200sq m of new buildings and we As the nature of British manufacturing changed, the have a further 32,400 sq m in the current development Estates occupiers changed too, from heavy manufacturing pipeline.
In combination, these will increase the Estates to lighter industrial uses in the 1950s, towards electronics, floorspace by just under 10 per cent.
IT and pharmaceutical industries in the 1980s.
Today, the Estate is dominated by modern buildings, housing a wide Maximising returns: Although the Estate remains range of occupiers, from manufacturers to data centres, most suited to industrial and warehouse buildings, which depend on the Estates reliable power supply, as well weare able to generate a greater return from the as its proximity to the City of London to ensure the fastest asset by building higher value uses, including offices, possible data transfer.
car showrooms and trade counter units in prominent locations.
These tend to attract higher rents due to their The Trading Estate is a major employment hub in the prime location along major transport routes: higher Thames Valley, housing around 350 businesses in value uses account for 23 per cent of floorspace but 592,000 sq m of warehouse and office space, employing 31per cent of rent.
It is also in an enviable location: Slough is 17 minutes by train from Central London, 10 miles from Reducing obsolescence risk: We build warehouses Heathrow Airport and close to junctions on the M4, M40 capable of multiple uses by a wide variety of occupier and M25 motorways.
Consequently, if they are vacated for any reason, they are easy to adapt quickly for a new The evolution of the Estate, and the changes we have customer.
For example, we have over 20 data centres planned, demonstrate the three elements of our strategy in on the Trading Estate.
These, like the higher value action, as well as the wider principles we apply to running use buildings, attract premium rents, reflecting the SEGRO as a whole.
locational advantages of the Estate.
However, we build data centres to the same specification as our other warehouses to ensure that they could be let to other customers without major modification if a data centre operator leaves the premises.
The Slough Trading Estate has been evolving for over 90 years.
Our job is to make sure it continues to do so for the next 90.
ANDY GULLIFORD Chief Operating Officer SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com O OVE VER RVI VIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TEG EGIIC C R RE EP PO ORT RT G GO OVE VER RNANC finance E FI FINANC NANCIIAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME ENT NTS S 31 Operational Excellence Customer engagement: Our full ownership of the Trading Estate means that we can work with our customers to ensure that they are happy in their buildings and that, when they are looking to expand, we can provide suitable premises elsewhere on the Estate.
UK Mail has been a customer on the Estate for over 20years.
In order to facilitate its expansion plans, it needed larger space.
In 2013, we were able to offer them an existing building with double the space, retaining them on the Estate.
Improving operational performance: The diversity of the tenant base means that the performance of the Trading Estate is not reliant on any one customer type or industry.
This diversity helped to maintain the Estates vacancy rate within our 68 per cent target range throughout the recent economic downturn.
Indeed, our letting activity in 2014 has improved the Estates FedEx, Slough Trading Estate vacancy rate to 5.2 per cent, and the average lease length on the Estate to around eight years to expiry from around six years in 2008.
Simplified planning: The Slough Trading Estate benefits from being a Simplified Planning Zone which was agreed in partnership with Slough Borough Council in 1995 for 10 years and was renewed in 2004.
In 2014, we have secured agreement to renew it for another 10 year period.
The terms of the Zone allow us to demolish or develop industrial use buildings on the Estate, subject to specific parameters, without the need to apply for planning permission each time.
It allows us to respond more rapidly to our customers needs and to wider occupier demand, as well as improving our capital efficiency.
It is a competitive advantage for both the Trading Estate and Slough as a whole when attracting new customers and therefore employment to the area.
For example, when one of our long term tenants, Selig, relocated from its ageing premises to a new building on the Estate double the size in November 2012, we had demolished the old premises by April 2013.
We signed Simplified Planning Zone renewal signing a pre-let with FedEx in July 2013, began construction immediately and FedEx took occupation of the building in May 2014, just 10 months later.
32 32 Strategic Report Operational Review SLOUGH TRADING ESTATE CONTINUED... Corporate and Social Responsibility Corporate Governance The Slough Trading Estate is an important part of Slough In March 2014, the local management team hosted the and we take our responsibilities to the wider community Board at the Slough Trading Estate, conducting a tour and and environment very seriously.
presenting on the performance and medium term plans for the Estate.
It allowed the Board to engage with the local One of our proudest achievements is helping to create asset teams and to experience at first hand the execution Slough Aspire, a public-private sector social enterprise of the Companys strategy.
dedicated to developing the skills of local people to meet the needs of Slough businesses, including those Investor Relations on the Estate.
Our buildings, employees and customers are at the We are working with Slough Borough Council and First heart of our business and we were able to showcase all Group on a Sustainable Transport Initiative including of them to our major shareholders and market analysts bicycle hire, discounted rail fares and car sharing for our at our operations headquarters on the Slough Trading customers and other users on the Estate.
The Executive Committee hosted the event and the local management team presented the For our customers on the Estate, we have introduced history, performance and future plans for the Estate to the a high-speed Wifi service.
The UK is a world leader audience.
Two representatives of customers on the Estate in its provision of Wifi to residential areas, but Infinity, the data centre operator, and UK Mail, the mail Government support has not been extended to and parcel delivery company also presented on why they businesses.
We believe that Wifi is of critical importance chose to locate on the Estate, while Cushman & Wakefield, to businesses and are ensuring that this advantage is the agents for the Estate, gave an overview of the local provided across the Estate.
The presentations can Business Watch is our state-of-the-art security system be found on our website at www.
It is operated in partnership with Thames After the presentations, the participants were given a tour Valley Police in an office at the heart of the Estate, from of the Estate, including visits to Infinitys data centre and which a network of CCTV cameras across the Estate are UK Mails parcel delivery warehouse, finishing at Slough monitored on a 24 hour basis.
It has cut crime levels by Aspire to hear from its manager how the organisation is 96 per cent since 2001, providing our customers and helping to improve the employability of local people.
their employees with significant peace of mind.
The event provided an opportunity not only for our investors and analysts to ask questions of the management team, but for our team at Slough to understand the priorities of these important stakeholders in our business.
Investor & Analyst Event, May 2014 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 Strategic Report Operational Review ORGANISED AROUND OUR CUSTOMERS IN CORE MARKETS We manage our day-to-day operations through five geographic Business Units two in the UK Greater London, and Thames Valley and National Logistics, Northern Europe principally Germany, Southern Europe principally France and Central Europe principally Poland.
Each Business Unit is tasked with optimising performance from our assets Operational Excellence through its teams expertise in customer service, asset management and development, and reports to the Chief Operating Officer.
Each Business Unit is supported by a local investment team, reporting to the Chief Investment Officer, which is responsible for ensuring that we allocate our capital to the markets and assets likely to deliver the best possible risk-adjusted returns Disciplined Capital Allocation.
GREATER LONDON Heathrow, Park Royal Royal Mail, Heathrow Operational Excellence: Our Greater London portfolio performed strongly during 2014.
The vacancy rate improved to 7.8 per cent 1.3M 1,752M 18.4% from 8.7 per cent a year ago, reflecting particular success in letting LETTABLE AREA, SQ M COMPLETED ASSETS VALUATION up vacant space in estates which are older but are still well located for 100% SEGRO SHARE MOVEMENT the national motorway network and rapid distribution into London.
The strong demand for well located, modern space also spurred our development programme.
We delivered 38,600 sq m of new space 6.1% 7.8% 87M during the year, including 14,650 sq m of speculative development EQUIVALENT YIELD VACANCY BY ERV GROSS PASSING RENT at Origin, Park Royal, which is 76 per cent let.
At the end of the year, SEGRO SHARE the Greater London pipeline included 26,600 sq m of committed development to be delivered in 2015 and 2016.
In addition to this, we have pre-let a 10,000 sq m unit to John Lewis Partnership at Origin The Greater London Business Unit manages our wholly-owned and and a 13,900 sq m unit to DHL near to Heathrow Airport which will be joint venture holdings around Heathrow Airport and in Park Royal.
added to the pipeline in the first quarter of 2015.
Market trends: Londons economy continues to outperform the Disciplined Capital Allocation: We took advantage of the depth of UK as a whole with an estimated growth rate of 4.8 per cent in 1 investor demand for London industrial estates and sold 157 million 2014 compared to 2.6 per cent GDP growth for the UK as a whole.
of assets during the year.
In one instance, we agreed to exchange a Londons economy is expected to continue to outperform the UK Greater London multi-let industrial estate for a single big box logistics in 2015.
At the same time, the e-commerce revolution in retailing warehouse in the heart of the UKs logistics golden triangle in the is driving demand for urban distribution space to service Londons Midlands.
This allowed us to improve the quality of our portfolio large, relatively affluent and growing population.
Occupier demand is whilst minimising the impact on income returns.
We sold six estates increasing at the same time as the amount of industrial and distribution for 113.8 million in a single portfolio transaction in December at a floorspace is falling, as industrial land is re-zoned for residential and premium in excess of 10 per cent compared to the previous valuation retail uses to cater for a population expected to be over 10 million by 1 at 30 June 2014.
In early January 2015, we purchased a 12 hectare plot 2030.
This is reflected in London industrial property market rental of land close to Heathrow Airport in West London, a prime position growth of 4.0 per cent during 2014, as well as an improvement in for distribution both nationally and into central London, in order to investment yields which fell to 6.0per cent from 6.8 per cent at 2 replenish our land bank for future development.
1 Source: Greater London Assembly 2 Source: IPD UK Quarterly Index 34 Strategic Report Operational Review ORGANISED AROUND OUR CUSTOMERS IN CORE MARKETS CONTINUED THAMES VALLEY AND NATIONAL LOGISTICS Slough Trading Estate, Thames Valley and big box logistics outside London Fiat Unetversity, Slough Trading Estate South East to 6.7 per cent from 7.8 per cent at December 2013 and 1 to6.8percent from 8.4 per cent in the East Midlands.
1.0M 1,601M 15.6% LETTABLE AREA, SQ M COMPLETED ASSETS VALUATION Operational Excellence: The Business Units vacancy rate 100% SEGRO SHARE MOVEMENT improved to 4.0 per cent from 8.1 per cent at December 2013, reflecting improved occupier markets.
On the Slough Trading Estate discussed in more detail on pages 29 to 32, there was a net take-up 6.5% 4.0% 93M of7,300 sq m of space, and we secured a tenant for our 49,100sqm distribution warehouse in Corby.
Our development programme was EQUIVALENT YIELD VACANCY BY ERV GROSS PASSING RENT SEGRO SHARE particularly active, and we completed 47,700 sq m of new space inthe portfolio, 93 per cent of which was let by the end of the year.
Development completions included a 22,000 sq m big box distribution The Thames Valley and National Logistics Business Unit warehouse pre-let to a major international fashion retailer.
There are incorporatesour assets in South East England outside London, 59,000 sq m of new development projects in the pipeline, including including the Slough Trading Estate, and 345 million of big the speculative development of a 22,000 sq m big box warehouse in boxlogistics warehouses.
Rugby and a 10,900 sq m warehouse pre-let to a food distributor on the Market trends: The Thames Valley, and Slough in particular, is a Slough Trading Estate.
The development pipeline is 35 per cent pre-let.
major employment area in the UK for the IT and corporate sectors, Disciplined Capital Allocation: We had an active year, investing benefiting from a well-qualified workforce and the proximity to around 260 million in big box logistics assets in the logistics golden Heathrow Airport and Central London.
Our National Logistics portfolio triangle.
Central to this activity was the acquisition of our joint venture is concentrated in the logistics golden triangle, roughly between partners stake in the Logistics Property Partnership to take full control Birmingham, Northampton and Leicester, where the major M1 and of the portfolio, paying 175 million for the 50 per cent share of the M6 motorways meet which means that most of the UK population assets.
We took advantage of healthy investment demand to dispose is accessible within around four hours and London, Birmingham and of properties within the portfolio which did not meet our longer-term Manchester within around two hours.
The growing UK economy return criteria, generating proceeds of 153 million.
In January 2015, 2.6per cent in 2014, compared to 0.9 per cent for the eurozone, we exchanged contracts to buy a five hectare plot of land adjacent aswell as retailers need for fast and easy access to major conurbations, to the Slough Trading Estate, allowing us to expand the reach of our is driving occupier demand for warehouse space in the Thames largest single asset through future development.
Valley, South East and the Midlands and this has been reflected 1 Source: IPD UK Quarterly Index in rising rental values.
Strong investment demand particularly for big box warehouses has improved industrial property yields in the SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35 NORTHERN EUROPE Germany, Belgium, The Netherlands JAPO Motorsport, SEGRO Business Park, Essen Operational Excellence: The vacancy rate in our Northern Europe Business Unit has fallen to 10.2 per cent from 11.2 per cent 1.2M 384M 0.9 % in December 2013.
We let 117,000 sq m of existing space during LETTABLE AREA, SQ M COMPLETED ASSETS VALUATION the year, rising to 211,500 sq m when development completions 100% SEGRO SHARE MOVEMENT are included.
Our development team had an extremely busy year in Germany.
We completed the development of 112,000 sq m of new space, of which 62 per cent was let by the end of 2014, including 7.2% 10.2% 28M pre-lets to ASICS in Krefeld, Dsseldorf the first of two phases EQUIVALENT YIELD VACANCY BY ERV GROSS PASSING RENT and Takko in Hamburg, totalling 60,200 sq m, and an 8,200 sq m GERMANY SEGRO SHARE parcel delivery centre to Deutsche Post DHL at our new City Park development.
We also secured 26,300 sq m of lettings in speculatively The Northern European Business Unit manages our wholly-owned and developed space, the largest of which were to logistics companies Van SELP joint venture assets inGermany, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Eupen Logistik in Frankfurt and UPS in Krefeld.
Germany continues to dominate the development pipeline, accounting for around a quarter Market trends: Economic growth in Germany, the location of the of the Groups pipeline by space, including the second phase of the majority of our Northern Europe assets, was 1.5 per cent in 2014, ASICS warehouse 35,500 sq m and speculative development of City well above the 0.9 per cent growth rate of the eurozone according Park and Rhine Park multi-let industrial estates, all in Dsseldorf.
The OECD expects growth in Germany to slow slightly in 2015, but to accelerate in 2016.
Our wholly-owned, multi-let industrial Disciplined Capital Allocation: We made significant progress in assets are concentrated in Dsseldorf, the historic manufacturing disposing of our non-core assets in Northern Europe during the year.
centre of Germany: the big box logistics warehouse portfolio, held We sold Pegasus Park, a business park outside Brussels, in September within the SELP joint venture, is concentrated in the major logistics and a 32 million portfolio of regional multi-let industrial estates across hubs across the country, focused on Dsseldorf, Frankfurt, Berlin, Germany in November.
In total, we disposed of 133 million SEGRO Hamburg and Leipzig.
CBRE reports that market rental values have share of assets, recycling the proceeds into big box distribution remained stable over the past year but, in common with elsewhere in warehouse and land acquisitions.
This recycling activity will allow Continental Europe, investment markets have been strong and prime the operations team to focus on our core markets and products in a yields for industrial warehouses have improved to 6.0 per cent, from more efficient manner.
The land acquisitions, including a prime plot 6.25percent a year ago.
next to our completed development at Rhine Park, will allow us to replenish our development pipeline in markets showing improving occupier demand.
36 Strategic Report Operational Review ORGANISED AROUND OUR CUSTOMERS IN CORE MARKETS CONTINUED SOUTHERN EUROPE France, Italy FedEx, La Courneuve Operational Excellence: The vacancy rate in Southern Europe has fallen to 5.2 per cent, from 7.6 per cent a year ago, reflecting good 1.2M 458M 2.6% lettings progress, particularly in our older estates.
We were impacted LETTABLE AREA, SQ M COMPLETED ASSETS VALUATION by the failure of Mory Ducros at the end of 2013 which resulted in 100% SEGRO SHARE MOVEMENT four buildings in our non-core portfolio being returned to us.
We have since sold two of the buildings and let the others.
We completed a small development in Paris, pre-let to Zodiac, during the year and have 7.9% 5.2% 35M approved construction of two further projects totalling 14,600 sq m EQUIVALENT YIELD VACANCY BY ERV GROSS PASSING RENT for completion in 2015 and 2016: a 7,900 sq m speculative multi-let FRANCE SEGRO SHARE industrial estate close to Charles fide Gaulle Airport and a 6,645 sq m pre-let logistics unit close to Orly Airport.
The Southern Europe Business Unit manages our wholly-owned and Disciplined Capital Allocation: We invested 50 million SEGRO SELP joint venture assets in France and Italy.
share in new acquisitions, exclusively through the SELP joint venture, Market trends: Economic growth in France in 2014 was 0.2 per cent, entering the Marseille market by acquiring three big box warehouses.
well below the 0.9 per cent growth rate of the eurozone according to We sold 10 million of wholly-owned, non-core assets in Paris and Lille.
The OECD expects growth to improve in 2015, but remain The Business Unit also manages the last of the original six large, nonbelow the long-term trend.
Our portfolio is concentrated around Paris, strategic assets: Energy Park, on the outskirts of Milan.
We completed where we have a strong, wholly-owned presence in light industrial the development of a new office campus for Alcatel-Lucent in 2014 estates around Charles fide Gaulle Airport.
We also own big box and it has now taken occupation of the space.
Energy Park is now logistics warehouses on the outskirts of Paris, Marseille and Lyon, the almost fully let and it remains our intention to take advantage of dominant logistics markets in France, within our SELP joint venture.
improving investment demand and dispose of this asset in due course.
Occupier demand for urban logistics space in Paris is healthy, reflected in our low vacancy rate and early signs of rental growth, while rents for big box logistics warehouses have stabilised.
Investment demand remains strong for the core industrial and logistics locations and the best assets, and prime yields have improved to 6.75 per cent, from around 7.0 per cent a year ago.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 CENTRAL EUROPE Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary Komfort, Strykow Operational Excellence: We secured 60,500 sq m of lettings in Central Europe during 2014, around twice the level of space returned 1.1M 293M 5.9% to us.
We also completed around 32,800 sq m of new space, further LETTABLE AREA, SQ M COMPLETED ASSETS VALUATION improving the overall quality of our portfolio, of which 80 per cent was 100% SEGRO SHARE MOVEMENT let at the end of 2014.
We continue to develop new, pre-let buildings and have 77,100 sq m in the pipeline.
We expect to complete two buildings, totalling 59,300 sq m, in the first quarter of 2015, let to 7.9% 6.0% 21M Zabka the convenience store food retailer in Gdansk and Volkswagen EQUIVALENT YIELD VACANCY BY ERV GROSS PASSING RENT in Poznan.
We have agreed to build a 8,700 sq m parcel delivery POLAND SEGRO SHARE centre in Poznan for DPD, who are a customer in a number of our geographies.
The Central Europe Business Unit manages our wholly-owned and Disciplined Capital Allocation: We did not dispose of any properties SELP joint venture assets in Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary.
in Central Europe during the year, but added around 49 million Market trends: Polands position on the Continent makes it an SEGRO share of properties and land to our holdings in Poland and important country in Europe for international logistics and our portfolio the Czech Republic.
is weighted towards the major transport hubs of Warsaw, Poznan, Lodz and Silesia.
The Polish economy continued to grow strongly in 2014: Eurostat reports 3.1 per cent GDP growth, and the OECD expects 3.0 per cent in 2015.
Although economic growth is an important driver of occupier demand, the availability of land and the speed with which logistics buildings can be constructed means that supply can respond quickly to changes in demand.
As a result, although the level of speculative new supply is low, there is little prospect of meaningful near-term increases in rental values in big box logistics and this is borne out by CBRE which reports stable prime rents in 2014.
To compensate for this, prime yields in Poland are relatively high at around 7.0percent, an improvement from 7.4 per cent a year ago, reflecting investor demand for high-yielding, quality assets.
