OPERATIONAL REVIEW Adam Couch - Chief Executive I am pleased to report that the business delivered a robust trading performance during the financial year with total revenues ahead by 14 per cent.
Underlying revenues, which exclude the contribution from acquisitions, increased by 12 per cent, reflecting strong growth across most of the Groups categories, driven by new product launches and a broadening customer base.
This performance was underpinned by market growth in the Groups core categories and by strong export volumes.
Adjusted Group operating profit increased by 6 per cent, reflecting strong revenue growth which was partly offset by the impact of higher input costs, particularly in the first half of the year.
The pig rearing and breeding operations, which were acquired during the year, also made a positive contribution to the Groups performance.
Rising input costs Infrastructure investment Pig prices increased during the first half of the financial year to reach The Group invested 28 million in its infrastructure during the year, a new record high in July 2013 and remained at this level through to bringing total capital expenditure to more than 130 million over the end of the third quarter.
This was caused by high feed prices and the last five years.
This investment is reflected in the quality of the demand for high quality British pork.
Cranswick managed this input Groups production facilities which are some of the most efficient and cost inflation through constructive discussion with its customers, well invested in the sectors in which Cranswick operates.
Significant by delivering ongoing operating efficiency improvements and by completed and ongoing projects are highlighted in the individual producing pigs internally.
Pig prices eased in the fourth quarter of the category sections below.
year: however the extent of and time lag in recovering these higher input costs, together with higher than anticipated start-up costs at the Groups new gourmet pastry facility in Malton, North Yorkshire, meant that adjusted operating margin at 5.4 per cent was slightly lower than Category review the 5.7 per cent reported last year.
Fresh pork 15 per cent Despite these price increases the UK consumer continues to Fresh pork sales grew by 15 per cent compared to appreciate the attractiveness, versatility and low relative pricing of pork the same period last year as the Group saw the full compared to other meat proteins, particularly beef and lamb.
Demand year benefit of contract wins in the fourth quarter for premium products continued unabated, with premium sausage and of the last financial year.
Sales were also boosted by bacon sales growing well ahead of their overall respective categories.
strong export volumes which increased by 10 per cent compared to the previous year.
In the lead up to Christmas 1,000 tonnes of product were being shipped to the Far East each week.
The Group is making Acquisition of pig herd a substantial investment in the Norfolk facility to upgrade the abattoir During the year the Group invested heavily in its pig breeding and and introduce a new rapid chiller which will increase capacity and rearing activities, acquiring East Anglian Pigs now renamed Wayland improve yields in this area of the plant.
Farms on 29 April 2013 and then further breeding units in September and December 2013 which operate under the Wold Farms banner.
During the year Cranswick withdrew its support from the price Cranswick now has a herd of premium outdoor pigs for use in its reporting mechanism that calculates the Deadweight Average Pig Price premium range products which can satisfy 15 to 20 per cent of the DAPP.
This was based on historic discussions with the British Pig Groups overall British pig requirements.
This move supported the Executive BPEX about the clarity and transparency of the calculation.
decision by one of the Groups key retail customers, in August 2013, Cranswick will continue to work with BPEX to examine alternative ways to move to an all British fresh pork offering.
A combination of falling in which pricing of pigs may be reported.
feed prices and strong demand for higher welfare British pork helped enable Wayland Farms to make a positive contribution to the Group In January, the Russian authorities banned the import of European post-acquisition.
The Group will continue to invest in its pig operations pig meat in response to the outbreak of African swine fever in Eastern to further improve productivity and efficiencies.
The UK market is Poland and Lithuania.
Although the UK does not export to Russia, the currently only 50 per cent self-sufficient in pig meat, but ongoing decision has had an impact on both volumes and prices for the UKs investment in the sector should help to make inroads into this shortfall trading partners within the eurozone.
16 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Earlier in the year Porcine Endemic Diarrhoea virus PEDv was Pastry 138 per cent discovered in the US herd.
This disease has a significant impact on Pastry sales grew strongly, albeit from a low base, to mortality of the young pig population.
The UK herd has not been more than double those of the previous year following affected to date but the industry remains vigilant and biosecurity the move into the new Malton facility.
Start-up costs continues to be of paramount importance.
were higher than anticipated as the business focused on the successful launch of several new product ranges for the Groups Sausage 2 per cent lead retail customer in this category.
With costs now running at Sausage sales increased by 2 per cent reflecting anticipated levels, the focus is now firmly on delivering the anticipated continued demand for the Groups premium sausage returns from the 12 million investment.
The new product pipeline saw ranges.
July saw a record sales week for the Lazenbys the launch of a range of hand lined quiches for the summer season facility for a non-Christmas period.
The premium followed by a premium savoury pie range in the autumn.
A further 19 sausage category continues its impressive resilience of recent years as new products will be launched in the current financial year, with new consumers recognise the quality proposition that high end products customers, both retail and food-service, being targeted.
However, sausage sales to the lead customer at the Norfolk site were lower year on year and as a result the decision was taken Continental 3 per cent to consolidate sausage production at the Groups principal sausage Sales of Continental products were up 3 per cent on facility in Hull.
With much of the equipment also transferred, the costs the previous year.
This performance was particularly associated with this reorganisation were kept to a minimum.
Sales of pleasing given that sales were 16 per cent lower in the premium beef burgers, which are produced using the same artisan first quarter following the loss of business with one of skills developed for Cranswicks gourmet sausages, also performed the Groups retail customers which continued its strategy of moving to well during the strong summer barbecue season, with sales ahead in-house sourcing.
Several new product launches and the addition of by 24 per cent compared to the prior year.
A third burger production new retail contracts helped this category return to growth.
A renewed line has now been commissioned to meet increased demand in the focus on sourcing new artisan products from Continental Europe and forthcoming summer season.
further development of the customer profile will drive ongoing growth in this category.
Bacon 14 per cent Bacon sales were 14 per cent higher than the previous Sandwiches 5 per cent period.
Sales of premium bacon continue to grow Sandwich sales were 5 per cent lower following a strongly as the UK consumer trades up from the decision to rationalise the core product range and standard tier category.
The introduction of speciality develop a more focused customer strategy.
These cures and smoked products supported this growth along with ongoing initiatives have been driven by a new management development of ready to cook ranges which are now also being team which has brought a new focus to improving operating produced across the fresh pork and sausage categories.
Seasonal efficiencies and raw material sourcing.
This has seen the business gammon steaks and joints also performed extremely well over the perform strongly during the year.
The new management team has key Christmas trading period.
The unique artisan production methods targeted margin enhancing sustainable contracts.
It is pleasing to developed at the Sherburn site continue to support the wider Group report that despite losing one large contract during the year and a in offering unrivalled product quality.
This is demonstrated through second effective from the end of quarter one of the new financial year, collaboration with the Barnsley cooked meats facility in producing profitable long-term new contract wins will fully mitigate these losses.
premium air-dried cooked meat products and through the use of air The introduction of new product lines including the &Made brand dried streaky bacon in Christmas sausage products.
has had a significant beneficial impact.
There is a real opportunity to give food-service customers a wider offering using selected products Cooked meats 16 per cent from the Groups broad category base and in particular the new Cooked meats sales increased 16 per cent year on pastry ranges.
25 per cent of all breakfast menus include bacon.
Demand for premium air-dried hams helped business is therefore ideally placed to satisfy food-service customer drive this growth along with strong promotional requirements in this area.
Also, given the consolidation that has taken activity, particularly in the fourth quarter of the place in the UK sandwich category in the last two years, the business financial year.
Investment to extend the Milton Keynes facility is is confident that there will be opportunities to develop a stronger progressing to plan and budget.
This project which is due to be presence in the retail sector.
completed in the second quarter of the new financial year will substantially increase capacity, deliver significant efficiency gains and further improvements in product quality through the use of advanced cooking and slicing technology.
Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 17 OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Summary and outlook Cranswicks growth continues to be underpinned by the quality of its products which deliver real value to, and great food experiences for, the UK consumer.
The business operates from highly efficient and well invested facilities with empowered management teams working collaboratively and sustainably with the Groups customers and suppliers.
The Groups future growth strategy will focus on consolidating its position in UK markets, developing new channels both in pork and other proteins and continuing to grow its international presence.
The Group remains highly cash generative.
This allows it to make attractive returns to Shareholders, to continue to invest in its infrastructure to build capacity, drive further operational efficiencies and to pursue earnings-enhancing strategic acquisitions.
The successful development of Cranswick is testament to the skill, quality and determination of the teams across each of the Groups businesses and I would like to express my thanks for their dedication and support over the last twelve months.
With experienced management at all levels, a strong range of products, a well invested asset base and a robust financial position, the Group is well placed to continue its long-term growth strategy.
Adam Couch Chief Executive 19 May 2014 18 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 19
