Dignity plc 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Operating review Continued investment in in our premises and specialist vehicles 11.5m During the period Dignity invested 11.5 million to further improve the facilities and service we offer our clients.
The collection of 78 satellite locations opened Introduction The Groups operations are managed across in recent years contributed to the Groups three distinct divisions: funerals, crematoria profitability in the year in line with the Boards and pre-arranged funeral plans, which expectations.
These locations are selected to We continue to be close enough to existing business centres respectively represent 65 per cent, 28 per cent make substantial and seven per cent of the Groups underlying to use their specialist vehicles and mortuary investments in operating profit before central overheads.
In this way, the locations will provide the same outstanding levels of client our business service without the need for significant and facilities.
Andrew Davies Operations Director Progress and Developments Overview Investment in the core portfolio Funeral services relate to the provision of Significant cash resources continue to be used 66.3m funerals and ancillary items, such as to maintain the Groups locations and fleet.
In 2014, 11.5 million was invested in The funeral division maintenance capital expenditure.
contributed 66.3 million Performance of underlying operating As at 26 December 2014, the Group operated Funeral location portfolio profit in the period.
a network of 718 2013: 690 funeral locations The Group acquired 12 funeral businesses throughout the United Kingdom, generally representing 30 funeral locations during the trading under local established names.
In addition, four satellite locations were During the period, the Group conducted opened and six locations were closed, principally 65,600 funerals.
The Groups national where it was considered commercially coverage is achieved appropriate not to renew leases.
Approximately two per cent of all funerals were conducted in Northern Ireland.
Excluding Outlook Northern Ireland, these funerals represent Performance in 2014 The funeral division has performed strongly approximately 11.7 per cent 2013: 11.9 per in the year and is well placed for the future.
Strong operational efficiencies cent of total estimated deaths in Britain.
Whilst funerals divided by estimated deaths Approximately 23 per cent of the funerals is a reasonable measure of our market share, Substantial investment in performed in the year had previously been core portfolio.
the Group does not have a complete national pre-arranged.
This compares to approximately presence and consequently, this calculation Acquired locations integrated 12 per cent in 2004.
This proportion is can only ever be an estimate.
anticipated to continue to increase over time.
Whilst these funerals represent a substantially Underlying operating profit was 66.3 million Strategic progress lower average revenue per funeral, their 2013: 60.8 million, an increase of nine incremental nature means they are a positive Prioritise client service.
contributor to the Groups performance.
Continue to extend our This strong performance has been achieved national footprint.
despite the reduction in the number of deaths Continue to add value through compared to the previous period, partly as new acquisitions.
a result of the annual price rise being made earlier in the year than was previously the case.
Cost control has remained good.
Average income per funeral increased and remained robust.
Overview Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17 1 1.
Funeral Director, Dean Newton and Funeral Service Arranger, Jodie Heaton, at Arthur B Baxter in Bingley.
Funeral Service Arranger, Sandra Barnes, at J H Kenyon in Kensington.
J H Kenyon have been serving bereaved families in Kensington since 1880 and relocated to new premises in 2014.
2 Actions Focused on meeting and exceeding clients needs and expectations 3 At Dignity we are focused on client service because our clients do not use us by chance.
Almost three quarters of our clients have used our services before or choose us because of recommendation and reputation.
They return and recommend us because of the quality and consistency of service we provide.
We continue to prioritise service and care.
The results of our client survey for 2014 continue to be at exceptionally high levels with 99.2 per cent of respondents saying that we met or exceeded their expectations.
We continue to be a major Opportunities provider of funeral services % 11.7 in the UK.
The Groups market share is 11.7 per cent following acquisitions in the period.
Acquisitions By adding established, successful businesses to a strong core portfolio the funeral division is well placed for the future.
Dignity plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Operating review Growth of our crematoria portfolio continued 39 crematoria In 2014, the Group operated 39 crematoria compared to 22 at the beginning of 2008. considering its options.
During the period, Crematoria the Groups appeal on a further planning application was denied and as a result, the Overview Group has ceased to pursue this location.
We continue to invest Crematoria services relate to cremation in and develop our services and the sale of memorials and Whilst development of such locations is not existing crematoria burial plots at the Groups crematoria and expected to be successful in all cases, they cemeteries.
represent a potential opportunity to create and explore further new facilities in areas that will benefit the opportunities for Performance local community, whilst representing a The Group remains the largest single operator potential opportunity to invest shareholder growth.
of crematoria in Britain, operating 39 2013: money profitably.
Steve Gant 39 crematoria as at 26 December 2014.
The General Manager Crematoria Group performed 53,400 cremations 2013: Outlook 55,500 in the period, representing 9.7 per The Group continues to identify further 29.1m cent 2013: 9.9 per cent of total estimated locations suitable for new crematoria and is also continuing to seek partnerships with deaths in Britain.
The crematoria division local authorities.
Progress on this is expected generated 29.1 million of One of the Groups crematoria was flooded and to be slow, albeit this supports the relative underlying operating profit not operational for approximately three months robustness and value of the Groups from its 39 locations.
It has since reopened and the financial loss suffered has been recovered 3.4m through insurance.
These lost cremations Pre-arranged funeral plans represent approximately 0.1 per cent of total 3.4 million of capital estimated deaths in Britain during the period.
expenditure has been Overview invested in the portfolio Underlying operating profit was 29.1 million Pre-arranged funeral plans represent the sale during the period.
2013: 27.4 million, an increase of six of funerals in advance to customers wishing to per cent.
make their own funeral arrangements and the Performance in 2014 marketing and administration costs associated This operating performance is driven by with making such sales.
The Group continues Six per cent increase in increasing average revenues per cremation, to have a strong market presence in this area.
which has offset the reduction in the number These plans represent potential future Four planning applications of cremations performed in the year given incremental business for the funeral division, being progressed.
the lower number of deaths in the period.
as the Group expects to perform the majority of these funerals.
Strategic progress Sales of memorials and other items have been strong, equating to approximately 262 per Continued to identify further Performance cremation compared to 254 in the previous locations for new crematoria.
Underlying operating performance in the period.
period has been strong, with operating profit Continued expansion.
of 7.4 million 2013: 6.7 million, an Progress and Developments increase of 10 per cent.
Investment of 1.6 million has been made to develop two locations that were acquired from This improvement reflects very focused, cost local authorities in 2012 and also to acquire efficient marketing combined with a small additional land for use as a cemetery at change in the relative sales volumes of each another location.
A further 0.8 million is affinity partner.
expected to be incurred in 2015 to complete the local authority developments.
The Group In overall terms, approximately 40,000 has also invested 1.8 million maintaining its new plan sales were made and the number locations in the period.
of unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans increased to 348,000 2013: 323,000 as The Group is actively seeking planning at 26 December 2014. permission to develop crematoria at four locations in the United Kingdom.
The initial planning application at one of these locations has been denied and the Group is currently Overview Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19 1.
Lancaster & Morecambe 1 Crematorium has won three horticultural awards in each of the last two years.
The facilities at Weston Super Mare Crematorium were substantially improved in 2014.
Bethaney Welch, Memorial Consultant at Mendip Crematorium.
2 Actions Investment, improvements and strong memorial sales 3 At Dignity we continually invest in our established crematoria so that bereaved families and funeral directors experience the best service and facilities.
The continued investment in crematoria grounds, the wide range of memorials we offer and the expertise of our gardeners persuades an increasing number of families to choose us as the resting place for their loved one.
Sales of memorials and other items have been strong in 2014 increasing by three per cent to 262 per cremation.
We continue to be the largest Opportunities single operator of crematoria Partnerships We are seeking new in Britain.
partnerships to manage local authority owned crematoria.
New build crematoria We are continuing to identify further locations suitable for developing new crematoria.
Dignity plc 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Rise in number of active pre-arranged Operating review Total number of active plans funeral plans over the past five years continued 350,000 348,000 Various partners, such as Age UK, trust us 325,000 323,000 enough to associate their brand and introduce 300,000 290,000 275,000 their customers to our products.
265,000 250,000 225,000 238,000 200,000 175,000 150,000 125,000 100,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Whilst the contribution to this years operating Outlook profit from the marketing activity is reported Opportunities for growth continue through the at the time of sale, it is important to recognise development of existing relationships and the that the sales made represent significant creation of new ones.
We continue to potential future revenues for the funeral focus on increasing division.
These amounts will be recognised The change in the Trusts investment strategy the number of as and when the funerals are performed.
is expected to enhance investment returns in the longer-term for a similar level of risk.
The pre-arranged As with all the Groups operating profit, strategy will however result in greater volatility funeral plans.
pre-arranged funeral plan profits convert year on year in the reported value of the efficiently into cash.
Steve Wallis General Manager Pre-arrangement Progress and Developments Central overheads The increase in the number of unfulfilled plans 348,000 follows plans sold in the year.
Overview Central overheads relate to central services More than 348,000 people have an active pre-arranged The Group has continued to work hard at that are not specifically attributed to a developing its portfolio of affinity partners particular operating division.
and has formed a number of new partnerships the provision of IT, finance, personnel and in the period with organisations in the retail Directors emoluments.
In addition and 40,000 and financial services arena with further consistent with previous periods, the Group trials expected in 2015. records the costs of incentive bonus Focused marketing activity arrangements, such as Long-Term Incentive has resulted in approximately For the third year running, the Groups Plans LTIPs and annual performance 40,000 new funeral plan customer service centre, based at its head bonuses, which are provided to over 100 sales in the period.
office in Sutton Coldfield, gained first prize managers working across the business.
in the annual Top 50 Call Centres for Performance in 2014 Customer Service awards.
This tremendous Developments achievement independently underlines the Strong operational Costs in the period were 17.9 million 2013: performance.
Groups commitment to providing excellent 16.5 million, an increase of 8.5 per cent.
Age UK remains a key As predicted in last years Annual Report, affinity partner.
The financial position of the independent trusts investment has continued in central support holding members monies is crucial, given functions particularly IT and HR to ensure Strategic progress the Group ultimately guarantees the promises operational activity is appropriately supported Plans outstanding continue made to members.
At the end of 2014, the as the business grows.
Incentive costs to grow through direct sales Trusts held over 700 million of assets.
The including LTIP costs and cash bonuses have across our branch network.
latest actuarial valuations of the pre-arranged increased from 4.8 million to 5.8 million.
Continued development of funeral plan trusts at 26 September 2014 opportunities through existing showed them to have sufficient assets to pay Capital expenditure of 0.8 million has been and potential affinity partners.
out all funerals at the current projected rates incurred on central projects predominantly anticipated by the actuary.
The Trustees, the relating to IT that will help the business as majority of whom are independent of the a whole operate more efficiently.
Group, have informed the Group that they have now, with independent external advice, Outlook completed a review of the Trusts investment Further investment in head office departments strategy.
This will result in the Trusts assets is expected in 2015 as the business continues moving to a wider mix of investments, to grow.
including exposures overseas and in equities.
Overview Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 21 12 1.
Literature is available in branches to help clients pre-arrange their funeral.
Dignitys Client Service Centre in Sutton Coldfield has won the Best Call Centre in the UK Award for Customer Service for the third successive year.
Client Service Advisor, Samantha Owen.
Dignitys pre-arrangement website enables new clients to purchase a funeral plan online.
3 Actions Delivering consistently high levels ofclient service and reaching new clients online 4 In 2014 Dignity outperformed many high profile companies and household names to be acknowledged as the Best Call Centre in the UK for the third successive year.
We strive to provide the highest standards of client service and each year Dignity has won the award by continually improving the service we provide resulting in consistently higher ratings in the Top 50 Call Centre survey.
The survey is conducted by GfK Market Research and compiled by mystery callers and real customers with each organisation receiving over 400 calls at varying times over a five month period.
The full results of the survey were printed in a special supplement of the Sunday Telegraph.
We continue to be one of Opportunities the UKs leading providers 640,000 of pre-arranged funeral plans.
We have already helped more than 640,000 people arrange their funeral in advance.
Marketing and Affinity Partners Carefully targeted marketing and an increasing number of affinity partners will allow us to continue to grow this part of our business.
