STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS OPERATIONAL REVIEW DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS The Group operates its business Our core business is in coding and worldwide.
Our primary segmentation is marking.
We develop, manufacture and sell by geography, in three principal regions equipment, consumables and services to Europe, Americas, and Asia Rest of world.
manufacturers who need to code, mark or print variable data on to their products or We have a number of subsidiaries, with packaging.
We are also developing a new some undertaking product development business area in digital printing.
In our case, and manufacturing, and others that digital printing involves using ink jet printing are purely sales and service channels.
technology to print labels in their entirety In addition, a network of distributors or to overprint additional information represents us across approximately where fast changeover times or some 140 countries.
Our distributors typically variability in image is required.
The end have the same operational characteristics users of digitally printed output are as our wholly owned sales subsidiaries typically the same brand owners and and many of them are entirely focused on manufacturers that are the Groups coding the Groups business in their designated and marking customers.
The digital printing business is still a small Alongside the Domino brand, which percentage of Group turnover and is generates approximately 90 per cent of included as part of the total business within Group sales, we operate a number of our primary geographic segmentation.
specialist businesses selling under their own brands in particular market segments.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 19 OPERATIONAL REVIEW EUROPE In Europe, the Group operates direct sales businesses in the UK, France, Germany, Benelux, Spain and Portugal, and makes some direct sales in Switzerland and Sweden.
Will Edwards European Sales Director HIGHLIGHTS Western Europe is a more mature Legislation and industry mandates remain marketfor coding and marking with a large key drivers of our customers investments.
installed base of equipment, whereas many We enjoyed success in the European food EUROPE Eastern European economies continue to and beverage sectors in 2014 as customers invest in new production capacity.
increasingly adopted product traceability Strong revenue growth in many solutions, and in the tobacco sector markets, assisted by a return of Market conditions in many parts of where product authentication is a key confidence in the early part of Europeimproved in the early part of requirement.
The latest legislation in the the year 2014compared with the previous year.
pharmaceutical sector, the Falsified Increased sales of digital label Increased confidence among some Medicines Directive, requires unique presses, including repeat business customers meant we secured a number identification codes to be added to each with existing customers.
oflarger orders during the first half of packet of drugs sold in Europe.
This position changed in attracting significant attention from OUR KEY GOALS IN EUROPE FOR the second half year, as political tensions manufacturers, who are required to 2015INCLUDE: re-emerged and economic news was less comply fully by 2018.
To date, we have Growth in new equipment sales positive.
Continuing low economic growth completed a small number of installations Full adoption of the Groups in many markets, including Germany, meeting these needs and expect demand appears to have reduced confidence again to increase from 2016. latest i-Tech product range and growth prospects in Europe for 2015 Increased penetration of the are uncertain.
labelprinting market with the high-speed N610i seven-colour ink jet digital press.
20 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Europe is an important market for our digital printing business and we made good progress during the year.
Will Edwards Regional Director, Europe Europe is an important market for our We share profit between our manufacturing In 2014, total sales revenue from customers digital printing business and we made and sales businesses in line with normal located in Europe, when translated into goodprogress during the year, with both arms-length rules.
This means that regions sterling at average exchange rates, increased monochrome and full-colour web-based such as Europe, where we undertake a by 9 per cent compared with 2013.
We established a new significant proportion of our manufacturing, growth in local currency was 12 per cent, demonstration and laboratory facility at enjoy higher profit margins as a result with equipment revenues growing by 19 per our headquarters near Cambridge in the of including the profits they make on cent and aftermarket revenues increasing by UK, and expanded our manufacturing inter-company sales to other regions.
Sales to customers located in operations in Switzerland.
Southern and Eastern Europe represented In 2014, the total segment result from approximately 28 per cent of the total and subsidiary companies located in Europe Thirteen full-colour digital label presses grew by 11 per cent in local terms during was 59.6 million, an increase of 6 per cent were sold in Europe during the year, to a the year.
on prior year before exceptional items.
mix of new and existing customers.
There This reflected strong volume growth are clear signs that label printers and brand Sales revenue by location of customer: coupled with robust pricing and a owners are seeing the benefit of digital favourable sales mix.
1 m 2014 2013 Growth label printing and we remain well placed to grow our business as adoption of digital UK 24.5 22.0 11% printing technology increases.
France 22.9 20.9 9% Germany 32.9 30.3 8% In line with our overall goals, our targets Rest of Europe 69.8 64.5 8% for Europe are to grow equipment sales Total 150.0 137.6 9% volumes year on year and to increase our aftermarket revenues, as the installed base 1 Including the impact of exchange rate movements on of equipment expands.
We expect to see translation of results.
higher growth rates in Southern and Eastern Europe.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 21 OPERATIONAL REVIEW AMERICAS integrated our Canadian and US businesses during 2014.
We have retained field sales and service teams in Canada and a small office in Montreal, while combining the marketing, sales support and other back office functions into our US operations, improving efficiency and giving customers more comprehensive support.
Revenue in North America grew by 5 per cent in local terms but decreased by 2 per Frank Eickenberg President, Domino cent when reported in sterling.
Equipment North America revenue growth was 1 per cent and aftermarket revenues were 5 per cent The Group has sales subsidiaries in Canada, higher, both in local terms.
the USA and Mexico, and sells through an extensive distribution network throughout Our strategy in Central and South America Central and South America.
is to focus on supporting and developing our distributor network, enabling sales to The North American market is highly larger multinational accounts where global developed and contains many of the largest relationships are important.
We do not multinational manufacturing companies compete for the very low price business in the sectors we serve.
Market drivers that is prevalent in some countries.
include legislation and industry mandates.
In particular, adoption of the Food Safety In sterling terms, our 2014 sales in Central Modernisation Act in the USA in 2011 has and South America were 9.7 million, increased demand for product traceability 11per cent below 2013.
The decline in and authentication systems.
local currency was 7 per cent.
Revenues declined significantly in some countries, Market conditions in North America were such as Venezuela, where the political and stable during 2014, while Central and South fiscal position has made international trade American markets remained difficult.
Revenues in Brazil, the largest Some of these markets recorded growth market in South America, were similar to but some countries continue to be plagued the prior year and remain depressed when by political, economic or fiscal issues.
Our strategy in North America during Sales revenue by location of customer: HIGHLIGHTS 2014 was to focus on larger opportunities 1 m 2014 2013 Growth in the food, beverage and pharmaceutical sectors and to invest to increase our digital USA 53.7 53.9 0% AMERICAS printing capability.
We were pleased to win Rest of North large orders for our core ink jet and laser Good growth in core sectors America 17.1 18.2 -6% products with a number of major brand Investment in capacity and skills Central & South manufacturers.
Our digital label press America 9.7 11.0 -11% in the digital printing business, business has started to gain traction, with Total 80.5 83.1 -3% to support further growth a further six full-colour presses sold in the Difficult market conditions in US during the year.
1 Including the impact of exchange rate movements on South America.
We have built a strong team to support OUR GOALS FOR 2015 INCLUDE: our digital printing business in North Profitability in our American businesses is Full adoption of the i-Tech America and we are investing to expand below the rest of the Group, which primarily product range the digital printing demonstration and reflects its smaller manufacturing footprint customer training areas at our US Development of the multinational compared with Europe and Asia.
account business and opportunity segment result from subsidiaries located in in the USA the Americas was 4.8 million, an increase of As a part of simplifying our North 6 per cent compared to the prior year.
Acceleration in sales of the N610i American operations, we successfully seven-colour digital label press in North America.
22 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS ASIA REST OF THE WORLD Xiang Min Managing Director, Sales revenue by location of customer: Domino China 1 m 2014 2013 Growth China 42.2 41.9 1% capacity and will meet predicted demand India 19.3 18.5 4% in India for the next phase of our growth in Rest of Asia 32.8 31.1 5% that market.
Our expansion in the Chinese Middle East Africa 25.3 23.4 8% and broader Asian markets means we will Total 119.6 115.0 4% also need to increase production capacity The Group owns direct sales and service in China.
During 2015, we plan to build a businesses in China, India, South Korea and 1 Including the impact of exchange rate movements on new factory in the Shanghai area for both the United Arab Emirates, and supports an translation of results.
extensive distributor network across Asia, the Middle East and Africa, from offices in Average selling prices of equipment in China Profits in our subsidiaries located in Singapore and Dubai.
were affected during the first half of the year, the Middle East Asia fell to 11.1 million as we responded to aggressive pricing from 2013: 13.5 million during 2014, reflecting Demand for our products and services competitors, in particular through our local the adverse impact of exchange rate continues to grow across the region, dealer network.
Average prices stabilised movements on translation of profits and as manufacturers invest to meet the at this lower level in the second half year.
the decline in equipment selling prices, requirements of a rapidly increasing offset by volume gains and cost efficiencies.
Legislation and Retained customers are those who industry mandates are broadly in line continue to buy consumables, spares HIGHLIGHTS with Western equivalents and customer and services from us after the original investment is often in new capacity as equipment sale.
Customer retention opposed to the replacement business rates are lower in Asia than elsewhere ASIA REST OF THE WORLD typically seen in developed markets.
in the world and one of our priorities is to win back customers and increase our Strong growth in India and Despite underlying growth drivers, market aftermarket sales.
Retention rates were continued good growth in the rest conditions during 2014 were mixed, with stable in 2014 compared to 2013. of Asia stronger demand for our products in the Strong volume growth in the early part of the year being tempered as the Our strategy in Asia is to continue to Chinese market, with revenue year progressed, as customers responded expand our market coverage and further growth impacted to some extent to warnings of slower GDP growth.
develop capabilities in our sales channels.
by competitive pricing pressures This is underpinned by our direct operations Against this backdrop, our business in India Opening a new factory in India in China, India and South Korea, where we grew strongly with 2014 revenue growth of and approving plans to maintain market-leading positions.
Our 17 per cent in local currency and 4 per cent commence construction of a new extensive network of distributors provides when translated into sterling at average access to many of the worlds fastest factory inChina.
Total revenues by customer growing markets.
located in the Middle East, Africa and Asia OUR GOALS FOR 2015 INCLUDE: grew by 4 per cent in sterling and by 9 per We have manufacturing operations near Growth in printer volumes while cent in local terms.
China remains our largest New Delhi in India, which serves the sustaining gross margins market by volume for equipment sales.
In Shanghai, China, we Improvement in installed base manufacture and supply printers and retention rates and enhanced consumables for both the local market aftermarket revenues and the broader Asian region.
Development of digital print opportunities During 2014, we opened a new factory in India to house printer and fluids Increase in sales channel capacity.
This significantly increases our Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 23 OPERATIONAL REVIEW OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE This enables us to offer customers short During 2014, our priorities included: Our Group manufacturing leadtimes and to meet their specific strategy can be summarised requirements, despite supplying many Completing the new factory in India as make to order, ship direct product variants.
Expanding our digital label press manufacturing capacity and capability in to customer.
Our process starts with product design, Switzerland to meet expected demand developing product platforms that use for the next phase of growth common parts and are easy to assemble.
Introducing a number of new hardware We need an engaged supply chain, with and fluids products supplier partners undertaking a high Rolling out a number of business degree of product integration.
Our Group process excellence initiatives across the sourcing function therefore works closely Group network.
with a relatively small but experienced supply base, to ensure high-quality, flexible Risk management and disaster recovery and timely supply, alongside constant cost planning in the supply chain is a priority reduction.
Our factories fulfil orders and forus and we regularly stress test our ship to customers.
During the year, we suffered flash flooding at our main UK production The Group has manufacturing operations site.
Our disaster recovery process in Europe, America and Asia ROW.
The functioned well, with only two days principal sites are in: production time lost and negligible disruption to our customers.
The cost of Cambridge, UK, which is the main recovery was not material to Group profits.
manufacturing hub for ink jet products: Liverpool, UK, and Gurnee, USA, which Our goals for 2015 include: are our two main fluids manufacturing operations: and Implementing standard processes and New Delhi, India, and Shanghai, China.
common IT systems across the network to improve efficiency and reduce costs We manufacture laser products in Investing in new production capacity in Hamburg, Germany, print and apply label China and the UK.
machines in Malmo, Sweden, continuous RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ink jet printers in Texas, USA, and in Each year, the Group invests approximately Gottmadingen, Germany, fume extractors 5 per cent of its revenues in research and in Rotherham, UK, and digital label presses development.
One of our key priorities in Egliswil, Switzerland.
is to maintain a strong and innovative product range, which we build on through All our main production locations are regular updates and improvements, as accredited to the ISO9001 quality standard well as new products.
In addition to our and the ISO14001 environmental standard.
printers, we develop new fluids that We maintain high standards of health and perform better for end users, responding safety and our goal is for our entire network to their changing needs and developments to achieve accreditation to the ISO18001 in packaging materials.
occupational health and safety standard.
Our Liverpool and Gurnee plants already Our product creation process includes hold that standard and we were pleased to formal gates at each stage, from innovation gain accreditation at our Cambridge site through to commercialisation.
This process during 2014. improves predictability and reduces time to market.
In addition to plans for a new factory in China, the Group has planning permission for an extensive development and expansion at its headquarters in Cambridge.
Initial ground work has started but we have not yet decided the timing of the full build.
24 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS We introduced a number of new printer adjacent to our core business but has the Performance plus is our web-based and fluids products during the year, potential to overlap, by merging the printing training system, which staff use to learn including variants of our continuous ink jet of fixed and variable data directly onto new skills and confirm their knowledge and thermal transfer printer ranges.
In labels or even packaging itself.
andunderstanding of compulsory subjects, digital printing, we formally launched the such as health, safety and business ethics.
We Historically, package and label printing is an In many of our operations, we support introduced enhanced performance inks for off-line activity, often done by converters apprenticeship schemes and enable young our continuous ink jet and thermal ink jet who supply the brand owners.
However, people to gain experience in a wide variety products, extending the range of materials brand owners are increasingly interested in of functions.
We also developed having their own digital printing capability.
and launched our first water-based ink, for Over time, we expect to see some adopt The working environment is important to the K-Series monochrome digital press.
the welfare of all our staff.
During 2014, we invested further in our UK headquarters, Priorities for 2015 include: We introduced the N-Series digital press improving laboratory and office space for product in 2013 and recognised nine our research and development teams and Further investment in developing our printers in revenue in that year.
We were enhancing the environment, for example coding and marking products, using pleased to record 19 units in revenue in through energy efficient daylight lighting.
common platform architecture 2014, with a further eight where we had We maintained our good safety record Developing enhanced performance started installation at year end or had during the year and continue to closely fluids products customer commitments to install and monitor accidents and near misses.
Working with partners to deploy recognise revenue during 2015. next-generation print-head technology We are committed to equality and for digital press products.
We have continued to invest in our diversity in our workforce and to providing digitalprinting skills and capabilities, both equal opportunity for all.
Across the THE EMERGENCE OF DIGITAL PRINTING inour sales channels and in our product Group, we employ people with a wide mix Digital printing is an area of opportunity development, support and marketing of ethnic and cultural backgrounds and we forus as manufacturers respond to the areas.
We manage the digital print business maintain a good balance between genders.
changing demands of consumers and society as an integral part of the Group, but with a in general.
Short print runs and the ability dedicated team responsible for its strategy Our gender mix is summarised below: to personalise products and add variable and direction.
Number Number data are helping brand owners to increase of women of men consumer choice while reducing production PEOPLE 1 costs, environmental impacts and waste.
The Group employs more than 2,300 Board 2 6 2 people worldwide.
We seek to provide a Senior management 2 6 This demand closely aligns with Dominos safe and engaging environment for them, in Management 53 285 core expertise in coding, marking and which they can fully develop, achieve their Rest of workforce 429 1,562 printing variable data at high speed on potential and share in our success.
Total 486 1,859 or near line, as an integral part of our customers production processes.
Our aim is to attract, develop, motivate 1 Includes Rachel Hurst and Sucheta Govil who were and retain high-calibre people who appointed to the Board on 25 November 2014.
In addition to monochrome overprinting, contribute to the business.
We do this 2 The Senior management category comprises all members which is our core business, our customers by providing a competitive package of of the executive management committee, other than executive Directors who are included within the are now deploying full-colour ink jet printing monetary and non-monetary rewards and Boardcategory.
in a range of packaging, industrial and related benefits, which promotes team working areas.
As the packaging and printing sectors across functions and geographies.
are our biggest source of revenue, this is where we are focusing our development We conduct employee engagement and of digital printing.
management effectiveness surveys across the Group to find out how we are doing Our K-Series monochrome presses are and how we can improve our staffs used to both overprint variable data onto working experience.
In 2014, we pre-printed stock and for mailings, business responded to feedback by revising and forms and other printed matter.
The reinvigorating The Domino Effect, a N-Series full-colour press is focused on statement of our values, strategies and label printing.
This typically involves printing goals that cements the link between the high-quality images onto a variety of individuals role and our Group-level materials, which are then converted into strategies and objectives.
Recent feedback labels and applied to packages during the indicates that this has heightened our production process.
This application is peoples sense of purpose.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 25
