Strategic Report 17 Operating Review Delivering innovative packaging products and services in 25 countries.
Revenues, which have fallen by 3 per cent, UK The divisional results set out have been impacted by the sale of non-core The UK has seen good volume growth, below include a full 12 month businesses.
Profitability has improved due broadly consistent with that of the contribution from the SCA to the benefit of cost synergies, and an Group as a whole, as the corrugated Packaging business versus 10 improved performance from the Kemsley packaging business has led the move mill in Kent.
Here, management has months in the comparative prior to performance-driven specification.
benefited from applying best practice period.
The revenue and operating from mills acquired from SCA, resulting Year ended profit uplift from this acquisition Year ended 30 April in a significant improvement in efficiency 30 April 2013 and profitability at this site.
The Recycling effect is most pronounced in DACH 2014 restated business has continued to grow in line with and Northern Europe, where Revenue m 929 961 our strategy to expand our service offering Operating DS Smith previously had relatively to more European customers, with profit m 64 46 little operational presence, and additional business won in France, Return on sales % 6.9 4.8 Germany and Poland.
At the same time, also in Western Europe and in before amortisation and exceptional items.
we have rationalised our recycling depot Central Europe and Italy, where prior year restated for the impact of IAS 19 Revised 2011. network in the UK from 23 to 13, benefiting the acquired business has from the sites acquired with the SCA The business has succeeded in generating materially expanded our Packaging acquisition and resulting in a increased sales by offering innovative better geographic spread across the UK.
corrugated packaging solutions for products previously packaged in other materials.
We have also gained sales through our retailready packaging focus, designed to drive more sales for both the FMCG customer and the retailer.
At the same time, the packaging business has worked consistently to recover rising input costs driven by paper prices.
com 18 Strategic Report Operating Review continued WESTERN EUROPE DACH AND NORTHERN EUROPE CENTRAL EUROPE AND ITALY Revenue has increased 5 per cent, reflecting Revenue and operating profit have DACH and Northern Europe, which is a the additional two month contribution from increased by 23 per cent and 29 per cent region that DS Smiths corrugated the acquired business and a slight benefit respectively, reflecting the full 12 month businesses did not operate in prior to from foreign exchange translation.
contribution from the acquired business acquiring the SCA Packaging business, has and some benefit from organic growth.
grown revenue 23 per cent and operating Year ended profit by 52 per cent, with the growth driven Year ended 30 April Year ended 30 April 2013 by the full 12 month contribution from the Year ended 30 April 2014 restated acquired business and organic growth.
30 April 2013 2014 restated Revenue m 1,017 966 Year ended Revenue m 739 601 Operating Year ended 30 April profit m 67 73 Operating 30 April 2013 profit m 53 41 Return on sales % 6.6 7.6 2014 restated Return on sales % 7.2 6.8 before amortisation and exceptional items.
Revenue m 1,029 836 prior year restated for the impact of IAS 19 Revised 2011. before amortisation and exceptional items.
Operating prior year restated for the impact of IAS 19 Revised 2011. profit m 96 63 Market conditions in this region have been Return on sales % 9.3 7.5 very challenging with volume growth lower As described in the Financial Review, before amortisation and exceptional items.
Operating profit towards the end of the financial year, the prior year restated for the impact of IAS 19 Revised 2011. has fallen 8 per cent and return on sales power plant adjacent to the paper mill has decreased 100 basis points, reflecting in Italy was acquired.
Volumes in the The growth in margin of 180 basis points the difficult economic and trading conditions corrugated packaging business have principally reflects the benefit of synergies in the region.
The region has benefited from been excellent, driven by Central Europe, being realised, together with the organic the combined business being able to offer substantially above the Group average.
growth within the region and the strong a wider product range to its customers.
This reflects the benefit of developing sales paper pricing benefiting the two mills.
with existing strategic FMCG and industrial Volumes have been strong as a result of a customers and new large and medium size good performance, particularly in Germany.
accounts, with a large part of this growth DS Smith was the clear innovation leader supported by our strength in innovation in the region, winning six Design Awards, as well as our enhanced footprint.
two World Star awards, two German Packaging Prizes, one Superstar and one Popai Award.
DS Smith Germany also won the Nestl Supplier Award in Gold for outstanding customer service, out of 16,000 suppliers.
80 basis points improvement in Group return on sales Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 19 The RTP business, which is based in Europe, PLASTICS has had a very strong year, driven by the Plastics has delivered revenue growth of improvement in the market for transit 5 per cent and operating profit growth of packaging for automotive parts and also 4 per cent, resulting in a modest reduction plastic board for display.
In our crates in operating margin of 10 basis points.
business, we have won a significant contract in eastern Europe with a major Year ended Year ended 30 April brewer, driven by our soft touch crate 30 April 2013 design, which incorporates the strength 2014 restated of rigid plastic with a softer polymer in Revenue m 321 305 the handle and the scope for high quality Operating printing onto the crate.
This makes the profit m 27 26 crate usable both in the supply chain and Return on sales % 8.4 8.5 also in the retail store.
The crate is then before amortisation and exceptional items.
re-used multiple times and, at the end of prior year restated for the impact of IAS 19 Revised 2011. its useful life, can be recycled.
The plastic is ground up by a specialist mobile unit that The Plastics business comprises two DS Smith provides, and the material then elements, flexible packaging and dispensing returned to our site for re-use.
We have FP&D and returnable transit packaging invested in additional capacity behind this RTP.
The FP&D business in the US has business in order to fulfil existing demand had a very good year, delivering good profit for these products.
growth as the business has seen continued success of its Trutap product and of tea-urn liners.
In the European FP&D business, it has been a year of investment, with a substantial reorganisation in our European operations.
Manufacturing has been transferred to eastern Europe, to sites with greater efficiency and with scope for increased production and which are closer to the customers they serve.
There has been disruption to the business during this transfer, which is on track to be substantially completed by December, and this has limited the growth from this business during the year.
80 basis points improvement in Group ROACE dssmith.
