COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT & PROTECTION SOLUTIONS OPERATIONAL REVIEW Component Who we are and what we do We target organic growth through increasing the range of our products, & Protection The Components business is a global, expanding our customer base and Solutions market-leading manufacturer and entering new geographic markets.
distributor of an extensive range of We also seek opportunities to grow The division is a global, market-leading plastic injection moulded, vinyl dip through acquisition, where it can provider of a rapid supply of plastic moulded and metal items.
Operating move our business into complementary and metal products for a broad range units in 27 countries serve over 150,000 product categories or further our of industrial applications.
customers with a rapid supply of essential geographic distribution capability.
components for a variety of applications in a very broad range of industries, such How we performed in 2014 Revenue as equipment manufacturing, automotive, 2014: 243.6m 2013: 223.7m 8.9% fabrication, electronics and construction.
Delivering balanced, profitable growth Revenue increased 8.9% 14.5% at 1 Operating profit The Pipe Protection Technologies business constant exchange to 243.6m.
2014: 58.9m 2013: 52.6m 12.0% specialises in the manufacture of high Excluding the acquisition of Mesan in performance innovative products from December 2013, Kelvindale in May 2014 commodity resins to engineering-grade and Abric Seals in December 2014, thermoplastics and polymer alloys for like-for-like revenue growth was 8.4% use in a range of end-markets.
Locations and was driven by a more positive market in four countries, combined with a wide backdrop and new business wins, as well distributor network, serve customers as the roll out of distribution sites and around the world.
How we do it In Europe, the underlying performance was supported by continued improvement Our objective is to leverage our in the trading environment, and boosted extensive product range and distribution by the consolidation benefits of migrating capability, using our efficient sourcing and the five operating brands to a single manufacturing operations and integrated Essentra Components brand.
Growth IT platform, to respond to the demands in Asia accelerated during the second half of our diverse customer base.
Our tool of the year, benefiting from the recentlylibrary, product development skills and opened south east Asian distribution hub manufacturing experience, combined with in Changi, Singapore, which now holds our inventory and logistics infrastructure, c. 10,000 SKUs for rapid delivery throughout are unique assets.
We have sophisticated the region.
In addition, the Mesan business business-to-business, multi-channel acquired at the end of 2013 performed marketing expertise, and support this well, with a Components catalogue with our knowledgeable sales resource featuring 28,000 products already being and comprehensive product catalogues, marketed to Mesans customers.
which are available in many languages and online.
The successful roll-out programme continued in 2014, with market entry in Thailand, Romania and Mexico.
In addition, a new distribution centre was opened in Louisville, US.
While this was not without challenge, given that it can cover some 70% of US manufacturing GDP within a two-day shipping window, it is ideally located to serve existing customers 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 18 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT & PROTECTION SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM even better and target new customer and finishing products, and provides a Revenue by destination % opportunities.
Not only does this centre compelling market entry point for the Europe and Africa 47.5 hold some 30,000 Components SKUs, Components business.
Having introduced Americas 46.3 but it is also already stocking certain some 12,000 products onto Kelvindales Asia including Middle East 6.2 speciality wipes and porous components website since completion, over 25% of with the potential to leverage the its sales now comes from the Essentra capacity further to encompass more of Components range, and the integration Revenue by end-market % the Essentra Group portfolio over time.
of the acquisition to date is in line Oil and gas 22.7 with expectations.
Fabrication machinery 20.3 Pipe Protection Technologies delivered Distributors 13.4 further excellent growth in 2014, with Then, on 16 December, we reported that Automotive 9.3 encouraging performance across all sites we had completed the acquisition of 100% Electrical electronics 8.0 and supported by successful product of the share capital of Abric Seals.
Based development and new business wins.
in Malaysia, Abric Seals is a global leading Hydraulics pneumatics 4.3 In particular, our innovative and industrymanufacturer and distributor of security Other 22.0 compliant MaxX range of thread sealing products and solutions for use in protectors continued to perform well, a diverse range of growing end-markets, Revenue m underpinned by the recent launch of including healthcare, manufacturing, a liftable variant designed to service energy, retail, transportation and 2010 108.5 drilling wellsite applications that require automotive.
With low-cost manufacturing 2011 135.9 protectors which allow pipes to be lifted facilities in Malaysia and Thailand, Abric 2012 208.4 individually onto the drilling floor.
Seals distribution network additionally 2013 223.7 covers 88 countries, with a strong focus 2014 243.6 The Pipe Protection Technologies business on Asia Pacific which accounts for also benefited from the transition to the approximately 40% of revenue.
1 new organisational structure, with a Operating profit m regional approach in the Americas already Improving operational excellence 2010 23.4 unlocking potential.
Leveraging the Towards the end of the year, we opened 2011 31.1 existing Essentra Group site footprint in two new, purpose-built distribution centres 2012 45.9 Alta Parana, Paraguay and Jaguarina, in Bologna, Italy and Roissy, France.
These 2013 52.6 Brazil, facilitated entry into the sizeable investments provide the necessary space 2014 58.9 latter market for the first time, where to accommodate the Components rapidly investment in polyurethane rise pipe expanding product range in two protector capability will help continue strategically important European markets, 1 Operating margin % the successful commercialisation of and underscore our commitment to 2010 21.6 the growth opportunity.
providing our customers with even greater 2011 22.9 product choice and availability, combined 2012 22.0 Adjusted operating profit grew 12.0% with the best possible delivery and service 18.2% at constant exchange to 58.9m, proposition.
This improvement was driven by As anticipated, the recently-acquired further operating and process efficiencies, Mesan facility in Turkey achieved OHSAS Revenue per employee k as well as savings from the ongoing 18001 certification during the year.
consolidation of the Components 2010 156.1 site footprint.
2011 157.6 2012 146.0 Complemented by value-adding M&A 2013 158.3 On 12 May, we announced that we had 2014 143.5 completed the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Kelvindale.
Based in Australia, Kelvindale is a leading distributor of an extensive range of plastic protection 19 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT & PROTECTION SOLUTIONS 2015 key initiatives Just-in-time delivery What we measure Further site roll out in Components As customers are required to deliver in Dubai, Korea and Ireland their own products just-in-time, so NUMBER OF ACTIVE CUSTOMERS their demand for critical components Why we measure it Grow Pipe Protection Technologies from their suppliers is increasingly on Reflects marketing effectiveness presence in South America the same basis.
and measures the potential population Continue to expand Components for future growth opportunities range in springs and magnets, and Increasing labour costs globalise product offering Standardised manufacturing processes How we have done and components typically require less 15% decrease in customers purchasing in Successfully integrate acquisition labour, thereby helping customers the prior 12 months compared to 2013, of Abric Seals in Malaysia reduce their cost base.
There is also a reflecting the consolidation to a single Exploit new eCommerce platform trend among larger customers to design Essentra brand and upgrade of CRM system in higher technology markets such as the US, UK, Germany, Japan and NEW CUSTOMER ACQUISITION Singapore, and then to manufacture Why we measure it Market trends in lower labour cost regions eg, eastern Reflects the success of targeting organic Europe, China and India, which benefits growth opportunities Given their very wide application, component suppliers with global reach.
the global market for industrial How we have done components is large, fragmented Industry specification 46,699 new customers compares with and ill-defined for both suppliers and As end-markets become more sophisticated 64,517 in 2013, and reflects the customers.
However, management and demanding, so the requirement for consolidation to a single Essentra brand estimates the value of the available higher quality components increases.
market for low cost direct material Over and above this more general trend, MARKETING RESPONSES components at c. 4.5bn pa. certain customers notably those in the oil Why we measure it and gas industry are increasingly facing Indicates the potential revenue generating Manufacturing GDP growth rate regulatory guidelines in terms of the impact of marketing investment With low cost direct material components specification of the components they use.
being used in a very broad spectrum of How we have done industrial end-markets, those countries Key new product opportunities 7% decrease in marketing responses with a higher manufacturing GDP growth Continue range expansion, to provide versus 2013, reflecting the consolidation rate are particularly attractive.
customers with the broadest selection to a single Essentra brand of components Increased use of standard components ON TIME IN FULL There is an increasing move to small, Develop new sectors for existing Why we measure it specialised manufacturing businesses, customer base, such as hardware Demonstrates the ability to meet delivery which assemble their specialised parts Globalise successful local products demands and equipment from a range of standard through established supply chain components.
This approach provides them How we have done with flexibility, the ability to move quickly Enter new and adjacent product 86.4% compares to 90.4% in 2013 and provide their own customers with the markets, such as point of purchase service they require.
Launch products which are compliant with new industry standards Further information on www.
com 20 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | POROUS TECHNOLOGIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Porous Who we are and what we do Quality is at the forefront of the divisions efforts, given the critical role many of Technologies Our range consists of components our components play in our customers which serve as a critical part of a variety end-products.
Our production sites are The division is a world leader in the of end-products, including medical ISO 9001:2008 compliant, and our facility development and manufacture of diagnostic devices, wound care products, in St. Charles, US is also ISO 13485:2003 customised liquid and vapour handling writing instruments, printer cartridges, certified.
Quality laboratories at each of products engineered from three air fresheners, cosmetic applicators our facilities provide consistency checks material technologies: bonded and and speciality wiping products used throughout the production process, non-woven fibre, polyurethane foam in critical environments such as clean to assure reliability and satisfaction and porous plastic.
Revenue How we do it How we performed in 2014 2014: 89.8m 2013: 100.0m -10.2% Our objective is to leverage our technical Revenue decreased -10.2% -5.7% 1 Operating profit expertise in collaboration with our at constant exchange to 89.8m.
2014: 15.8m 2013: 23.5m -32.8% customers, to provide them with Adjusting for the transfer of a portion innovative, high quality, reliable, quickof intercompany revenue to the Filter to-market solutions to their respective Products division, like-for-like growth fluid and vapour handling challenges.
The divisions R&D teams focus on each An increase of 41% in household and of our three material technologies and personal care together c. 10% divisional constantly develop new intellectual revenue was driven by significant new property regarding materials, processes business wins in air care with multinational and applications, with a view to providing customers, while growth of 21% in new and existing customers with unique speciality wipes c. 23% divisional revenue solutions.
Our orientation towards R&D came from the ongoing success of further enables us to offer prototypes and globalising the product portfolio and new modifications, to ensure components fit applications in critical care environments.
perfectly to our customers applications.
Healthcare c. 22% divisional revenue rose 9%, led by wound care and products using We seek to use our global footprint to porous plastics.
provide our customers with shorter lead times and supply security.
As our multiple In writing instruments c. 29% divisional locations utilise many identical proprietary revenue, new sales of nibs to global processes and independent supply chains, customers were offset by the impact of we are able to provide a reliable source of a more challenging market backdrop, such back-up supply capability around the that the total result decreased by -3%.
In addition, our global outlook As anticipated, the performance in printer allows us to respond to the various needs systems c. 15% divisional revenue of of our customers in differing geographies -44% reflected the impact of inventory and cultures.
destocking with a major global OEM, where shipments recommenced in the second half of the year and improved in Q4.
1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 21 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | POROUS TECHNOLOGIES In 2014, the division continued its track Investing in operational excellence Revenue by destination % record of converting its intellectual and execution Americas 49.0 property and manufacturing know-how A number of operational initiatives were Europe and Africa 26.9 into commercial success.
This included completed during the year.
To support Asia including Middle East 24.1 customer qualifications of superior global growth opportunities, a new nib medical grade foam for wound care product development line was installed applications, new platform wins with at the Richmond, US site, facilitating Revenue by end-market % an Asian printer systems OEM and initial both product development and rapid Writing instruments 29.0 orders in both water and automotive turnaround sampling.
In addition, and Health care 23.1 engine filtration.
building on the extension of the sterile Clean room 20.1 alcohol bottling facility undertaken Printer systems 15.5 The business also collaborated in product in 2013, there was further investment Household products 9.6 development with other Essentra divisions by in new laminator and sachet lines in providing innovative porous components.
Chicopee, US, to support further growth Other 2.7 One such successful initiative was the and range expansion opportunities in AquaSense consumer packaging label, speciality wipes.
Revenue m which features a unique absorbent pad that 2010 74.7 is activated by the consumer on opening the As anticipated, our facility in Reinbek, pack or tub.
The pad is placed under a tap Germany achieved ISO 50001 status 2011 77.9 and soaks up a specific amount of water in 2014.
2012 85.8 which it then releases within the pack, 2013 100.0 keeping contents fresh, controlling humidity 2015 key initiatives 2014 89.8 and reducing product waste due to goods Focus on infection prevention control drying out.
In addition, the division was for new medical components and 1 Operating profit m pleased to support the commercialisation antimicrobial wound care foam of Essentras range of smokeless nicotine 2010 17.7 Install a new cleanroom to devices by developing a unique and superior 2011 18.4 manufacture medical components reservoir technology.
The Essentra patented 2012 20.6 process allows for the formation of rigid Increase sales of writing instrument nibs 2013 23.5 three-dimensional structures acting as a made from porous plastic, combined 2014 15.8 reservoir that can hold, transfer and deliver with investment in new production nicotine and other liquids prior to conversion equipment in Asia and the Americas to a vapour state.
1 Operating margin % Expand offering in industrial air filtration 2010 23.7 Adjusted operating profit decreased Reinforce global distribution network 2011 23.6 -32.8% -29.3% at constant exchange in speciality wipes, and exploit 2012 24.0 to 15.8m and the margin declined by cross-selling opportunities 2013 23.5 590bps.
Successful cost reduction Develop new insecticide and innovative initiatives and productivity improvements 2014 17.6 new air freshener wick opportunities were offset by the mix effect of the aforementioned inventory destocking, Revenue per employee k with margins returning towards more normalised levels in the second half of 2010 164.2 the year, as anticipated.
COM Market trends Non-woven products: growing What we measure requirement for sensitive environments Management estimates the global Industries such as electronics increasingly INNOVATION PERCENTAGE OF SALES addressable market for our porous operate in controlled environments, while DERIVED FROM NEW PRODUCTS technologies products at around others eg, hospitals have a requirement Why we measure it 1.2bn, with low to high single-digit for clean room conditions to combat Demonstrates the success of new products growth.
The underlying growth rates infection and or contamination risk.
and technologies and key trends vary depending on the end-market served and the respective Writing instruments: range expansion How we have done fluid or vapour handling challenge Customers are increasingly looking for 13.8% of revenue generated from products being addressed.
a total solutions provider from ink launched in the last three years reservoirs to nibs.
Printing systems: performance SUSTAINED IP DEVELOPMENT improvements Key new product opportunities Why we measure it While the market shows a degree of Improved technologies to further Continued development of intellectual uncertainty given trading difficulties enhance fluid and vapour handling property to support future growth and reported by certain OEMs, customers capability strong development project pipeline continue to look to enhance the Additional technology platforms, to performance of their products, such How we have done take advantage of new end-market as through the use of increasingly Currently 38 2013: 28 patents in opportunities complex inks.
force in the US, with 10 2013: 18 Further range expansion applications pending Healthcare: enhanced fluid handling Investment in faster-growing product capabilities and changing customer CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS end-markets, such as medical patient needs Why we measure it Market growth is partly driven by the Continued focus on customer Drives performance of quality systems migration from slower and more expensive partnerships and service delivery laboratory-based testing to results being provided at the point of care.
How we have done 81 complaints, being a 4.7% decrease In addition, a globally ageing population versus 2013 is resulting in a change in the incidence of medical conditions such as diabetes MAN HOURS PER MACHINE HOUR which require advanced wound Why we measure it care products.
Indicative of shop floor productivity Household & personal care: emerging How we have done market growth 1.73 2013: 1.77 man hours per Consumers are increasingly transitioning machine hour to more sophisticated household and personal care products.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PACKAGING & SECURING SOLUTIONS Packaging Who we are and what we do The Packaging business manufactures a range of cartons, tapes, leaflets, foils, & Securing Solutions The Packaging & Securing Solutions labels, closures and seals which offer division comprises the following activities: functional benefits to packaged goods The division is a leading global through providing easy opening and supplier to the health and personal care, Essentra Packaging is a global provider resealability.
Our products are also the consumer and specialist packaging of healthcare and consumer packaging ideal medium to carry sophisticated sectors, and to the point of purchase products.
Our Packaging Resolved branding and communications messages, and paper & board industries.
It is also positioning emphasises the four core in the form of printed images, text or data.
a leading provider of brand protection themes of Open, Close, Inform and and identity solutions.
Protect, where our cartons, tapes, Additionally, we look to add value to our leaflets, foils, labels and brand protection customers packaging through providing security solutions can combine to provide brand protection solutions, such as tamper all or merely one of these benefits.
From evidence or authentication technologies, helping to ensure that consumers do to enable them to identify and secure Revenue not get frustrated in opening packs to products in the fight against counterfeiting.
2014: 216.3m 2013: 181.8m 19.0% providing the reassurance that goods Our offering comprises overt, covert and are fresh and have not been tampered forensic technologies.
1 Operating profit with, our packaging components can be 2014: 38.3m 2013: 30.2m 26.8% an integral part of the product and brand The Security business has been at pack experience.
the forefront of ID technology for over 30 years, and has access to the widest Essentra Security is Europes leading portfolio of products and services, including provider of ID card printers, systems and printers, software and consumables from accessories to direct and trade customers, leading manufacturers.
Our systems providing the broadest product offering produce durable, high quality, credit and most competitive value.
card-style photo ID cards which are compatible with the majority of security Essentra Speciality Tapes is a leading systems, and which can be specified to manufacturer and distributor of adhesive incorporate magstripes, barcodes, coated products for a wide range of contactless chips or smart cards.
To industries and applications, in particular complement our ID card systems, the the point of purchase sector.
Security business also offers a range of manual and electronic visitor Collectively, the division serves customers in management systems, as well as an over 100 countries from facilities operating extensive range of ID accessories such in ten countries.
They are supported by an as badge holders, clips and lanyards.
in-house design studio, R&D and multimillion pound print facilities, to deliver the The Speciality Tapes business has very best in quality, service and reliability.
expertise in coating multiple adhesive systems in numerous technologies.
With How we do it close to 3,000 adhesive products available for same-day shipping, our products can Our objective is to use our business meet all high performance needs, from development philosophy and resources foam, magnetic, finger lift and acrylic to identify innovation opportunities high bond tapes to hook and loop and and translate these into novel, workable non-skid foam.
We seek to leverage our well-invested and developing international footprint to provide market-leading quality and service on a global basis, and to add value for both customers and consumers.
1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 24 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PACKAGING & SECURING SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM How we performed in 2014 AquaSense with the Porous Technologies With a product portfolio including folding division, the first example of Essentras carton, product literature and labels, Delivering balanced, profitable growth Active Label Technology and further details Clondalkin SPD is complementary to our Revenue increased 19.0% 22.0% at of which can be found on page 22. existing packaging and authentication constant exchange to 216.3m.
Adjusting capabilities, thereby broadening the for the healthcare packaging acquisitions Growth in Speciality Tapes was driven by a range and innovation we can offer our of Contego and Dakota with effect from strong performance in the industrial, point customers, who are increasingly seeking a 30 April 2014, like-for-like growth was 4.7%.
of purchase and online shopping endglobal partner for their packaging needs.
Finger Lift tape continued to The result in Packaging reflected a positive perform well, benefiting from our recent Investing in operational excellence performance in healthcare and consumer expansion of hot melt capability at the and execution packaging and boosted by new product Chicago, US site, and was supported by In 2014, we successfully completed a launches partially offset by tear tape the Foam and Duraco Red tape ranges.
number of operational initiatives to sales to the tobacco industry, where From a geographical perspective, the help support future revenue growth market conditions remain challenging.
result reflected a particularly strong opportunities and to generate further contribution from the growing Express efficiency savings.
In healthcare packaging, 2014 was another strong year for footprint in North America, boosted by new, more energy waste efficient successful packaging innovation.
In encouraging performance in China.
equipment was installed in a number healthcare packaging, we introduced of European facilities, with our sites at the Parenteral Paper Pack carton, a Adjusted operating profit increased 26.8% Portsmouth, Bradford and Newmarket, new concept in display boxes designed 30.0% at constant exchange to 38.3m.
UK and Dublin, Ireland also all successfully specifically for fragile items such as vials, The 110bps improvement in the margin passing ethical audits on the part of bottles and syringes.
A variety of our overt to 17.7% was driven by accelerating customers.
In addition, and as anticipated, and covert tamper and authentication healthcare acquisition synergies, the site at Wolfen, Germany secured solutions can also be built into this carton, combined with ongoing cost savings ISO 50001 accreditation.
to protect against potential counterfeit and efficiency initiatives.
or tampering including holography, Towards the end of the year, we Patron security inks, taggant systems Complemented by value-creating M&A officially opened our new purpose-built and tamper-evident labels which can In November, we announced an agreement manufacturing facility in Newport, UK, form a vital component of the measures to acquire Clondalkin SPD, which will further which provides us with a 52,000 sq.
ft. site required to meet the EU Falsified Medicines expand our packaging solutions capabilities from which to meet the growing demands Directive.
And among our innovative to the pharmaceutical, health and personal of both existing and new business across leaflet formats were the PiggyBack care industries.
The facility and Triple PiggyBack two or three-fold incorporates our latest investment in leaflets glued together back-to-back in As a leading global provider of a broad digital printing and cleanroom technology a compact design, as well as Plurium, a suite of speciality secondary packaging for the production of primary packaging multi-page booklet with additional space solutions, the transaction transforms foils for the healthcare market.
To ensure for information but compact when folded.
Essentras position in these targeted the exacting requirements are fulfilled for end-markets.
In addition, as a leading this new product, the cleanroom meets Building on the Packaging Resolved player in North America and with strong the Class 8 ISO standards and is a first for commercial positioning around the market positions in Europe, Clondalkin Essentra, enabling us to better service our four key aspects of effective packaging SPD significantly enhances our existing healthcare customers from this world class launched in 2013, our Re:Close Tape geographic presence in healthcare operation.
The site already meets all of the was created in response to growing packaging and, through leveraging Companys internal standards, having consumer demand.
The tape allows a the combined footprint of both our gained the triple certification of ISO 9001, product to be retained in the original businesses, will allow us to further ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, as well as the pack between uses and has added exploit both existing, and attractive BRC IoP global standard for packaging user-friendly reclosability to millions of new growth opportunities.
packs of bagged snacks on-shelf in Europe, thereby facilitating portion control.
And as part of our Protect range, we also developed and jointly patented 25 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PACKAGING & SECURING SOLUTIONS 2015 key initiatives Revenue by destination % What we measure Further develop innovative, creative Europe and Africa 75.3 and functional packaging solutions INNOVATION PERCENTAGE OF Americas 18.0 SALES DERIVED FROM RECENTLY Successfully integrate Clondalkin Asia including Middle East 6.7 DEVELOPED PRODUCTS SPD acquisition and deliver Why we measure it integration savings Demonstrates the success of new Revenue by end-market % Grow market shares in health, beauty products and technologies Healthcare 52.3 and personal care packaging Tobacco 15.7 How we have done Leverage geographical footprint Document & identity solutions 7.0 27.9% of revenue generated from and account management discipline Consumer goods 7.0 products launched in the last three to increase customer relevance and Transit packaging 4.4 years excluding acquisitions revenue potential Other 13.6 Use existing packaging expertise ON TIME IN FULL to build a position in faster-growing Why we measure it Revenue m opportunity markets Drives performance of quality systems 2010 88.8 and service delivery Continue geographic expansion 2011 99.7 and commercialisation of new How we have done 2012 114.9 end-markets in Speciality Tapes 90.2% compares to 95.8% in 2013 2013 181.8 excluding acquisitions 2014 216.3 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION CUSTOMER 1 Operating profit m COMPLAINTS Why we measure it 2010 18.2 Drives performance of quality systems 2011 20.3 and delivery 2012 21.8 2013 30.2 How we have done 2014 38.3 7.9% decrease in complaints from 2013 excluding acquisitions 1 Operating margin % 2010 20.5 2011 20.3 2012 19.0 2013 16.6 2014 17.7 Revenue per employee k 2010 187.7 2011 190.4 2012 193.2 2013 143.8 2014 142.6 26 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PACKAGING & SECURING SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Market trends Provision of total solutions Customers are increasingly seeking Management estimates the value of the a partner which can deliver a complete global market addressable for specialist offering from design to end-supply secondary health and personal care as well as individual products capable packaging, pressure sensitive tear tapes of providing multiple pack benefits.
and speciality tapes at c. 10bn, growing at a low to mid single-digit level depending Key new product opportunities on the end-markets served.
Investment in technology, to develop novel, value-added packaging and Increasing consumer communication brand protection solutions Packaging is increasingly used to Functional packaging benefits, such as communicate brand messages, and to opening, closing and tamper evidence engage with consumers via promotions or competitions.
Eco-friendly packaging solutions, such as closing and resealing Functionality and convenience of Creative and secure design solutions packaging to provide enhanced communication There is a growing demand for packaging and authentication opportunities which not only offers optimum product protection, but is also easy for consumers to access without frustration.
Brand and identity protection and Further information on: verification www.
com Brand owners have a continued need to www.
com protect their assets from counterfeiters, www.
com while public and private organisations require secure identification of individuals.
Legislation Increasing regulatory requirements, such as the European Falsified Medicines Directive, are driving demand for tamper evident packaging, while the more standardised pack requirements of the EU Tobacco Products Directive potentially limit the scope for innovative solutions.
Sustainability and waste reduction There is a growing need for packaging to be resealable so as to maintain freshness and reduce waste, as well as to have a lower environmental impact.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS Filter Products Who we are and what we do Research in filters is carried out at a dedicated Technology Centre, supported The division is the only global The Filter Products division is the only by three regional development facilities.
independent provider of filters global independent supplier of filters.
Together, they work closely with customers and related solutions to the Not only do we offer standard filters, to understand their specific needs, and tobacco industry.
but as the leading supplier of special strive to deliver innovative solutions which filters we offer innovative solutions that will give their brands differentiation and meet the consumer-driven demands of relevance, at a pace appropriate to local Revenue the tobacco industry against a backdrop market conditions and legislative 2014: 291.5m 2013: 269.9m 8.0% of ongoing legislative changes.
Our offering is further enhanced by our ability to complement 1 Operating profit We also increasingly provide adjacent our customers own strengths and assets 2014: 43.9m 2013: 40.1m 9.5% services to the tobacco industry.
Our in a variety of tolling, or outsourced Scientific Services facility located in the management, relationship arrangements, UK was one of the first independent as well as our growing adjacent services externally accredited laboratories for the activities.
testing of cigarettes, cigarette filters, smokeless devices such as e-cigarettes We continuously upgrade our technology and low ignition propensity LIP for and footprint, to ensure we exceed our cigarette papers, and has over 20 years customers expectations and remain at experience of providing analytical services the forefront of market trends.
Our flexible to state monopolies and both independent global manufacturing capability allows and multinational customers.
Additionally, us to respond rapidly to market changes we offer a full bespoke range for the and customer demand for surge volumes, design, packing and packaging of filters for while a consistent focus on high standards roll your own brands, providing an efficient of quality, cost control and production and cost-effective solution to delivering efficiency act as further sources of retail-ready products to the market.
The Filter Products division supplies How we performed in 2014 over 700 product specifications to more than 320 customers, including all Delivering balanced, profitable growth the multinational tobacco companies.
Revenue increased 8.0% 16.2% at constant We have nine manufacturing facilities exchange to 291.5m.
Underlying in nine countries, supported by a volumes were ahead of the prior year, dedicated research facility and three with particularly strong growth in Asia, regional development centres.
and in both special and flavoured filters.
In FY 2014, Asia accounted for 59% volumes How we do it FY 2013: 61%.
Innovation is at the heart of our business, 2014 saw the successful launch of a and our objective is to develop valuenumber of proprietary new products creating partnerships with our customers.
and development initiatives, as well as We seek to leverage our long-standing the successful commercialisation of recent experience, expertise and insight to contract wins.
Among our innovations provide brand differentiation and during the period was Dual Sensation, identity solutions, as well as excellence a new filter solution which enables a in both manufacturing and service.
capsule segment to be combined in a Our recognised ability to provide new multi-segment filter, giving customers value-added products and services is key greater design flexibility to provide their to the divisions future growth, as market consumers with flavour on demand and dynamics in the tobacco industry continue the benefits of either carbon or a visually to evolve.
This innovation was also 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 28 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM introduced as Super Slim Sensation, of analytical results from our accredited Not only does such investment allow us to bringing the same interactive capsule testing laboratory, we can assure continue to meet our customers current technology to smaller circumference customers that our e-cigarette solutions needs in terms of quality and functional cigarettes and thereby catering to the are not only innovative but also reliable, tolerances, but also their future fastest growing segment in the tobacco thereby addressing the issue of requirements as the global tobacco market.
In addition, we announced our inconsistent performance which our industry continues to evolve.
latest advance in degradability, with the in-depth market research identified launch of a unique plugwrap material that as a key consumer concern.
2015 key initiatives disperses in water at least three times Continue to align geographic footprint faster than standard alternatives, Adjusted operating profit rose 9.5% with market shift in production volume addressing increasing public concerns over 18.7% at constant exchange to 43.9m, Respond to rising demand for new the degradability of cigarette butts and equating to a 20bps improvement in the filter formats and flavours in Asia the corresponding demand for more margin to 15.1%.
A further improvement and the Middle East  products.
in productivity and efficiency initiatives combined with significant savings in the Improve value proposition in more During the year, we continued our track second half of the year from the closure competitive mature markets record of supporting customers in the of our site in Italy were partially offset Strengthen regional R&D capability, to development of bespoke solutions tailored by the one-off cost of the latter in H1.
support the growing requirement in Asia to their specific needs, with such joint activity increasing 11% versus FY 2013.
Improving operational Rapidly grow e-cigarette offering In support of our future innovation excellence and efficiency and expand SND range capabilities through ongoing intellectual Leverage further benefits from property, a total of nine patent and In order to ensure that we continue to investment in high speed, more trademark applications were filed in 2014. deliver value, we are committed to flexible equipment maintaining a flexible and competitive Our Scientific Services laboratory geographic footprint.
With our customers continued to perform well, further building continuing to shift their production from on its extensive experience and expanded western to eastern Europe and Asia, range of accredited testing methods.
during the year we took the decision The growth was boosted by our expertise to expand our facility in Hungary and in field of e-cigarettes, which has to close the site in Italy.
significantly contributed to our becoming the largest independent tobacco testing We also expanded our state-of-the-art laboratory in Europe.
joint venture facility in Dubai, UAE, which is well-positioned to meet the requirements As an innovator and trusted partner to of cigarette manufacturers based in the the tobacco industry, it is essential that Middle East and North Africa region for we identify and respond to evolving innovative filter products and solutions, markets trends which impact our supported by our extensive technical customers in a way that enables us experience and expertise.
As anticipated, to continue to add value to them.
As this site attained both ISO 14001 and OHSAS such, we were pleased to launch a new, 18001 accreditations during the year.
full-service e-cigarette offering during the year, to allow them to meet the growing In 2014, we continued our investment in global demand for smokeless nicotine high-speed equipment to underpin our products.
Indeed, following extensive objective of improving capability and research and development, we successfully capacity, not least in Thailand where commercialised a number of fullythe expansion of the facility and the functional and packaged products, which installation of the latest machines will draw upon the broad range of solutions support a long-term supply agreement which the entire Essentra Group can with a multinational customer.
deliver not merely the Filter Products division.
In addition, with the backing 29 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS Revenue by destination % Market trends Consumer engagement As per capita income rises particularly in Asia including Middle East 39.9 The global tobacco market is valued at eastern markets so lifestyles change and Europe and Africa 38.2 c. US$740bn, with broadly flat cigarette new segments are created, with different Americas 21.9 retail volume growth.
consumer expectations and aspirations from the products which they purchase.
Sales volume by type % Regulation As such, there is an increasing demand The tobacco industry is heavily regulated for new products to reflect these changes.
Monoacetate 44.1 around the world on health grounds, with Other special 37.6 significant restrictions on the way in which Consumer need Carbon 13.5 products can be marketed to consumers.
Consumers are increasingly concerned Flavour 4.8 Legislation continues to evolve, both in with environmental matters, such as respect of traditional cigarettes and sustainability and pollution, and the innovations such as e-cigarettes, as well impact of products which they purchase.
Revenue m as surrounding the testing and packaging Such needs are often unspoken but 2010 200.7 requirements for these products.
create challenges for the industry to 2011 208.0 supply products which address such 2012 233.6 Illicit trade considerations.
2013 269.9 Counterfeiting of tobacco products is a 2014 291.5 significant and increasing challenge for Cost and price the industry, undermining brand value, As the price of cigarettes has continued presenting a risk to consumers from low to increase, growth opportunities have 1 Operating profit m quality goods and reducing tax revenues.
been created for other industry segments 2010 23.7 The illicit trade accounts for approximately including roll your own and Other Tobacco 2011 24.5 10% of duty-paid cigarette volumes and is Products, such as chewing tobacco.
estimated to be growing at c. 9% pa well 2012 28.6 ahead of the overall industry.
Key new product opportunities 2013 40.1 Lifestyle solutions eg, Slims Super 2014 43.9 Beyond tobacco products Slims, low ultra-low tar, eco ranges The market for products beyond traditional Brand-specific requirements, such 1 Operating margin % cigarettes continues to evolve rapidly.
as recessed filters There is increased interest in other nicotine 2010 11.8 delivery mechanisms which offer heat Enhanced user experience, such 2011 11.8 but not burn, in particular in e-cigarettes as capsules, flavoured thread and 2012 12.2 which are reportedly delivering rapid growth activated carbon 2013 14.9 albeit from a low base and which are Full bespoke service for roll your 2014 15.1 forecast to continue doing so.
own brands East versus West Provision of scientific services Revenue per employee k Accounting for over 60% of total world 2010 126.1 cigarette volume, the growth markets of 2011 136.2 Asia dominate the global tobacco industry 2012 143.1 and are forecast to continue to increase.
2013 163.7 2014 168.3 30 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM What we measure CONVERSION COSTS AS PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE Why we measure it Continued focus delivers financial performance How we have done 25.4%, a 40bps improvement from 25.8% in 2013 ON TIME IN FULL Why we measure it Demonstrates the ability to meet delivery demands How we have done 92.1% compares to 96.9% in 2013 QUALITY COMPLAINTS PER BILLION RODS Why we measure it Drives productivity and the efficient use of material How we have done 3.8 complaints per billion rods, an increase from 2.7 in 2013 WASTE Why we measure it Drives productivity and the efficient use of material How we have done 6.7%, a reduction from 8.0% in 2013 Further information on www.
