28HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 diviSionAL oPerAting review ASIA PACIFIC TEMPORARY 78% 57% 43% 22% PERMANENT PUBLIC PRIvATE net feeS bY SPeCiALiSm net feeS bY CountrY 1.
Malaysia 1% 6 7 5 1 4 ASiA PACifiC 3 6 2 2 1 5 3 4 2014 HigHLigHtS Looking forwArd Australia tough but sequentially stable for the last six months Take the necessary positive steps to react as market conditions in Australia begin to show signs of improvement 1 12% net fee decline in Australia & New Zealand over the 1 financial year, with Perm business down 20% Selective consultant headcount investment in growth areassuch as IT, Banking and Life Sciences in Asia 1 Excellent performance in Asia: net fees up 25% with double digit growth in all countries Remain cautious about investment where conditions are morechallenging Depreciation in the rate of exchange between the Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen versus sterling reduced net fees in the Build further scale in our Japan business, a future material division by 26.4 million and operating profits by 9.2 million profit driver of the Group that we believe can make 10 million profit in the next three to five years Consultant headcount increased by 3% in Asia Pacific division: Australia & New Zealand down 2% year-on-year: Asia up 16% Expect headcount to increase selectively through the first half of the year as we invest to support opportunities for growth oPerAting PerformAnCe 1 YeAr ended 30 June 2014 2013 Actual growth LFL growth Net fees m 173.9 211.8 18 % 6 % Operating profit m 49.7 67.2 26 % 14 % 2 Conversion rate 28.6% 31.7% 3 Period-end consultant headcount 1,055 1,024 3% Division as % of Group net fees 24% 29% 1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency.
2 Conversion rate is the proportion of net fees converted into operating profit, before exceptional items.
3 Closing consultant headcount as of 30 June.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 28HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 29 AuStrALiA tougH but SeQuentiALLY At a specialism level, whilst Accountancy Hays is the market-leading specialist StAbLe for tHe LASt Six montHS: & Finance remained tough and was down recruitment company in Australia, 1 exCeLLent PerformAnCe in ASiA 21%, our largest specialism, Construction having been a pioneer of the industry 1 In Asia Pacific, net fees decreased by 18% &Property, was flat.
We saw good net fee inthe country since 1976.
1 1 6% on a like-for-like basis to 173.9 million growth of 6% in New Zealand.
and operating profit decreased by 26% 14% Our market-leading position in every state In Asia, which accounted for 21% of the 1 on a like-for-like basis to 49.7 million, of the country, alongside our breadth of divisions net fees, we delivered excellent representing a conversion rate of 28.6% experience and technical expertise across 1 net fee growth of 25% and operating 2013: 31.7%.
The difference between actual alarge range of specialisms, enables us 1 profits more than doubled to 4.9 million.
growth and like-for-like growth rates is primarily to understand market trends and act as a Four ofthe five Hays businesses in the region the result of the material depreciation in the key partner to many of Australias leading delivered record annual net fees and all five rate of exchange between the Australian companies.
For many of these companies, 1 businesses delivered growth of over 15%.
Dollar and Japanese Yen versus sterling contract and temporary workers make up 1 Net fees in China grew 25%, Singapore during the year, which reduced net fees in an essential, and in some cases substantial, 1 1 1 28%, Malaysia 29% and Hong Kong 42%.
the division by 26.4 million and operating part of their workforce.
1 In Japan, net fees increased by 17% and profits by 9.2 million.
Prevailing rates of market conditions were strong throughout National Australia Bank Group NAB is currency exchange continue to represent theyear.
a financial services organisation with over a significant sensitivity for the reported 12million customers and 42,000 people, performance of the division.
Consultant headcount in the Asia Pacific operating more than 1,800 branches and division increased by 3% year-on-year, 1 In Australia, net fees decreased by 13% as Service Centres globally.
As part of a larger weighted towards additions made in the overall market conditions remained tough transformation agenda, NAB commenced second half.
In Australia & New Zealand, throughout the year.
Temp net fees, which a review of all recruitment processes, consultant headcount decreased by 2% represented 70% of net fees, decreased by systems and partnerships to enable them year-on-year but was up 3% through the 1 9% but were sequentially stable through to operate more efficiently.
In Asia, we ended the year 1 the year.
Perm net fees decreased by 24% selected by NAB to provide end-to-end with over 350 consultants and consultant as candidate confidence remained subdued, management of the sourcing, on-boarding headcount increased by 16% as we invested and that market was challenging through and timesheeting of all temporary workers to drive growth and capitalise on supportive the year although activity levels were and payrolling of allHays-sourced market conditions across the region.
broadly stable for the final six months.
temporary workers, aswell as all NAB sourced Contractors.
we HAve deveLoPed A verY effeCtive working PArtnerSHiP witH HAYS One year on and the transformation we were looking to achieve is certainly taking shape.
The implementation of this solution has been a true partnership, with Hays adding value through their expertise, technology and know-how.
Wehave been able to realise the efficiencies we were looking for and feedback from the business and employees has been excellent.
We have developed a very effective working partnership with Hays and I am looking forward to seeing how we continue to evolve the way we manage this important and essential part of ourworkforce.
HArrY drAkoS general manager of Procurement &Sourcing, national Australia bank 30HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 diviSionAL oPerAting review CONTINENTAL EUROPE & REST OF WORLD TEMPORARY 00% 97% 61% 39% 3% PERMANENT PUBLIC PRIvATE net feeS bY SPeCiALiSm net feeS bY CountrY 1.
Other 15% 6 7 5 6 Ce&row 5 4 1 4 1 3 3 2 2 2014 HigHLigHtS Looking forwArd 1 Good net fee growth of 8% to 305.0 million, a record Leverage market-leading position in German IT and Engineering forthedivision whilst continuing to diversify into newer specialisms 1 Germany delivered good net fee growth of 8%, with strong Continue to take advantage of the improved conditions in performances in newer specialisms of Accountancy & Finance therest of Europe to build scale and improve profitability and Construction & Property Continue to build scale and diversify within our North 1 Rest of division grew 8%, with 14 countries growing by over Americanbusinesses 1 10% : and delivered a material 7.7 million profit increase Control costs where conditions are more difficult 1 CE&RoW delivered a 20% increase in operating profit which Expect headcount to increase on a selective basis in the first 2 drove an increase in conversation rate to 21.1% half of the year, with Germany remaining broadly stable and Consultant headcount increased by 3%, primarily in the first half investments to support growth in the rest of the division of the financial year oPerAting PerformAnCe 1 YeAr ended 30 June 2014 2013 Actual growth LFL growth Net fees m 305.0 285.2 7% 8% Operating profit m 64.4 52.7 22% 20% 2 Conversion rate 21.1% 18.5% 3 Period-end consultant headcount 2,145 2,084 3% Division as % of Group net fees 42% 40% 1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 30HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 31 Hays has been working with Bosch as arecruitment source across several disciplines for over a decade.
We appreciate the co-operation with Hays astheir consultants understand our requirements in numerous geographic regions and various business areas.
They act as trusted business partners, sourcing truSted buSineSS high-quality candidates for what are PArtnerS, SourCing HigHoften highly-skilled and niche roles.
SAbine HiLbrink-niLSSon QuALitY CAndidAteS for Corporate Sector, robert bosch wHAt Are often HigHLYbenelux SkiLLed And niCHe roLeS Hays works with a variety of established companies in the engineering and manufacturing sector and whether clients are looking to fill short-term contract positions or permanent roles, we have the global scale and expertise to help them.
Our recruiting experts act as intermediaries for highly skilled professionals searching for vacancies.
The expertise of Hays consultants increases the chances of successful placements within our valued clients.
Bosch is a global leading technology and 1 services company with a broad variety in germAnY growtH good: SignifiCAnt by 2%.
September 2013s election and customer and business solutions that has mArket imProvement And mAteriAL subsequent coalition negotiations have taken advantage of opportunities for a 7.7 miLLion Profit inCreASe in reSt created a degree of uncertainty regarding strong and meaningful development of tHe diviSion future regulations governing Temp and across the world.
As a first tier supplier of In Continental Europe & RoW, we delivered Contractor markets, which has impacted Bosch temporary staff in the Netherlands, good net fee growth of 7% 8% on a like-forrecruitment decision making in certain client 1 Hays has a productive 15 year business like basis to 305.0 million, driving segments.
However, the long-term structural relationship with the company and also fills excellent operating profit growth of 22% growth opportunity in Germany remains 1 Perm and Contracting roles for them, 20% on a like-for-like basis to 64.4 unchanged, and we are ideally positioned mainly within the engineering specialism.
The difference between actual tocontinue to benefit from the increasing Hays has also worked with Bosch in the growth and like-for-like growth rates in net demand for specialist recruitment services.
Netherlands on HR, Sales and Purchasing fees and operating profit was due to the Across the rest of the division, net fees placements and has additionally worked varying, often material fluctuations in the 1 wereup 8% with significant drop-through with the company in seven other countries rates of the various operating currencies into operating profit, up 7.7 million.
We around the world over the last 12 months, ofthe division versus sterling, notably the sawimproved market conditions overall including Australia and the UK.
appreciation of the Euro offset by the andmaterially improved our financial depreciation of the Brazilian Real and performance as a result of increased Canadian Dollar.
The conversion rate of the Within the division, 14 countries delivered productivity of our consultants as well as our 2 1 division increased to 21.1% 2013: 18.5% netfee growth of 10% or more while three continued focus on tight cost control.
France, 1 driven by good net fee growth and strong countries saw net fees decline in the year.
our second largest country in the division, drop-through of incremental net fees into delivered record annual net fees with growth Consultant headcount in the division operating profits, notably across several 1 of 5%, a good performance against the increased by 3% year-on-year.
In Germany, Continental European markets.
backdrop of a market which remained consultant headcount increased by 3%, and Germany, which represented 54% of the subdued throughout the year.
Elsewhere, was broadly flat through the second half.
divisions net fees, delivered good net fee 13other countries delivered record annual Weinvested in markets which demonstrated 1 growth of 8%.
We saw growth across netfee performances, including Switzerland, clear growth opportunities, many of which Contracting and Temp, which together grew Belgium, Russia and Poland.
showed sustained recovery after having been 1 1 by 7%, and Perm which grew by 10%.
We challenging for some time, such as Spain In Latin America, Chile, Colombia and Mexico saw strong growth in our newer specialisms, where consultant headcount was up 9%, all continued to perform well, although Brazil which now represent 27% of Germany net Benelux up 8% and the UAE up 29%.
remained tough and net fees were down fees, particularly Accountancy & Finance, 1 32%.
In North America, Canada delivered Legal and Sales & Marketing all of which 1 solid net fee growth of 5% and our business 1 grewby 20% or more.
Net fees in IT, which in the USA continued to perform well, represents 41% of Germany business, grew by 1 increasing net fees by 73%.
1 8% whilst net fees in Engineering increased 32HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 diviSionAL oPerAting review UK & IRELAND TEMPORARY 71% 00% 59% 41% 29% PERMANENT PUBLIC PRIvATE net feeS bY SPeCiALiSm net feeS bY region 1.
Other 19% 6 5 7 1 4 uk & ireLAnd 1 6 2 5 3 4 3 2 2014 HigHLigHtS Looking forwArd 1 Strong net fee growth of 11%, or 24 million, with excellent Focus on growing market share and capitalise on all 86% conversion of incremental net fees to profits opportunities for growth Operating profit materially increased by 20.6m, underpinned Remain focused on driving consultant productivity by productivity and efficiency gains Continue to optimise and leverage the efficiency of our UK Broad-based improvement in all regions and most specialisms frontand back office operations to help drive the profitability ofthe business 1 Public sector net fees increased by 16%, private sector 1 increased by 9% Expect to increase headcount in the first half of the year to continue to capitalise on the improvement in market conditions Consultant headcount up 12% year-on-year, mostly in second half to help support strong prospects seen in FY15 oPerAting PerformAnCe 1 YeAr ended 30 June 2014 2013 Actual growth LFL growth Net fees m 246.0 222.0 11% 11% Operating profit m 26.2 5.6 368% 368% 2 Conversion rate 10.7% 2.5% 3 Period-end consultant headcount 2,157 1,929 12% Division as % of Group net fees 34% 31% 1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 32HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 33 Strong, broAd-bASed growtH Our private sector business, which businesses all over the world face ACroSS ALL regionS And moSt represented 71% of the divisions net fees, similar challenges in sourcing the 1 SPeCiALiSmS: exCeLLent oPerAting delivered good net fee growth of 9% verybest talent with the skills and Profit LeverAge andour public sector business delivered experience to make a difference 1 The United Kingdom & Ireland delivered strong net fee growth of 16%, driven by totheircompany, and often those 1 strong net fee growth of 11% to 246.0 million particularly good performances in Education skillsare in short supply.
and generated material improvement of and Healthcare.
operating profit to 26.2 million 2013: At Hays we utilise our expertise in each The strong improvement in profitability 5.6 million.
Our Temp business delivered local market, underpinned by globally inthe UK & Ireland business was the result 1 good growth of 7%, whilst our Perm connected systems that we have ofmeaningful net fee growth of 11% and 1 business delivered strong growth of 16% developed over many years, to identify average consultant headcount growth of ascandidate confidence improved theskilled people our clients require.
only 7%, as we improved the productivity of through the year.
our consultants and also the positive impact Intertek is a multinational company listed Activity levels were strong and broad-based, of the range of cost reduction measures we on the FTSE 100 and employs 36,000 staff with all regions delivering net fee growth.
Interteks Group Head of Wesaw stand out performances from combined generated the excellent 86% Internal Audit contacted Hays to recruit for Scotland & Northern Ireland, Midlands, drop-through of incremental net fee growth positions in London.
The Hays consultant North West, East and South of England, into operating profits.
We believe our UK & targeted existing candidates on the Hays each of which grew by more than 10%.
In Ireland business is well-placed to take full database and approached suitable Ireland our business delivered excellent advantage of the current market opportunity, individuals from within their LinkedIn 1 net fee growth of 27%.
as well as any further market improvement.
Following successful placements Going forward we anticipate a drop-through inLondon, and demonstrating the benefits At the specialism level, Construction & of incremental net fee growth into operating of cross-border collaboration, Hays was 1 Property delivered excellent growth of 21%, profits of c. 60%.
subsequently asked by Intertek to provide 1 IT performed strongly and was up 15%, candidate analysis in Brazil, Singapore and while net fees in our largest specialism of Consultant headcount in the division was Hong Kong, whilst recruiting for further 1 Accountancy & Finance grew by 11%, within up12% year-on-year, primarily in the second internal audit positions in Shanghai which our Senior Finance business grew by half, as we invested with the aim of growing following business expansion.
Activity levels in our Banking business market share and taking full advantage of 1 remained more subdued, declining by 3%.
those market segments which present clear growth opportunities going forward.
tHe benefit of uSing A gLobAL AgenCY wAS SignifiCAnt Hays worked closely with us to draw out the unique characteristics of our audit department and the specific roles.
The consultant quickly put together a list of suitable candidates and networked with regional colleagues to do the same.
We were regularly updated throughout the process and I believe we have selected individuals who will be with us for the long term.
The benefit of using a global agency was significant and I was grateful for an introduction to Hays consultants inChina.
CAtHerine morgAn group Head of internal Audit intertek group plc
