20 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 2014 WAS A GOOD YEAR FOR INTERSERVE.
WE STRENGTHENED OUR BUSINESS BOTH ORGANICALLY AND THROUGH ACQUISITIONS AND EXPANDED OUR REACH IN A NUMBER OF UK AND INTERNATIONAL MARKETS.
ADRIAN RINGROSE Chief Executive OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 21 OVERVIEW SUPPORT SERVICES Interserve serves the needs of its broad client-base by Support Services focuses on the management and delivery of providing a range of integrated services in the outsourcing operational services to both public and private-sector clients in and construction markets.
Our success is founded on the skills the UK and internationally.
and ingenuity of our people, and so we invest extensively in the development and training of our 80,000 strong team to Results summary 2014 2013 Change ensure we continue to retain and attract the right people.
Revenue In this way we can apply our collective knowledge and UK 1,679.9m 1,196.6m 40% experience to meet our customers needs and develop 1 I nternational 157.2m 100.5m 56% lasting, long-term relationships.
Contribution to 88.8m 60.1m 48% 2014 was a good year for Interserve.
We strengthened our Total Operating Profit business both organically and through the acquisitions of UK 81.4m 56.0m 45% Initial Facilities March and esg December.
Overall we grew 1 I nternational 7.4m 4.1m 80% our headcount by more than 40 per cent and expanded our Operating margin UK 4.8% 4.7% reach in a number of UK and international markets.
2 Operating margin International 4.8% 4.4% We delivered organic headline earnings per share growth Future workload of 14 per cent in the face of mixed market conditions, UK 6.2bn 5.1bn 21% supported by targeted investment and a continued focus on 1 the factors that differentiate us as a business.
This growth International 0.3bn 0.2bn 74% was complemented by the performance of recently acquired 1 Including share of associates.
businesses which, in aggregate, boosted our total earnings per 2 Operating margin is calculated based on the underlying operating margin share growth to 23 per cent and delivered healthy returns on of associates and the reported operating margin of subsidiaries.
This strong performance, together with our record future workload up 26 per cent and confidence in our We delivered strong organic growth in the UK and continued medium-term prospects underpins the recommended increase the development of the business by acquiring Initial Facilities in dividend, which we have grown by a compound annual Initial, while our support services businesses in the growth rate of over five per cent over the last 10 years.
Middle East continued to perform well.
During the year we further expanded our reach in the delivery of front-line public Sustainability remains fundamental to the business.
Our services in the UK and broadened our offering in the Middle commitment to making positive contributions in natural, East facilities management market through the formation of social and knowledge capital as well as through conventional Interserve Rezayat, a joint venture in Saudi Arabia.
financial performance is an increasingly strong differentiator with clients, investors, our people and our supply chain.
During the year we made substantial progress against our ambitious sustainability targets and continued to invest in skills, research and events: positioning Interserve as both a thought leader and leading practitioner in this sphere.
We segment our results into four main areas - Support Services, Construction, Equipment Services and Investments - all of which are supported by central Group Services.
22 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED mobilise new contracts in the justice sector Our work-winning was strong during UK after we secured seven-year contracts the year 2.0 billion and we achieved We delivered strong operating profit worth 622 million in aggregate to provide a number of notable successes that growth, up 45 per cent to 81.4 million.
probation and rehabilitation services for reflect the diversity of our capabilities Our strong organic performance up low and medium-risk offenders in five areas including: The Docklands Light Railway 9 per cent was bolstered by the of England from February 2015 as part of DLR, Exterion Media, Southampton acquisition of Initial as we made further the Ministry of Justices MoJ Transforming NHS Trust and the Royal National strategic progress on a number of fronts Rehabilitation TR programme.
and built on a key aspect of our growth strategy: to broaden our offering in We remain one of the Ministry of Initials performance in 2014 was in line front-line services.
Defences MoD key delivery partners, with the Boards expectations.
The first having won a new five-year, 322 million wave of integration and re-branding In recent years we have built capability contract to manage its National Training of the business is complete, with the in healthcare, welfare-to-work and Estate NTE with the option to extend final phase due to complete in 2015.
Our welfare-to-work business, for a further five years.
Our defence anticipated, following the acquisition we which operates in multiple UK regions FM portfolio includes Welbeck Defence have been able to further develop our providing personalised support and Sixth Form College, the Defence portfolio of private-sector clients, for training, supported over 7,000 customers Communication Services Agency and instance in the transport sector where into employment during the year.
Our the Permanent Joint Overseas Bases we have developed and strengthened healthcare business, which provides care Falklands, Ascension, Cyprus, Gibraltar.
our presence through contract wins and in the home for high acuity patients, We were, though, unsuccessful in our bids extensions.
In the UK we now provide grew well, benefitting from increased for the Next Generation Estates Contracts cleaning at 16 major Network Rail investment and is well-placed to expand which, together with the more limited stations and recently agreed a two-year further during 2015.
Towards the end of scope of the new NTE contract will result extension of our contract for services the year we added to our welfare offering in a net reduction in the scale of our for London Underground.
We also won through the acquisition of The Employment defence business in the near term.
a new contract to deliver cleaning and and Skills Group esg.
We also started to CASE STUDY DLR CONTRACT ADDS TO TRANSPORT SECTOR GROWTH WE FURTHER STRENGTHENED OUR PRESENCE IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR BY WINNING A SEVEN-YEAR CONTRACT TO PROVIDE CLEANING AND SECURITY SERVICES FOR LONDONS DOCKLANDS LIGHT RAILWAY DLR ON BEHALF OF KEOLISAMEY DOCKLANDS.
The 32 million contract, which started in December 2014, covers seven routes and 45 depots and supports the 278,000 passengers that use the DLR every day.
Over 130 new staff transferred to Interserve to manage the 24 7 operation, which covers station and fleet cleaning, vegetation control, winterisation, depot security, events stewarding, security revenue protection and barrier control.
We were chosen by KeolisAmey Docklands to support the DLR due to our extensive experience in the transport sector.
This includes servicing underground, overground and high-speed rail networks in the UK and Spain, as well as supporting critical rail infrastructure through maintaining tracks, depots, stations and offices for various transport authorities.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 23 security services for the Docklands Light In Saudi Arabia we won contracts to International Railway.
We added to our significant manage services at the Information Internationally we provide a broad transport operations in Spain, covering Technology and Communications range of facilities management services the rail and aviation markets for clients Complex ITCC and King Abdullah in sectors such as hospitality, leisure, including Iberia, Alstom and Renfe, by Financial District in Riyadh.
We are also education, defence and retail and, winning a contract to provide cleaning, encouraged by the prospects for our through esg, the operation of further maintenance and assistance to passengers recently launched joint venture with education colleges in Saudi Arabia.
We with restricted mobility for Spanish the Rezayat Group Interserve Rezayat also offer maintenance, turnaround airport operator, Aena.
which will deliver facilities management services and training to the oil and gas services in Saudi Arabia.
The addition sector in the United Arab Emirates Our enlarged UK Support Services of esg to the Group also creates a UAE, Qatar and Oman.
business now has a broader customer platform to extend front-line services proposition and the ability to crossA mix of contract wins with new and into Saudi Arabia, where we operate sell more services to existing clients, existing customers, particularly those in three further education colleges under growing single-service contracts into the oil and gas, defence and education the Colleges of Excellence programme, multi-service Facilities Management sectors, delivered very strong organic which complements our existing safety FM packages.
Examples of this include operating profit growth of 37 per cent and management skills training activities winning a 35 million contract extension which, together with the full-year impact in Qatar and Oman.
with B&Q to provide services across of businesses acquired during 2013, its entire 361-store estate, up from With our new businesses, TOCO and resulted in overall growth in operating 182 stores.
We also grew the scope and Adyard each acquired during 2013 in profit of 80 per cent to 7.4 million.
size of FM contracts with Alliance Boots Oman and the UAE, respectively joining and Southwark Council and added to Highlights during the year included our longstanding Madina operations winning a new three-year contract to contracts with Co-op Midlands, CBRE based in Qatar, we have developed and Deutsche Bank.
provide Qatar Shell GTL with a range greater reach and capability across the of mechanical services and a five-year oil and gas services sector in the Gulf As a consequence of the developments facilities management contract with region, opening up access to a wider pool outlined above, our revenue is now ExxonMobil in Qatar.
We also secured a of customers and pan-regional, as well split evenly between the public and three-year extension to our longstanding as national, opportunities.
logistics and oilfield services contract Adyard delivered strong work winning and with Occidental Petroleum in Oman.
started 2015 with record order books.
Key We successfully mobilised our five-year Other contract wins included two new wins included contracts with ZADCO, facilities management contract with mechanical services contracts with NABORS, GASCO, Hyundai Engineering the BBC.
This involves the management the UAE military, consultancy work for & Construction Co. Asia Gulf Power and delivery of services at over Dubais Roads and Transport authority Service, TAPCO, Gulf Petrochemical 150 locations across the UK including and FM contracts for several schools and Services and Enerflex.
New Broadcasting House in London and colleges in Qatar.
MediaCityUK in Salford, where we are responsible for services ranging from critical broadcast engineering to business continuity planning.
INCREASE IN GROUP HEADLINE TOTAL We have also expanded our capability OPERATING PROFIT OF 35 PER CENT TO to serve several of our pan-European clients.
Our contract with the Foreign & Commonwealth Office FCO was expanded and extended by two years - to deliver support services in France, in 1 17.
2 MILLION addition to the FM services we already provide to the FCOs UK estate and to 14 diplomatic missions across Europe.
Our reach was further developed through our appointment by Sony Europe to support their business in 27 countries, providing services at 40 locations.
24 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Glasgow, Peterborough, Rotherham and East Lothian signed in CONSTRUCTION early 2015 together with a number of other opportunities in this We offer design, development, consultancy and construction growing sector.
services to create whole-life, sustainable solutions for building and infrastructure projects.
Our focus is on forming longMuch of our work for the public sector is channelled term relationships and delivering repeat business through through framework agreements in the health and education commercial structures such as framework agreements and sectors, which provide a strong foundation and good visibility project-financed schemes.
Our presence in the Middle East is structured through In education, we were confirmed as preferred bidder in the longstanding joint-venture partnerships, enabling us to Priority School Building Programme to develop seven secondary form enduring relationships with clients and to combine our schools across Hertfordshire, Luton and Reading.
We also won international experience with our partners local knowledge contracts to build facilities for the universities in Birmingham, to deliver outstanding service.
These projects extend our track record in this sector where we have now completed the Results summary 2014 2013 Change construction of over 50 educational facilities.
Revenue We won significant work in the health sector during the year, UK 970.7m 802.2m 21% including contracts to design and build a high-energy proton 1 International 207.9m 215.9m -4% beam cancer therapy facility for the Christie NHS Foundation Contribution to 26.2m 27.8m -6% Trust in Manchester and a centre of excellence for the Scottish Total Operating Profit National Blood Transfusion Service in Edinburgh.
UK 15.4m 14.7m 5% During the year we were awarded a place on the Highways 1 International 10.8m 13.1m -18% Agencys four-year, 5 billion collaborative delivery framework Operating margin UK 1.6% 1.8% schemes valued between 25 million and 50 million, which 2 Operating margin International 4.7% 5.1% will provide us with opportunities on a large programme of Future workload infrastructure investment over the coming years.
UK 1.4bn 1.0bn 39% Our credentials in building advanced production testing 1 International 0.3bn 0.2bn 37% facilities were reinforced through a number of new awards, such as for a research and assembly plant Factory 2050 at 1 Share of associates.
the University of Sheffields Advanced Manufacturing Research 2 Operating margin is calculated based on the underlying operating margin Centre.
This was further reinforced by the award of a contract of associates.
to build an advanced experimental station and electron UK microscopy facility at Diamond Light Source in Oxfordshire.
Against a backdrop of improving demand but also of increasing Combining our project finance and construction skills, we secured supply chain pressures, we performed well, growing revenue two further major city development schemes featuring a range 21 per cent to 970.7 million.
This growth was boosted by a of retail and leisure clients: a project to develop and build a strong performance from Paragon, the London-based specialist 150-room Premier Inn hotel in central Edinburgh and the fit-out and refurbishment business we acquired in 2013, and by development of a mixed-use project on the site of the our growing Energy from Waste EfW activities.
It also reflects former Co-op building in Newcastle city centre.
a robust performance from our traditional regional building activities.
Operating profit rose to 15.4 million at a margin of Paragon continues to thrive, benefitting from both a buoyant 1.6 per cent.
London office fit-out market, and from the additional client base and balance sheet strength provided by the Group since Future workload grew 39 per cent to 1.4 billion FY 2013: acquisition.
Since becoming part of Interserve, Paragon has won 1.0 billion, benefitting from our successful targeting of a more than 160 million of new work, including contracts to fit mixture of new and existing frameworks, and from selective out three floors of Markel Insurances Fenchurch Street offices opportunities in the private sector.
and BMWs UK headquarters in Farnborough.
We made further progress in the EfW market, entering in joint In July we were delighted to be named Contractor of the Year venture with Shanks Group plc into an agreement with Derby by industry journal Construction News, highlighting our leading City and Derbyshire County Councils to build and operate a new position within the UK construction market and the excellent waste treatment facility in the city under a 27-year, 950 million teamwork demonstrated by our people.
Public Private Partnership PPP contract.
This contract adds to a pipeline of EfW projects that we already have underway in OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 25 OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED CASE STUDY BUILDING ADVANCED MEDICAL AND TESTING FACILITIES therapy facility for the Christie NHS Foundation Trust in INTERSERVES ABILITY TO DESIGN, BUILD AND DELIVER Manchester.
Full Level 2 Building Information Modelling ADVANCED MEDICAL AND PRODUCTION TESTING BIM is being used throughout the design process on the FACILITIES WAS FURTHER REINFORCED DURING THE YEAR facility, which will offer a specialist form of radiotherapy THROUGH A NUMBER OF SIGNIFICANT CONTRACT WINS.
to very precisely target certain cancers when it becomes We won a contract to build a next generation aerospace operational in 2018. factory at the University of Sheffields Advanced Other awards included contracts to build an advanced Manufacturing Research Centre known as Factory 2050 experimental station and electron microscopy facility at which will be the UKs first fully reconfigurable assembly Diamond Light Source on the Harwell Oxford Campus.
In and component research factory.
addition, we are also building a new testing and processing We were also awarded a contract to design, construct facility for the Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service.
and co-ordinate a high-energy proton beam cancer 26 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED CASE STUDY BUILDING QATARS BIGGEST MALL AT DOHA FESTIVAL CITY OUR ASSOCIATE CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS IN QATAR, GULF CONTRACTING COMPANY GCC, WAS AWARDED A 325 MILLION CONTRACT IN JOINT VENTURE WITH ALEC QATAR TO DELIVER THE MAIN WORKS FOR DOHA FESTIVAL CITY, THE COUNTRYS LARGEST EVER MIXED-USE RETAIL AND LEISURE DEVELOPMENT.
Set to open in September 2016, Doha Festival City Phase 1 of the 430,000 square metre Doha Festival City will feature a 250,000 square metre mall housing over development saw the opening of Qatars first Ikea store.
550 stores, 85 restaurants and cafes, car showrooms, Phase 2 comprises the enabling works to basement and a hotel and convention centre.
It will also include ground floor levels, and Phases 3, 4 and 5, the remaining state-of-the-art cinemas, a snow park and an mall construction and finishing work.
The joint venture was previously awarded the mall's substructure works contract for the construction of basement and ground floor levels.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 27 OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED International EQUIPMENT SERVICES International Construction performed as expected in Equipment Services operates globally, designing, hiring challenging, albeit slowly improving markets, in which and selling formwork and falsework solutions for use in competition remains high.
Volumes increased slightly on infrastructure and building projects.
Our activities have a broad a constant currency basis up 1 per cent and strong work geographic spread, the mix of which can change quickly, hence winning led to growth in the order book of 37 per cent at the we manage our equipment fleet globally, thereby combining year end compared to the end of 2013. our scale and expertise with agility and responsiveness to meet customers needs.
Key contract wins in the UAE included work with Halliburton, DP World, the UAE Roads and Transport Authority, Meraas and Results summary 2014 2013 Change the RIVA Group.
We completed work on The Beach retail and Revenue 195.5m 169.6m 15% entertainment village and started work on the 110 million Contribution to 26.6m 20.1m 32% redevelopment, expansion and upgrade of the Mall of the Total Operating Profit Emirates, on behalf of longstanding client, Majid Al Futtaim.
Operating margin 13.6% 11.9% In Qatar we were awarded a 323 million contract, in joint Performance in the period was strong, increasing profit by venture, to build Doha Festival City, which will be Qatar's largest 32 per cent to 26.6 million FY 2013: 20.1 million with retail and entertainment development.
We also won work on the operating margins gaining 170 basis points as this  Heart of Doha redevelopment and a project to build a geared business benefitted from increased activity in global central energy plant at Education City for the Qatar Foundation.
infrastructure markets and from the significant investment we have made over the last two years to facilitate growth.
In Oman, contract wins included the civil engineering works for the expansion of the Sohar refinery for Petrofac Daelim and an We further extended our reach during the year, opening new extension to the Muscat City Centre mall for Majid Al Futtaim.
branches in South Africa Cape Town and Nelspruit, the United We further developed our power and water portfolio by winning States San Leandro, California and Panama Panama City but the civil engineering works to a seawater reverse osmosis plant also downsized in weaker markets, such as Australia, relocating in Barka for Osmoflo.
our fleet to exploit opportunities and keeping our cost base responsive to demand fluctuations.
CASE STUDY GROWING OUR ENERGY FROM WASTE OPERATIONS WE CONTINUED TO GROW OUR ENERGY FROM WASTE EFW ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR BY ENTERING AN AGREEMENT WITH DERBY CITY AND DERBYSHIRE COUNTY COUNCILS TO BUILD A NEW WASTE TREATMENT FACILITY IN THE CITY UNDER A 27-YEAR, 950 MILLION PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP PPP CONTRACT.
This electricity will be supplied to the Construction of the 145 million Mechanical Biological Treatment national grid, offsetting the cost of facility and on-site gasification plant the waste treatment to the Councils.
in Sinfin, South Derby is underway The contract will make a significant and is expected to be complete by contribution to the local economy: April 2017.
The contract adds to a pipeline approximately 250 people will be of EfW projects that we already The new facility will divert up to recruited to work on construction have underway in Peterborough, 98 per cent of residents residual and a further 34 permanent positions Rotherham, Glasgow and East Lothian.
waste from landfill, while also will be created once the facilities generating enough green electricity are operational.
28 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Middle East and Africa Americas We continue to see strong growth in the Middle East, benefitting We operate in the USA, Colombia, Panama, Chile and export from increased demand in the UAE, with business confidence into Peru.
The recovery in the US construction market has been growing in Dubai and ongoing work on large projects including somewhat slower than anticipated and government investment the Midfield Terminal project at Abu Dhabi airport.
We are well remains sluggish.
However, our expansion in California is now positioned to take advantage of opportunities in Qatar as new bearing fruit, with ongoing work on a number of sizeable large-scale infrastructure projects gear up, while Oman has also commercial developments in the Bay Area and downtown San seen a significant increase in demand, boosted by projects such Francisco.
We continued our expansion in Latin America, by as the Nizwa Mosque, which was completed during the period.
developing and investing in our businesses in Colombia and After very strong levels of demand in 2013 our activity in Saudi Panama.
Performance in Chile was subdued due in large part Arabia continued to grow, boosted by significant new contract to low copper prices suppressing general economic activity.
wins, including work to supply a new transportation complex INVESTMENTS being built in Mecca and early wins on major projects such as the King Abdullah Financial District and Riyadh metro.
Investments leads the Groups project-investment activities and manages our equity investments both in Public Private Asia-Pacific Partnership PPP and private-sector projects.
Demand continued to weaken gradually in Australia, reflecting more subdued economic conditions emerging in the last 12 to 2014 2013 18 months and the completion of a number of major energy Contribution to Total Operating Profit 0.8m 0.8m and mining projects in Western Australia.
Interest received on subordinated 0.8m 0.6m debt investments Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region demand grew, with Hong Kong particularly buoyant due to a series of significant transport Total 1.6m 1.4m infrastructure projects including the Macau Bridge and West Exceptional profit from PFI disposals nil 3.6m Kowloon Rail Terminus.
We traded strongly in New Zealand through a broad base of projects across both the North and South islands.
We also performed well in the Philippines, in both Our strategy includes combining our investment, development and project management skills to finance and deliver projects the commercial and power sectors, helped by new contracts including the Davao power plant: a project that should stand us over many years.
In recent years we have extended this from our core PFI activities into selective private-sector commercial in good stead to benefit from further investment in the sector.
developments and now have an aggregate portfolio invested Europe and committed of 47 million.
We performed very well in the UK, benefitting from our role Having achieved a number of financing and planning milestones, in the development of a leisure and entertainment complex we started work in February 2014 on the Haymarket being built near Birmingham and from work on sizeable rail development in central Edinburgh, which will become one of improvement projects in Reading and on the Stockley Viaduct the citys largest mixed-use commercial developments.
During project near Heathrow airport.
Other notable contract wins the year we also invested in projects to redevelop the Alder Hey include work on Scotlands new Forth Bridge and the bridge Childrens Hospital and a centre of excellence for the Scottish deck to support the Friargate development in Coventry, while National Blood Transfusion Service in Edinburgh.
our Ascent-s Safety Screen was used on a number of new highrise developments.
We were appointed preferred bidder to finance, design, build and provide FM services for seven secondary schools across The market remained slow across much of mainland Europe.
Hertfordshire, Luton and Reading, the first batch to be procured We took further action on our cost base in Ireland and Spain under the Priority School Building Programme, part of the reflecting persistent weakness in domestic demand, but also governments PF2 initiative.
made further progress in developing export opportunities, in particular to other Spanish-speaking markets, such as Panama Our presence in Yorkshire has grown significantly in recent and Colombia.
years and during the year we completed work on the last of three major developments for West Yorkshire Police to provide a modern working environment for over 1,000 police officers and civilian staff, built to the highest energy and sustainability standards.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 29 OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED GROUP SERVICES All central costs, including those related to our financing and CASE STUDY central bidding activities, are disclosed within the Group Services segment.
PARAGON FITS OUT Group Services costs in 2014 were 25.2 million FY 2013: 22.1 million, accommodating an increased investment in MARKELS WALKIE back-office capabilities, IT infrastructure, people development and communications.
TALKIE LONDON OFFICE We anticipate this increased level of investment will continue in the medium term, as we ensure that we continue to scale our support and assurance functions appropriately with the growth of our operational businesses.
OUTLOOK Against a backdrop of uncertainty in many of our markets, we remain confident in our strategy of managing and diversifying risk and focussing our resources on markets with strong long-term growth drivers.
Our attractive positioning in our core markets and our ability to identify, invest in and deliver on attractive project and corporate opportunities is a powerful differentiator.
We expect our Support Services business to make further progress as we continue to win new work and extend relationships with existing clients.
Our increased private-sector exposure should act as a counterweight to any temporary hiatus OUR INTERIOR FIT-OUT BUSINESS, PARAGON, in further government outsourcing, which we expect to resume and accelerate after the UK General Election, with particular COMPLETED THE OFFICE REFURBISHMENT FOR emphasis on front-line public services.
We believe that the INSURANCE FIRM MARKEL AT THE WALKIE TALKIE spread of our activities in the Middle East support services BUILDING, THE NEWEST COMMERCIAL SKY SCRAPER market will mitigate against the potential impact of continued IN LONDONS FINANCIAL DISTRICT.
weakness in the oil price during 2015.
The project, which spans three floors of the 34-storey, In Construction we expect to see further volume growth in 525-feet tall building, included fitting out open-plan the UK in 2015, much of which is visible in our future workload, offices, flexible meeting spaces, two commercial kitchens, although margins will likely remain close to current levels.
In the Middle East we expect to make volume progress as we a 15,000 square foot staff canteen and a reception area.
deliver contracted orders and continue to pursue opportunities Paragon also created a boardroom, an executive suite across various sectors.
including several offices, private dining rooms as well We expect Equipment Services to continue to grow in as a range of executive video conferencing rooms.
A expanding global construction markets and to benefit from number of breakout spaces and business lounges were further operational gearing.
also created over the three floors, which are linked by a new feature staircase.
While optimistic, we continue to manage the business prudently to ensure it remains resilient against future economic cycles.
Due to the complexity of transporting a large amount of equipment and delicate furnishings and fittings up 25 floors, Paragon worked closely with specialist subcontractors to prefabricate and preassemble as much of the project as possible.
The project, which lasted 34 weeks, was handed over in December 2014.
