STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 33 Financial Review continued NET FINANCING COSTS DIVIDEND ORGANIC INVESTMENT NET DEBT The Group had an adjusted net financing cost of 24m 2013: The Board recommends a full year dividend of 49.1p per share, The Group also invested 110m 2013: 145m organically Net debt has increased from 618m at 31 December 2013 28m in the year.
This comprised 2m 2013: 2m of finance an increase of 6.7%.
This recommendation reflects the Groups on the latest technology in new laboratories, capital equipment to 634m at 31 December 2014 principally as a result of cash income and 26m 2013: 30m of finance expense.
The total significant growth prospects, strong financial position and the and other facilities.
This investment represented 5.2% of repayments of borrowings offset by adverse exchange impacts.
interest charge included 0.2m 2013: 0.5m related to Boards confidence in the Groups structural growth drivers into revenue 2013: 6.6% which was a decrease on the prior year In the year, the Group drew on facilities it had in place at Separately Disclosed Items.
in part due to the completion of IT platform investments in 31 December 2013, including two bilateral term loan facilities.
Key investments included laboratories in China & the SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS SDIs The full year dividend of 49.1p represents a total cost of In addition, it issued US$110m of senior notes in July 2014 US Transportation Technologies, Sweden Electrical & A number of items are separately disclosed in the financial 78.8m or 37% of adjusted profit attributable to shareholders which were drawn in four tranches in the second half of the Wireless, UAE and Australia Cargo and Minerals and statements as exclusion of these items provides readers with of the Group for 2014 2013: 74.2m and 33%.
The Group has a well balanced loan portfolio with a Bangladesh and Thailand Textiles.
a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating is covered 2.7 times by earnings 2013: 3.0 times, based maturity profile as shown below, to enable the funding performance of the Groups business.
on adjusted diluted earnings per share divided by dividend CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT of future growth opportunities.
The Group relies on a combination of debt and internal cash When applicable, these SDIs include amortisation of acquisition Borrowings by maturity profile resources to fund its investment plans.
One of the key metrics intangibles, impairment of goodwill and other assets, the profit KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS for measuring the ability of the business to generate cash is Less than two years or loss on disposals of businesses or other significant fixed The Group uses a variety of key performance indicators KPIs cash flow from operations.
Due to the cash payments Two to five years 50% 23% assets, costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions, the cost to monitor the financial performance of the Group and Over five years associated with the SDIs, and to provide a complete picture of of any fundamental restructuring of a business, material claims operating divisions.
These metrics are disclosed on page 10. the underlying performance of the Group, adjusted cash flow and settlements, significant recycling of amounts from equity The rate of return on invested capital ROIC measures from operations is shown below to illustrate the cash generated to the income statement and unrealised market gains losses the efficiency of Group investments.
This is a key measure by the Group: 27% on financial assets liabilities.
to assess the efficiency of investment decisions and is also an 2014 2013 Change important criteria in the decision making process when projects 2014 2013 m m % SDIs m m are competing for limited funds.
On a proforma basis including annualised Operating costs: Add back: cashflow relating results for acquisitions ROIC would also be 16%.
Adjusting Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 20.8 22.5 to SDIs 16.9 15.5 for movements in foreign exchange, ROIC would be 18%.
Acquisition costs 3.5 1.5 Adjusted cash flow from Under existing facilities the Group has available debt headroom Restructuring costs 23.5 8.8 ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENT operations 403.7 394.1 2% of 391m at 31 December 2014.
The components of net debt Gain on disposal of investments 0.2 The Groups strategy is to invest both organically and by at 31 December 2014 are outlined below: Total operating costs 47.8 32.6 acquiring complementary businesses, enabling it to take The components of free cash flow are summarised below: advantage of the strong long-term structural growth drivers in 1 January Exchange 31 December 2014 Cashflow adjustments 2014 In 2014, the amortisation of acquisition intangibles was 21m 2014 2013 the quality industry and continually offer the latest technologies m m m m Free cash flow m m 2013: 23m.
This reduction is a result of certain intangibles and services in the locations demanded by clients.
Cash 116.4 2.9 0.2 119.5 Adjusted operating profit 324.4 342.6 becoming fully amortised in the year: most notably from the ACQUISITIONS Borrowings 734.6 27.5 45.9 753.0 Add back: depreciation and Moody International acquisition made in 2011.
Acquisition The Group made three acquisitions in the year, with a purchase amortisation 76.3 70.9 Total net debt 618.2 30.4 45.7 633.5 costs of 3.5m 2013: 1.5m relate to costs in active, successful price of 43.1m net of cash acquired, 40.2m.
Further details on restructuring are Movement in working capital and To ensure the Group is not exposed to income statement provided at the end of this review.
provisions 5.0 30.9 In February 2014, the Group acquired INSPEC for 39.8m volatility in relation to foreign currency translation on its debt, Net capital expenditure 108.5 140.2 37.1m net of cash acquired, a non-destructive testing TAX the Group ensures that any foreign currency borrowings are Other 102.4 111.8 company, supporting the oil and gas sector, based in UAE The Group effective tax rate on adjusted profit before income matched to the value of its overseas assets in that currency and Oman.
The global nature of the Group an effective hedge.
Other includes exceptionals, interest paid received, tax and non-cash items.
means that the Groups exposure to income tax needs to be In October 2014, the Group acquired the food testing The Group borrows primarily in US dollars and any currency managed across a large number of fiscal regimes.
The Groups laboratory and business from QPS Bioserve India PVT.
Five year trend adjusted cash flow from operations m translation exposures on the borrowings are offset by the goal is to efficiently manage its tax affairs whilst fulfilling its Ltd QPS, and in November 2014, acquired ScanBi currency translation on the US dollar overseas assets of the responsibilities to the countries in which it operates.
The statutory Diagnostics ScanBi, a Swedish based agriculture and food 2014 403.7 Group.
The composition of the Groups gross borrowings tax charge, including the impact of SDIs, of 62m 2013: 65m, analytics company with subsidiaries in Sweden and Canada, 10% in 2014, analysed by currency is as follows: equates to an effective rate of 24.5% 2013: 23.0% and the for a combined purchase price of 3.3m 3.1m net of 2013 394.1 cash tax on adjusted results is 22.5% 2013: 25.7%.
Borrowings by currency 2012 345.4 EARNINGS PER SHARE These acquisitions provide valuable additional service lines and USD 1% The Group delivered adjusted diluted earnings per share new geographic locations for the Group, and will help drive 2011 314.8 GBP 4% EPS of 132.1p 2013: 138.6p.
Diluted EPS after SDIs profitable revenue growth.
The more significant acquisition, Other was 108.8p 2013: 123.0p per share, and basic EPS INSPEC, is in the strategically important area of non-destructive 2010 276.7 95% was 109.5p 2013: 124.4p.
testing, where the Group sees good growth opportunities for expansion beyond the capital investment cycle.
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 35 Sustainability and CSR Financial Review continued FOREIGN CURRENCY MOVEMENTS The Industry & Assurance divisions restructure was largely The Group transacts in over 80 currencies, and revenue and focused on Europe, with the exiting of low value contracts O ur employees are helping profit are impacted by currency fluctuations.
However, the combined with the drive for operational shared service centres companies around the world diversification of the Groups revenue base provides a partial enabling smaller operations to be streamlined.
Commodities restructuring focused on the global Minerals to develop products that are At constant exchange rates, revenue grew 2.3% actual business, following further depressed commodities prices, used safely by millions of exchange rates decline of 4.2% and adjusted operating profit as well as Cargo in the US and Europe.
grew 1.2% actual exchange rates decline of 5.3%.
Consumer Goods and Commercial & Electrical divisions people every day.
The exchange rates used to translate the statement of financial restructured activity in China, the Middle East, Americas position and the income statement into sterling for the five and Europe.
most material currencies are shown below: Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals restructuring focused on Europe, as sections of our customer base have restructured and or Statement of financial Income position rates statement rates moved away from the region.
Value of 1 2014 2013 2014 2013 IMPAIRMENT WOLFHART HAUSER US dollar 1.55 1.65 1.65 1.56 The annual testing for impairment of non-current assets of Chief Executive Officer Euro 1.28 1.20 1.24 1.18 the Groups cash generating units CGUs was completed Chinese renminbi 9.65 10.06 10.15 9.68 with no resulting requirement for impairment.
Details of Hong Kong dollar 12.04 12.78 12.80 12.12 the sensitivity testing performed are set out in note 9 to the show a reduction in our CO e emissions per employee over 2 Australian dollar 1.91 1.86 1.83 1.62 financial statements.
At the heart of our corporate mission the previous year.
The Groups improved disclosure score in SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES and values lies our commitment to our the Carbon Disclosure Project is a further validation of our RESTRUCTURING The consolidated financial statements are prepared in improved data collection, details of which are on page 39.
The Group has undertaken a comprehensive review of its customers, people, communities, accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Details of portfolio to identify businesses, locations and services which I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees the Groups significant accounting policies are shown environment and investors.
The actions that for their continued hard work in helping Intertek achieve this in note 1 to the financial statements.
have been undertaken as a result of this include closing We help our clients to ensure the quality and safety of their great progress towards our sustainability targets.
businesses, writing down assets and making redundancies, products, assets and processes: to protect their brands and and have resulted in an additional 23.5m in restructuring enable their success in the global marketplace.
Our employees are helping companies around the world This further restructuring will address weakness in certain to develop products that are used safely by millions of people businesses within the Commodities and Chemicals & every day and in all our communications with employees, Pharmaceuticals divisions, as well as the effects of the lower oil we emphasise the value of the work they are doing for EDWARD LEIGH prices impacting demand in Industry Services.
In addition, the business, people and the planet as a whole.
WOLFHART HAUSER Chief Financial Officer restructuring is addressing cost improvement opportunities that Our people have a wide range of skills but share common Chief Executive Officer have been identified across the wider Group.
Initiatives taken values of integrity, honesty and respect for others.
This is include consolidating regional administrative sites for process demonstrated by the many charitable and community activities and operational efficiency: closing underperforming businesses: our colleagues engage in just a few examples of which are and reducing overheads.
Geographically, Europe and the highlighted in this report.
Americas continued to be a focus within our restructuring programme accounting for just over 50% and 25% of the We now employ more than 38,000 people around the world For more detail current year expenditure respectively.
None of the disposals an increase of 4% over the previous year.
We take the safety or closures were classified as discontinued activities.
of our employees and all those affected by our operations very 36 Our business seriously and are constantly improving the way we monitor our How we are making a positive contribution to The costs in 2014 by division were as follows: health and safety performance and the management of H&S the planet through our work for clients.
While I am pleased to report a reduction Spend Restructuring m 37 Our people in lost time injuries compared with 2013, we remain focused Our commitment to the welfare and development Industry & Assurance 3.9 on educating our people in this area, with a view to achieving of our people.
Commodities 7.0 our goal of zero lost time injuries.
Consumer Goods 1.2 Throughout this report, you can read how our services are 39 O ur environment Commercial & Electrical 3.0 helping customers to manage their operations and produce Taking responsibility for our impact on the environment.
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 5.0 products and services in a sustainable and ethical manner.
In 40 O ur communities Central and support functions 3.4 our own operations, we continue to improve our processes for Giving back to the communities touched by our business.
Total 23.5 collecting and monitoring our emissions data which for 2014, While plans were made and notified during 2014, the timing of these actions depends on each business putting in place plans to ensure that customer service is not detrimentally impacted, as well as addressing the consultation process that is required in a number of jurisdictions in which we operate.
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 37 Sustainability and CSR continued IMPROVING NUTRITION FOR PEOPLE WORLDWIDE Our goal is to ensure that all potential leaders of Intertek are Our business Our people The Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition GAIN was provided with appropriate people skills to grow our business, Intertek helps many of the worlds largest multinational More than 20,400 employees responded to our 2013 global launched in 2002 to focus on finding and delivering solutions hire and retain the best people and provide career growth corporations and best-known brands to improve the social, employee survey and their feedback indicated that overall for the complex problem of malnutrition.
Through food for future leadership positions.
Our talent mapping process ethical and environmental impact of their products, services engagement had increased by 2% on the previous year.
fortification and other strategies, GAIN delivers affordable is critical to the future success of our organisation to meet and supply chains.
During 2014 we continued to focus on the three main areas nutritious foods to 811 million people in more than 40 countries business strategy growth needs.
that our people felt most strongly about: clarity of our strategy, and aims to reach 1 billion people by 2015.
The GAIN Premix In March 2014, Intertek held the 14th Ethical Sourcing Forum The Intertek Executive Academy, which was established in social and environmental responsibility, and performance Facility GPF, founded in 2009, helps food fortification for leading organisations to address emerging supply chain 2012 to develop our next generation of global leadership for management and reward.
Our sector business line leaders projects to access a more cost-effective way of procuring high trends and challenges.
The ES Forum, themed 20 Years of CSR our future business growth, has to date seen 71 participants have been provided with toolkits to help them communicate quality vitamin and mineral premix.
Transparency: Then and Now, focused on how social media is develop their careers.
More than half of those have and embed their local strategy.
Our management teams have transforming the face of corporate social responsibility as Intertek has been a key partner with GAIN since the launch subsequently moved into more senior leadership positions.
analysed their local feedback to identify specific areas for citizens worldwide have unprecedented access to information of GPF, auditing potential blenders and suppliers and checking improvement in their countries.
This has led to a number of Further progress was also made during the year with country on the behaviour of corporations.
that they meet minimum standards.
To ensure the premix new employee initiatives including focus groups, improved level schemes such as: contains the correct level of micronutrients to be of benefit SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES THROUGH OUR WORK workplace environmental practices, mentoring and community to peoples health and to maintain quality throughout the The launch of our UK Management Development Programme.
In Hong Kong, Intertek has been sponsoring the leading fashion projects, and sports, social and recreation clubs.
In the UK, supply chain, Intertek also assists with analytical services and The 10-month course has so far welcomed 69 participants brand Kate Spade & Company, on a programme that supports we are piloting a network of Corporate Social Responsibility checks samples from every order a customer places with the with the first cohort due to complete the Programme in a group of more than 150 artisans in Masoro, Rwanda, whose Champions to coordinate our environmental and charitable GPF.
Globally, premix sourced by the GPF in partnership with March 2015. skills have become the foundation of a new business that is activities in the region.
Intertek has helped to improve the health of 150 million people In Hong Kong, around 100 managers and supervisors are reshaping the communitys quality of life.
Interteks Centre ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT over the past year.
currently taking part in a three-year programme to develop of New Technology is providing its expert testing services Our aim is to attract, select, and promote the best available our future talent pool in the country and several workshops to support this programme, on a pro bono basis, to help HELPING BUSINESSES TO REDUCE THEIR FOOTPRINT people who engage in and share the mission and values of have been held during the year on subjects such as project these artisans build a trusted, successful brand.
Intertek works with a number of organisations to analyse the Intertek.
Prospective employees are sourced through a variety management and consultative marketing.
environmental impact of their products and services.
In 2014, In 2014 Intertek was awarded a contract with the Portland of channels, depending on the location and role, in compliance In China, we have training programmes to develop our people we completed a project for a German chemical company which Development Commission PDC, in Oregon, USA, to perform with local regulations for fair recruitment practices and equal at all levels, including our Induction Camp, Knowledge Centre, supplies glycerin an ingredient used in many personal care testing and certification for clean technology products.
Jobs at Intertek are advertised via our website and long-term senior leadership development programmes products in bulk containers.
These containers are usually PDC and the City of Portland were awarded federal funding intertek.
com careers, recruitment agencies, social media, with international business schools.
Intertek has been voted as thrown away after one use but the company introduced to assist in the integration of clean technology as part of an print advertisements, professional bodies and associations, one of the 100 Best HRM companies in China in the annual a return and refill system.
Interteks analysis revealed that this initiative to accelerate innovation and production, and thereby and schools, colleges and universities.
Where possible, we fill HRM survey initiated by 51Job.
com for a seventh year running.
reduces their packaging by 86% and achieves a 68% reduction stimulate job growth in the region.
Intertek will be the sole vacancies from within the Company first, in order to offer in their carbon footprint.
This independent verification of the In 2014, Intertek offered over 1,300 online training courses to testing provider for local manufacturers of products relating people career growth and progress within the Group.
Intertek benefits encouraged the companys customers and others 26,000 employees in 68 different countries.
Of these, 400 were to clean technologies such as batteries, electric vehicles, is an Equal Opportunities Employer and all qualified applicants in its supply chain to accept this innovation.
developed through collaboration with internal subject-matter lighting, green buildings, energy efficiency and solar power.
are considered for employment regardless of race, colour, experts across the various Intertek businesses.
During the year religion, physical ability, gender or national origin.
We are currently working with a leading manufacturer PROTECTING CITIZENS AGAINST COUNTERFEIT GOODS over 130,000 online courses were completed by 17,000 of PET plastic polyethylene terephthalate to analyse the Intertek is a member of The Certification Industry Against INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY employees and since implementation, over 340,000 courses carbon footprint of its new production plant in Belgium.
Counterfeiting CIAC, an international network of certification Interteks employment policies and practices operate within have been completed.
Intertek measures the electricity and gas the new factory takes organisations committed to stopping the worldwide a framework which reflects a culture of merit where decisions to produce one tonne of PET, the quantities of raw materials PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT proliferation of products bearing counterfeit certification marks are based on the individuals ability to perform in relation to the required and the emissions and wastes that result.
This is then One of our primary business objectives is to help our customers that may endanger public health and safety.
As part of CIAC, needs of the business.
These policies complement and conform compared to existing data from the top PET producers in meet quality standards for virtually any market in the world and Intertek actively participates in Operation Overshock, a strategic to local and national laws, regulations and codes of practice.
Europe, enabling us to verify that the new factory achieves a protect them against risk by ensuring compliance with local, and coordinated effort between INTERPOL and its certification We act to apply all employment policies and practices, including lower carbon footprint per tonne of PET than existing factories, national and international laws.
The accuracy and validity of industry partners, to detect and dismantle transnational and recruitment, promotion, reward, working conditions and due to its new design efficiencies.
reports and certificates that we provide to our customers and organised counterfeiting networks.
performance management related policies, in a way that is maintaining the trust and confidence of our customers, their informed, fair and objective.
As such, our inclusion and diversity STEWARDSHIP AND GOVERNANCE Since 2011, Intertek has progressively gained international customers and others impacted by our work, are therefore of policy acts to eliminate discrimination so that our employees Interteks Board of Directors oversees and is responsible for the recognition in the field of anti-counterfeit medicines through utmost importance to us.
are treated fairly and feel respected and included in our Groups strategy, performance and risk management see pages its activities in Switzerland, the Philippines, Mozambique and workplaces.
We are committed to maintaining high standards 42 to 56.
The Board acknowledges the importance of diversity All those working for or on behalf of Intertek are required the UAE.
The Intertek lab in Basel, Switzerland was instrumental of fairness, respect and safety and adhere to the principles in the boardroom as a driver of good governance.
As at 31 to sign our Code of Ethics upon joining the Company or before in bringing a resolution to the fake medicine crisis in 2012 at of the UN Convention on Human Rights and the International December 2014, the Boards composition was 20% female commencing work on our behalf, confirming acceptance of the Punjab Institute of Cardiology hospital in the Lahore region, Labour Organisations core conventions.
and 80% male and for the senior leadership group 121 the high standards expected of them in all business dealings.
which claimed the lives of over 120 heart patients who had people, 23% female and 77% male.
To read more about The Code requires that employees act with integrity and in an been treated with counterfeit antihypertensive medicines.
INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE our Board diversity see page 57. open, honest, ethical and socially responsible manner.
It is the Intertek worked closely with the government of Punjab Training helps us to strengthen the most important pillar of responsibility of each Intertek employee or person acting on to rapidly identify and withdraw the suspect drugs among our organisation our employees.
We encourage our people Sustainability and CSR are integrated into Intertek through Interteks behalf to understand and apply the Intertek Code commonly used products such as Isotab isosorbide nitrate, to grow within Intertek by learning new skills to help them policy deployment.
Our operations and support functions of Ethics in their own job role, their part of the business and Lipitor atorvastatin calcium, Cardiovastin simvastatin, advance their careers, contribute to social mobility and deliver are responsible for identifying and evaluating risks applicable location.
All employees are required to complete our Code Alfagril clopidogrel, Concort amlodipine or Soloprin aspirin.
the best possible service to our customers.
to their areas of the business and the design and operation of Ethics training course annually.
of suitable internal controls see Principal Risks on pages This work, and our subsequent activity in the field of 11 to 17.
The Board has overall accountability for Interteks anti-counterfeit medicines led to the Intertek lab in Basel, sustainability and CSR, with Group-wide strategy and Switzerland being added, in October 2014, to the World Health implementation being the responsibility of the Group Vice Organisation list of Prequalified Quality Control Laboratories President, Human Resources.
considered acceptable for use by United Nations agencies.
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 39 Sustainability and CSR continued Intertek is committed to maintaining a culture where issues HEALTH & SAFETY As for Scope 3 emissions indirect GHG emissions from sources Our environment of integrity and professional ethics can be raised and discussed Intertek considers the health, safety and welfare of its not owned or directly controlled by Intertek but which relate to Intertek performs a vital role in helping its clients to sustain openly and has a strict policy of zero-tolerance regarding employees, clients and third parties connected with its business our activities Intertek sites continue, where possible, to reduce the environment and tackle climate change.
Equally, within breaches of compliance policy.
We have a well-publicised to be of paramount importance.
The Companys aim is to waste going to landfill, recycle and reduce water consumption.
Interteks own operations, there are controls in place to hotline for all employees, contractors and others representing achieve zero lost time injuries and Intertek is committed to the This year, our site in Perth, Australia was recognised for its minimise the Groups impact on the environment through Intertek, to enable confidential reporting of suspected continuous review and improvement of its health and safety contribution to tackling the challenge of water scarcity see utilising renewable sources of energy, reducing energy misconduct or breaches of the Code.
All employees are given training on health and inset.
We are also committed to utilising our in-house consumption in our buildings and facilities, implementing safety matters, including emergency response procedures and teleconferencing facilities to reduce our travel emissions.
During 2014 there were 31 hotline reports of non-compliance green waste management practices, minimising business intervention and reporting of accidents, incidents and near which were substantiated claims requiring remedial action.
As a further validation of Interteks commitment to tackling travel, carbon offsetting and operating quality management misses.
Where relevant, all employees and contractors are Reports of non-compliance are closely monitored and the climate change across the business, in 2014 Intertek in Japan systems.
To support this effort, our Environmental and Climate provided with personal protection equipment when performing Audit & Risk Committee periodically reviews the outcomes was awarded the S-Ranking from the Tokyo Metropolitan Change Policy is implemented through country management, work for the Company.
of the hotline and compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
Government for the second year running.
The Tokyo to ensure compliance with local guidelines and regulations.
Lines of communication for health and safety matters exist Government assesses Conformity Assessment Bodies CABs, For 2014, Interteks electricity consumption was reported to be Intertek total workforce by gender at every Intertek location globally.
This includes a dedicated fire of which Intertek is one, on their GHG emissions.
It then 241,900 MWh 6.30 MWh per employee and gas consumption warden, first-aider and health and safety representative.
These publishes the results on its website so that organisations can Male was reported to be 101,471 MWh 2.64 MWh per employee.
representatives enable us to not only investigate incidents and consider this ranking when selecting a CAB to work with.
Female 64% 36% prescribe preventive and corrective actions but also disseminate Only eight out of 40 CABs achieved the S-rank grade.
In 2013, Intertek developed its Greenhouse Gas GHG safety information through toolbox talks and continual emissions accounting and reporting to include all Intertek Intertek also participates in waste reduction and recycling improvement programmes.
In 2014 we focused on improving the activities and programmes with non-profit organisations quality of information captured and determining how this data During 2014 we achieved a 16% reduction in lost time injuries in Hong Kong.
In 2014 Intertek received the Low Carbon can add value to the business.
More details are given below.
One fatality was recorded in Operation Programme label from the World Wildlife Fund The levels of GHG emissions have been calculated using the Burkina Faso in West Africa.
This happened when the employee and the Green Office award from the World Green guidelines of the GHG protocol and DEFRA and relate to the was struck by a vehicle while undertaking a work-related Organisation, which encourages and audits businesses reporting period 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014. errand.
In response to this incident, an awareness campaign environmental initiatives.
about pedestrian road safety was communicated to all 1 CO e emissions from activities for which Intertek is responsible 2 At 31 December 2014 Intertek employed 38,407 people, employees in the region.
Interteks Minerals facility in Perth, Australia, was recognised include: an increase of 4% over the previous year.
for its outstanding water saving efforts by the Western 2014 2013 2012 GHG Emissions Australian Government as part of its Water Efficiency 1 Female:Male by region tonnes of CO e 2 Occupational fatalities 1 2 1 Management Programme.
The site was able to reduce Scope 1 the combustion of fuel 48,921 Lost time injuries rate 0.25 0.34 0.43 its usage by utilising water previously sent to waste as a Americas 8,921 Male operation of facilities 11,230 Medical treatment by-product of deionized water production.
Intertek received Female 6,448 Scope 2 purchase of electricity, injuries rate 0.34 0.36 0.38 both Platinum and Champion Awards the Champion heat or steam 142,510 Awards are presented to businesses achieving Platinum Rates refer to the number of lost-time injuries and medical treatment injuries occurring per 2,473 200,000 hours worked.
A lost-time injury is an accident which resulted in the employee Outside of or Gold for two consecutive years.
being unable to work for more than four consecutive days.
Scopes 607 Asia 19,292 We have continued to strengthen the process for reporting Total emissions 203,268 11,151 information relating to accidents, incidents and near misses through developing an online reporting tool, which is expected Intensity ratios 8,141 to be implemented in early 2015.
The resultant insights will be 2 2014 CO e per employee 5.29 2 shared globally to help reduce our accident rates and also EMEA 10,194 2 2013 CO e per employee 5.75 2 increase efficiency in our operations globally.
G HG emissions under the Kyoto protocol include fuel testing, fuel consumption and mileage, use of fire extinguishers, release of refrigerants and coolants, nitrous oxide usage, 3,222 steam and heat co-generation and steam import, in addition to electricity and gas consumption.
Interteks gender diversity reflects the industries and In order to provide a more complete picture of our global GHG qualification profiles typical of individuals working in the emissions, actual data was compiled for all our major operating countries and business lines in which we operate.
countries and for the smaller sites that were unable to provide data, some figures were extrapolated.
Extrapolation was based Revenue and headcount From left: Mia Davies, WA Water Minister, Rob Chapman Intertek Operations on equivalent activity data electricity and gas consumption of Manager Western Australia and Water Corporation CEO, Sue Murphy.
a single employee and then multiplied by the number of people 2,093 Revenue m 2014 at that site.
Actual data was used for minor contributions such 38,407 Headcount as fugitive emissions refrigerant and coolant leaks.
Where sites 2,184 2013 provided data covering only part of the year, figures were 36,864 2,054 extrapolated linearly to cover the full year.
2012 34,882 1,749 2011 31,712 Intertek employees in So Paulo, Brazil learn how to operate 1,374 fire-fighting equipment.
2010 27,044 Total number of Intertek employees over the last five years in relation to revenue shows continuing growth in employment.
S ST TR RAT ATE EG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 41 41 Sustainability and CSR continued BETTER DATA In China, Intertek experts held seminars and lectures In India, Intertek commissioned a mural, created largely from Our communities Improved data collection has enabled us to identify throughout the year for senior citizens on the subject of food recycled material, to adorn the wall of the main entrance to The communities in which we live and work are important opportunities to increase internal efficiencies.
A good example safety, food allergies and home safety.
They also provided One Intertek House in New Delhi.
The mural was created by to us and as an organisation, we are mindful of giving back to of this is the introduction of our LENS smart meter energy seminars for parents and community residents, covering safety a local village artisan through Art Kommune, a renowned art our neighbourhoods.
Interteks involvement in local community saving system at our Geelen site in the Netherlands the biggest aspects of toys, food and cosmetics and held educational platform that supports artisans from all over the world.
or charitable causes is determined at a local level by our energy user in our European operations where significant seminars for students at our Electrical lab in Shanghai.
Intertek experts in Japan discussed renewable energy and Country Managers, who support and encourage employee energy efficiencies have already been achieved.
As our GHG In Chile, Intertek held careers seminars for students of other topics as part of an Environment Experience Festival participation.
Many of our employees also contribute their emissions accounting develops further, we expect further good Santo Tomas College, provided internships to students of for seven local schools in Chuo-ku, Tokyo.
The event, which personal time to volunteering and fundraising for charity.
practice to emerge to further consolidate our commitment to a local technical college in co-operation with the Liguria received 1,500 visitors, was to raise young peoples awareness tackling climate change.
Investment Enterprise, and donated reagents to the of environmental issues through interactive experiences.
Some of the activities in which Intertek and its employees chemistry lab of a local school.
One hundred Intertek employees in Jakarta donated 30 litres participated during 2014 included: STANDARDS Across Australia and the Solomon Islands, our businesses and of blood to the Pelang Merah Indonesian Red Cross.
Many Intertek sites are certified to ISO 14001.
This A co-operation agreement with Llamada Solidaria, a NGO employees raised more than AUS$1,800 through a number environmental management system supports the continuous in Spain that helps investigate new treatments for adults of charitable events during the year, including Movember, improvement of energy consumption and waste and water and children with rare or complex diseases.
management, helping to reduce the impact of risk to the In addition to annual donations to the Children with Leukemia Intertek continued its work with the Leatherhead Hub in the environment, control costs and improve environmental Foundation, employees in Turkey raised 455 for families UK, to share skills and resources in support of students and performance.
As part of Interteks environmental management affected by the coal mine disaster in Soma, Manisa, in May.
Employees across the UK also took part system, there are strict controls in place to manage the On 18 July, Intertek employees in South Africa celebrated in events to raise funds for local charities and donated to local handling, storage and disposal of harmful and hazardous Mandela Day by taking part in a number of community food banks.
substances to minimise the risk of their release into the volunteering activities to carry forward Nelson Mandelas Intertek employees in Germany donated around 8,500 environment.
Intertek employees are fully trained in the safe vision of democracy, freedom, equality, diversity, to various charities and supported the Christmas campaign handling of such substances and are provided with appropriate reconciliation, and respect.
Geschenk mit Herz A heartfelt gift, sponsored by equipment and clothing to protect themselves and reduce the Intertek employees in the US took part in the Hood to Coast Humedica, a Kaufbeuren-based charity organisation.
A critical element of enabling Relay, a 199 mile race that starts from the foot of Mount Volunteers assembled thousands of parcels containing gifts, continuous improvement is the reporting of all incidents which Hood, the tallest peak in Oregon and ends at the Pacific Intertek employees in Jakarta donate blood to the Indonesian Red Cross.
learning and teaching materials, food and toys for all employees are required to do.
The race, which involved 20,000 participants from disadvantaged children who live in regions affected by crisis all 50 US states, raised over US$500,000 for cancer research, Sustainability and CSR COMMUNICATION and war.
General good practice and sustainability initiatives in Intertek Interteks Sustainability and CSR report was developed with reference to Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3.1 guidelines, which provide a recommended framework Some of the many events which took place at Intertek are communicated to all our employees.
Increasingly, Intertek and indicators for reporting.
A table outlining the GRI standard disclosures is provided at locations in Canada were an aeroplane pull in Hamilton, the end of this document.
All data used for performance indicators is representative of the sites are introducing green teams that seek innovative ways Group, unless stated otherwise.
which raised CAN$800 for MacMaster Hospitals kids to engage people into projects that support the delivery of charity MacKids, and CAN$3,250 in company and employee Interteks sustainability strategy.
All employees are made The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on donations to the Club des petits djeuners fide Montreal-Est, aware of Interteks Sustainability and CSR policy, of which 27 February 2015. a charity that funds local community projects and enables the environment is an important element.
access to healthy food for children and teenagers.
Employees in Germany volunteer to help Humedicas Christmas Campaign WOLFHART HAUSER In Hong Kong, our people took part in many events Chief Executive Officer throughout the year, including blood donations, charity fundraising, supporting the Ronald McDonald childrens care home, elderly care and youth development programmes.
The Hong Kong Red Cross awarded Intertek with the Caring The mural outside Interteks office in New Delhi, created by a local village Company logo for the third consecutive year in 2014. artisan from recycled materials.
Intertek employees in Hamilton, Ontario, participate in the annual Miracle Plane Pull for the McMaster Childrens Hospital.
DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 42 42 Directors report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT 43 43 Chairmans introduction COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Board is required to report on the operations of the Company by reference to the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which sets out standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
A copy of the Code is available from the UK Financial Reporting Council at www.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company applied all of the principles, and complied with each of the provisions set out in sections A to E of the Code.
Overleaf is an overview of the Companys compliance with the Code, which should be read in conjunction with the adjoining Corporate Governance Report.
SIR DAVID REID A fuller explanation of our compliance with the Code is set out on the Companys website at www.
com investors governance Chairman As part of our Governance we are constantly reviewing our DEAR SHAREHOLDER More information about the role and activity of the For more detail on Corporate Governance risk and assurance processes.
In the year we have re-assessed On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate Nomination Committee during the year is detailed on page 57.
42 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION our risk mitigation strategies and introduced improved methods Governance Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 The evaluation and performance review of the Board, 43 C ompliance with the UK Corporate of assurance to provide clear evidence to the Board that and to confirm that we have complied with all the provisions its Committees and each Director was undertaken internally Governance Code processes are in place and operating as outlined in the Audit set out in the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the this year and I am pleased to confirm that the conclusion 44 Corporate Governance & Risk Committee Report on page 52.
The Board believes that good governance is key of the evaluation was that the Board and its Committees 46 Board of Directors to the long-term success of the Group and we shall continue continue to operate effectively.
Each Director makes a A key role for me as Chairman is ensuring that we continually 48 Leadership to pursue the comply or explain approach.
Corporate significant contribution to debate and discussion in a collegial strive to have high standards of corporate governance whilst 49 Effectiveness Governance lies at the heart of our Company as compliance and open way that facilitates the constructive review of ensuring that the right controls are in place to provide the 52 Audit & Risk Committee and integrity form part of the foundations upon which performance and the agreed operation and strategy of the Board with the appropriate level of oversight and assurance.
57 Nomination Committee our values and mission as a Company are based.
Following the outcome of the evaluation, each Director 58 Remuneration Report continues to be committed to improving the governance The following report provides more information on how this will be recommended for re-election as a Director of the 72 Other statutory information framework and the need to demonstrate to shareholders is achieved and outlines our governance approach.
Company at the 2015 Annual General Meeting apart from 75 S tatement of Directors responsibilities that the Company is properly governed in order to support Wolfhart Hauser who is retiring after serving as Chief Executive the delivery of our strategic and business goals.
Officer for over ten years and Christopher Knight who is As Chairman, it is important that I ensure the Board has stepping down from the Board after serving as a Non-Executive the right combination of skills and experience to provide Director for nine years.
As per the Code, the evaluation at the the entrepreneurial leadership of the Company to ensure end of 2015 will be externally facilitated.
More information on the continued growth and success of the Group.
In making the outcome of the internal evaluation is described on page 49. any board appointments, the Nomination Committee is careful SIR DAVID REID During the year, Christopher Knight as Chairman of the to ensure that it is presented with, and considers, a broad range Chairman Remuneration Committee and I engaged with our top of candidates.
As mentioned in my report last year, a key focus shareholders respectively on remuneration and corporate of the Nomination Committee was on succession planning governance and the views of our shareholders were shared and this continued to be a top priority for 2014.
I am pleased with the Board.
to report that during the year, the Board announced that Andr Lacroix would join the Group as Chief Executive Officer I am interested in hearing the views of our shareholders in May 2015 and that Edward Leigh, the former Group Financial and ensuring that the Board take these into account when Controller, had been promoted to the role of Chief Financial considering the strategic direction of the Group.
Both have a very successful track record and their information about our engagement with shareholders appointments will strengthen the Boards diversity across is outlined on page 51. a range of measures, including skills, experience and nationality, which will help bring new perspectives to our discussions and decision making.
These appointments demonstrate our continued commitment to developing people within Intertek and our aim to introduce proven talent as part of our growth strategy.
DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 44 44 Directors report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT 45 45 Corporate governance COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company has complied with the principles and provisions of the 2012 B.
7 Re-election of Directors All Directors were subject to shareholder re-election or election UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM, as will be the Councils website at www.
uk case at the 2015 AGM, with the exception of Christopher Knight and Wolfhart Hauser who are retiring.
1 The Boards role The Board meets formally on a regular basis in order to formulate are available on pages 46 and 47.
Interteks strategy and commercial objectives and to review the Companys performance and strategy against set objectives, C. ACCOUNTABILITY C. 1 Financial and The Annual Report and Accounts sets out the performance whilst ensuring the necessary finances and human resources business reporting of the Company, the business model, strategy and the risks are in place.
There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for and uncertainties relating to the Company.
The Board have the Board as detailed on our website at www.
arrangements in place to ensure that the Report and Accounts present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the A.
2 A clear division The Company has both a Chairman, who is responsible Companys position and prospects.
of responsibilities for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board and a Chief Executive Officer who is responsible for leading the C. 2 Risk management The Board sets the Company's risk appetite to achieve its day-to-day management of the Company within the strategy and internal control strategic objectives and annually reviews the effectiveness of set by the Board.
systems the Company's risk management and internal control systems.
The activities of the Audit & Risk Committee, which assist the A.
3 Role of the Chairman The Chairman sets the agendas for the meetings, manages Board with its responsibilities in relation to risk setting and the meeting timetable and facilitates open and constructive management, are set out on page 53. dialogue during the meetings.
C. 3 Role and responsibilities The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to A.
4 Role of the The Non-Executive Directors actively engage and monitor of the Audit & Risk the Audit & Risk Committee, which has oversight of the risk Non-Executive Directors performance and help to develop proposals on strategy.
Committee management framework on behalf of the Board.
The Chairman They are responsible for determining the remuneration of of the Committee provides regular reports to the Board.
the Executive Directors and have a prime role in appointing Executive Directors and in succession planning.
D. REMUNERATION D. 1 The level and The levels of remuneration of the Executive Directors, and elements of how this promotes the long-term success of the Company B.
1 The Boards composition The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly by the remuneration together with an alignment of interests between the Directors Nomination Committee to ensure that there is an appropriate and shareholders by linking reward to performance, mix of skills, experience, independence, knowledge, gender are explained in the Directors Remuneration Report and other qualities.
2 Board appointments The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the D. 2 Development of The activities of the Remuneration Committee, and the way Nomination Committee.
The appointment process is clear, remuneration policy in which it sets executive remuneration, are set out in the rigorous and transparent.
Further details of the appointments and packages Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 71.
No director undertaken during the year and succession planning can be is involved in setting his or her own remuneration.
E. RELATIONS WITH E. 1 Shareholder engagement The Board seeks to actively engage with both institutional B.
3 Commitment The time commitments of Non-Executive Directors are defined SHAREHOLDERS and dialogue and retail shareholders.
Details of the shareholder engagement on appointment and regularly evaluated.
In practice, the time programme are set out on page 51. commitments go beyond those set out in the letters of appointment.
The Chairman gives consideration to new E. 2 Constructive use The Board values the AGM as an important opportunity to directorships that may impact existing time commitments.
of the AGM engage with shareholders.
Attendees at the AGM have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and to speak to B.
4 Training and A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all new individual Directors following the formal business of the meeting.
The Chairman reviews and discusses training and development requirements with each of the Non-Executive Compliance with the Code Directors.
Directors attend relevant training as necessary to update their knowledge.
A fuller explanation of our Compliance with the Code can be found on our website at B.
5 Information and The Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Company www.
support Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive timely, accurate and effective information using the latest technology.
6 Board, Director and An internally facilitated evaluation was undertaken during Committee evaluation 2014 and is described on pages 49 to 50.
The next externally facilitated evaluation will be held at the end of 2015.
DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 46 Directors report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT 47 Board of Directors Committee of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Committees: Elsevier NV, and on 14 January 2015 was N Nomination appointed a Non-Executive Director of A Audit & Risk Associated British Foods plc.
R Remuneration N R R SIR DAVID REID DAME LOUISE MAKIN MARK WILLIAMS ALAN BROWN Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in December 2011 Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive and became Chairman in January 2012.
She is currently Chief Director in September 2013.
Until February Director in April 2011.
He is currently Group Sir David Reid retired as Non-Executive Executive Officer of BTG plc, a growing 2013, Dr. Mark Williams worked for over Chief Executive Officer of ASCO Global, EDWARD LEIGH Chairman of Tesco PLC in November 2011 international specialist healthcare company, 33 years at Royal Dutch Shell Plc Shell, an international oilfield support services Chief Financial Officer after serving in that role since April 2004. a position she has held since 2004.
Before including more than 21 years in Shells business and a Non-Executive Director to Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Prior to that he was Deputy Chairman of joining BTG, Louise was at Baxter Exploration & Production and midstream the Home Office.
Alan was Chief Executive Officer in October 2014.
Prior to joining Tesco PLC and had served on the Tesco Healthcare from 2000, holding the roles businesses in the US, serving most recently Officer of Rentokil Initial plc for five years Intertek, Edward spent nine years at Dixons Board since 1985.
David is Chairman of the of Vice President, Strategy & Business as Downstream Director and a member of until October 2013.
He spent 25 years Retail Plc, where he held several senior charity Whizz-Kidz.
In February 2012 he was Development Europe, and from 2001, the Executive Committee of Shell, where at Unilever PLC where he rose through financial management positions, including appointed a member of the Global Senior President of the Biopharmaceuticals division he was one of the top three operating a variety of finance roles in the UK and Divisional & Corporate Development Advisory Board of Jefferies International of Baxter Healthcare, where she was executives responsible for all strategic, Europe and then general management in Finance Director, UK & Ireland CFO and Limited, a global securities and investment responsible for Europe, Africa and the capital, and operational matters.
His last four years were Group Financial Controller.
He was formerly the Senior Middle East.
Prior to her time at Baxter, she has held Board positions on non-profit as Executive Chairman of Unilever China.
2004 Edward held commercial financial Independent Non-Executive Director of was Director of Global Ceramics at English and industry Boards and is currently Following this, Alan returned to the UK leadership roles at Procter & Gamble Co. Reed Elsevier Group PLC, Chairman of China Clay, and in her earlier career, held Chairman of Hess Corporation in the US.
as Chief Financial Officer at Imperial covering the UK and international markets.
Kwik-Fit Group Ltd, Non-Executive Director a variety of roles at ICI between 1985 and Chemical Industries PLC taking a leading at Greenalls Group Plc now fide Vere Group, 1998.
Louise is a Trustee of The Outward role in the divestment of the company.
Legal & General Group Plc and Westbury Bound Trust and was previously a Nonplc.
In November 2010, Sir David was Executive Director of Premier Foods plc.
appointed a member of the Prime Ministers Business Ambassadors Network.
A N A LENA WILSON EDWARD ASTLE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director N A R CHRISTOPHER KNIGHT Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director in July 2012.
She is currently Chief Director in September 2009.
Until July N A Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive MICHAEL WAREING CMG Executive Officer of Scottish Enterprise, 2013, he was Pro Rector Enterprise Director in March 2006.
He was an Senior Independent Scotlands national economic development at Imperial College London where he investment banker for nearly 30 years, WOLFHART HAUSER Non-Executive Director agency, a member of Scotlands Financial had overseen the universitys relationships for much of that time with Morgan Chief Executive Officer Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Services Advisory Board and Chair of with industry, and led business Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
He is a Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Director in April 2011.
He is currently the Scotlands Energy Jobs Taskforce.
Prior development opportunities in the UK Chartered Accountant and has extensive Officer in March 2005 after serving as a Senior Independent Director and Audit to this, she was Chief Executive Officer and internationally.
Edward was an corporate finance experience gained during Non-Executive Director since November Committee Chairman at Cobham plc and of Scottish Development International Executive Director of National Grid plc his banking career in London, New York 2002.
Wolfhart Hauser was previously was previously a Non-Executive Director and Scotlands international trade and from 2001 to 2008, a Managing Director and Hong Kong.
He is Chairman of Brooks Chief Executive Officer and President of TV Audit Committee Chairman at Wolseley plc.
investment arm and Chief Operating at the BICC Group from 1997 to 1999 and Macdonald Group plc, Senior Independent Sddeutschland AG for four years and Chief Michael was appointed as the Economic Officer, Scottish Enterprise.
Lena was an Executive and Regional Director at Cable Non-Executive Director of Powerflute Executive Officer of TV Product Services Development Adviser to the Government also a Senior Advisor to The World Bank & Wireless plc from 1989 to 1997.
Oyj and a Trustee of the Churches for ten years.
Starting his career with various of Afghanistan in August 2011.
He has in Washington DC on private sector Previously he held senior business strategy Conservation Trust.
research activities he went onto establish major international and board level development for developing countries.
positions in the UK and France.
He is a and lead a broad range ofsuccessful knowledge gained during an extensive Lena is a member of the University of member of the BT Equality of Access Board, international service industrybusinesses.
global career up to senior partner level at Strathclydes Business Advisory Board, and a member of the Governing Board of the He has held several non-executive board KPMG, where his last position was as an Ambassador for the Prince and Princess University of Manchester and Vice Chair director and chairman roles in a variety International Chief Executive Officer, which of Wales Hospice and the Edinburgh of the Shannon Trust.
He was a Nonhe occupied for four years until 2009.
She served on the Board Executive Director of Logica plc until August was previously the Prime Ministers Special of the Princes Scottish Youth Business 2012.
He is currently a Non-Executive Envoy for Reconstruction in Southern Iraq.
Trust for 10 years as well as numerous arts, Director and Chairman of the Remuneration culture, business and sport organisations.
DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 48 Directors report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT 49 Corporate governance continued SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly Business Leadership Effectiveness The Senior Independent Director is Michael Wareing.
Performance Reports and information which enables them THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETINGS In addition to his responsibilities as a Non-Executive Director, to review the performance of the Group and management The Board is collectively responsible for providing During 2014, there were seven scheduled Board meetings.
he provides a sounding board for the Chairman and is against the agreed strategy, budget objectives and prior period entrepreneurial leadership of the Company to ensure that A table of Directors attendance at Board meetings during responsible for leading the Directors review of the Chairmans performance.
As well as the above, during the year the Board the strategic aims and financial performance are delivered the year is set out below.
Details of the Directors Committee performance.
He is available to meet with shareholders who also receive updates on debt financing, market reports, share within a prudent framework of control systems.
It spends attendance are set out in their respective reports.
feel they are unable to raise issues through the usual channels trading reports, analysts forecasts, litigation reports, final and time reviewing the following key activities: of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief interim dividend recommendations, road show and investor Board Memb ership and Meeting Attendance Financial Officer.
feedback, interim management statements, announcements Strategy: Board Members Number of meetings held in 2014 and a wide range of other issues.
Growth and development: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Eligible to attend Attendance Oversight of performance: The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, During the year, there was a strategy session held off-site Sir David Reid 7 7 Corporate governance: and Chairman independent and external insight to the Boards proceedings within the UK to focus on strategic opportunities and conduct 1 Increasing long-term shareholder value.
Wolfhart Hauser 7 6 and bring with them a wealth of experience and knowledge reviews on key areas of the business.
Chief Executive Officer from other business sectors and industries.
The Letters of The Board also reviews and approves the method and approach 2 Lloyd Pitchford 5 4 Appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, as well as the Board visit to United Arab Emirates UAE Chief Financial Officer to risk management and internal control systems and the until 30 September 2014 Service Agreements of Executive Directors, are available for In October 2014, the Board visited the Intertek operations Groups risk register.
The overall powers of Directors are inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Edward Leigh 2 2 in the UAE, which provided an excellent opportunity for set out in the Companys Articles of Association, which are Chief Financial Officer the Board to meet with local management and to visit sites.
appointed 1 October 2014 available on the Companys website and may be amended by GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY The local management team presented on the drivers of special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board may exercise Edward Astle 7 7 The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Non-Executive Director the local operations and businesses and opportunities in the all powers conferred on it by the Articles in accordance with correct Board and governance procedures are followed and Alan Brown 7 7 region.
There was also time for informal interaction between the Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation.
advises the Board on all corporate governance related matters.
Non-Executive Director the Board and senior management after the meetings.
3 The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board Christopher Knight 7 6 The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management, Non-Executive Director and its principal Committees, and her advice and services are strategic direction and performance of the Group.
There is BOARD DEVELOPMENT Dame Louise Makin 7 7 available to all Directors.
a clear division of responsibility between the running of Non-Executive Director There is a formal induction programme which is tailored to the Board and the executive responsibility for running the 4 All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional Michael Wareing 7 6 meet the needs of new Directors which is managed by the Senior Independent Companys business.
The Board Approval Matrix outlines the advice, at the Groups expense, in the performance of their Chairman and the Group Company Secretary.
During the Non-Executive Director matters that are specifically reserved for the Board.
The Board duties as Directors.
No such advice was sought during the year.
programme, new Directors meet with senior members of Mark Williams 7 7 also delegates certain responsibilities to management and this Non-Executive Director management and receive orientation from the relevant senior The Company has granted an indemnity, to the extent is governed by the Authorities Cascade which is regularly Lena Wilson 7 7 executives in relation to each of the business lines and other permitted by law, to each of the Directors and the Group Non-Executive Director reviewed and updated to meet business needs.
functions to ensure that they gain a deeper understanding and Company Secretary.
Directors and officers liability insurance In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met at short notice on a quorate basis.
They receive information about the BOARD COMPOSITION is in place.
W olfhart Hauser was unable to attend one meeting due to an unavoidable business commitment.
business operations, internal audit activities, Group risks and The Board consists of the Chairman, two Executive Directors 2.
L loyd Pitchford was unable to attend one meeting due to an unavoidable DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST management processes and procedures.
Biographical details of family commitment.
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 3.
Christopher Knight was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
individual Directors are set out on pages 46 and 47.
All During the year the Directors were kept up-to-date with 4.
Michael Wareing was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
to avoid conflicts of interests and to disclose any outside Directors served throughout the year apart from Edward Leigh information about Interteks business and there is an on-going appointments.
The Board has a formal system to deal with BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR who was appointed Chief Financial Officer on 1 October 2014 programme of information dissemination.
It is important that conflicts of Directors interests.
The Directors are advised During the year, the Board has considered the following matters: following the resignation of Lloyd Pitchford.
the Directors have an appreciation of our business both in the of the process for dealing with conflicts of interests upon UK and overseas and during the year there were presentations Group strategy and commercial objectives: ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER appointment and they are reminded of this obligation from senior management to the Board and meetings have been 2015 annual business budget: There is a clear division of responsibilities between the at subsequent Board meetings.
held on regional strategy to increase the understanding of Full year results, Annual Report and half year results Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, and these Any authorised decisions are reviewed on an annual basis operations, opportunities and risks.
Directors are regularly and related announcements: responsibilities have been formalised in writing.
The Chairman, or when a new Director is appointed, or if a new potential updated as necessary on various statutory obligations and Acquisitions: Sir David Reid, is responsible for the leadership and governance conflict arises.
The Conflicts Register is maintained by the corporate governance matters.
Governance, risk and internal controls: of the Board ensuring its effectiveness, setting agendas, Group Company Secretary and is reviewed annually by the Significant capital expenditure and material contracts: ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Board.
Directors abstain from voting when there is a vote Dividend policy: information and that there is effective communication with During the year, the Board engaged in a performance to approve their own reported conflicts.
In 2014, this process Tax and treasury policies: shareholders.
He facilitates the effective contribution to the evaluation led by the Chairman with the support of the operated effectively.
Talent mapping and succession planning: and Board of the Non-Executive Directors in particular ensuring Group Company Secretary comprising a series of detailed Health and safety.
constructive relationships between the Executive and Nonquestionnaires which provide the framework for the evaluation.
There are questionnaires for each of the following: the Board, each Committee and for each Director and the Chairman.
The Chief Executive Officer, Wolfhart Hauser, is responsible Responses to the questionnaire were collated and the output for the day-to-day operation of the business in line with the was used by the Chairman in his one-to-one interviews with strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
He is also responsible for promoting and conducting the affairs of the Company with the highest standards of ethics, integrity and corporate governance.
The Chief Executive Officer leads the Executive Management Team, details of which, are set out on pages 18 and 19.
DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50 Directors report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT 51 Corporate governance continued The Board evaluation focused on any current hot topics or At each Board Meeting, the Chairman of each Committee Risk Control and Assurance Committee RCA Annual General Meeting AGM issues as well as the key subjects set out below: provides the Board with a brief summary of the work carried There are two key elements to the work of the Committee: This year the AGM will be held on 15 May 2015 in the out by their Committee, if any, between Board meetings and Park Room at the Westbury Hotel, Conduit Street, London, 1. t o oversee the development and improvement of the Groups Key topics in the Board evaluation questionnaire makes recommendations to the Board for approval.
The AGM provides the opportunity for all risk management, internal controls and assurance framework information on the responsibilities and activities of each of shareholders to develop their understanding of the Companys and the related procedures and systems: and Board composition and diversity the Committees can be found on pages 52 to 56 Audit & Risk strategy and operations, to ask questions of the full Board on Strategy and review Committee, page 57 Nomination Committee and on pages 2. t o oversee the operation and implementation of the the matters put to the meeting, including the Annual Report Board performance 58 to 71 Remuneration Committee.
All Board members attend the AGM and, in Board processes and information particular, the Chairmen of the Audit & Risk, Nomination and The RCA is comprised of the Chief Financial Officer, Group Board expertise Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
Company Secretary, Chief Information Officer, Group ViceInternal controls and risk management oversight The Company proposes a resolution on each separate issue Intertek Group plc Shareholders President, Human Resources, Group Financial Controller, Head Senior management and succession planning and does not combine resolutions inappropriately.
The Notice of Legal, and Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee met five Engagement with shareholders of the AGM Notice is sent to shareholders by times during 2014.
Intertek Board of Directors e-communications or by post.
The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board More information on the RCA is available in the Audit & Risk A copy of the Notice is available on the Companys website, at its meeting in January 2015 with no significant issues being Committee report on page 55. at www.
The review clearly indicated that the Board and Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS each of its Committees continue to work efficiently and Committee Committee Committee Shareholder engagement effectively, and that the contribution and commitment of The views and opinions of our shareholders are important each Director, and their interaction with each other, is well to the Company and we maintain an ongoing engagement developed.
As a result of the evaluation, the Board agreed Executive Risk Control Investment programme for major shareholders.
Our largest shareholders to continue to focus more time on: Management and Assurance Committee Team are invited annually to meet with the Chairman to share their Committee people capability, talent mapping and succession planning: views.
In 2014 we invited shareholders holding more than and 40% of the share register collectively to these meetings Divisional & Country health and safety policies, frameworks and reporting.
Support Functions which were held in early 2015.
Management The Board also agreed to: The engagement programme is run by the Head of Investor Relations, and this includes road-shows, site visits, revisit the acquisition strategy: presentations, and briefings.
Examples of some of the key increase the focus on emerging trends and potential impact Risks Controls events in our Investor Relations Calendar are shown in the on the business: and next column.
In 2014 we held over 350 separate meetings with undertake a deep dive session on risk as well as the review investors.
Feedback from investors is provided to the Board by and approval of the Group Risk Register.
our brokers and the Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman Board Committees As part of the evaluation process, the Directors, led by the and the Senior Independent Director are available to meet with Operational Committees Senior Independent Director, conducted a performance review shareholders.
The other Non-Executive Directors are also of the Chairman.
The Board has confirmed that the contribution available to meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any OPERATIONAL COMMITTEES of each of the Directors continues to be effective and matters relating to the Company.
The Companys website has Executive Management Team recommends that shareholders should be supportive of their an investors section which includes a wealth of information that The Executive Management Team EMT, which comprises election or re-election to the Board.
The Board will continue may be of interest to our shareholders and investors.
the Executive Directors, the senior Group and Executive to review its procedures, effectiveness and development during Investor Relations Calendar Vice-Presidents and other senior management, meet regularly the year ahead, and the Chairman will use the output of the to discuss and decide business and operational issues.
most recent Board evaluation in his individual meetings with January Governance Roadshow The biographical details of the EMT can be found on Directors during the year.
In 2012, the performance evaluation pages 18 and 19.
March Annual Results Roadshows of the Board and its Committees was facilitated by an independent third party firm.
The Board plans to conduct April Investor Site Visit Investment Committee a further externally facilitated evaluation in 2015.
Testing, Inspection & Assurance The Investment Committee is responsible for reviewing Conference significant contracts, leases and acquisitions: undertaking GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AND BOARD COMMITTEES May Annual General Meeting post investment appraisal reviews: and overseeing capital The Group has a clear Governance Framework, as set Interim Management Statement expenditure and investments as defined in the Authorities out in the diagram in the next column which explains Cascade and forms part of the Intertek Corporate Governance how authority is delegated from the Board.
June Global Business Services Conference Framework.
The membership of the Investment Committee August Interim Results Roadshows The principal Board Committees comprise the Audit consists of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial & Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and September European Support Services Conference Officer with the Group Vice President, Human Resources in the Remuneration Committee.
UK Large Cap Conference attendance.
The Committee is serviced by the Group Company Secretary or her representative.
Each of the Boards Committees has received delegated October Testing, Inspection & Assurance authority to carry out the business defined in its Terms of Conference Reference.
The Board is satisfied that the Terms of Reference November Interim Management Statement for each of these Committees reflect current best practice and Private Wealth Management Roadshow satisfy the terms of the Code.
The Terms of Reference for these Investor Site Visits principle Committees are available on the Companys website December Senior Management Thematic Lunch at www.
