Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 03 Chairmans Statement Meggitt continued to forge ahead driven by a combination of strong military markets and recent highly successful acquisitions.
In 2003, profit before tax, exceptional In January 2004, Peter Hill, a Chartered items and goodwill amortisation was up 7% Engineer, was appointed to the Board and would have been an impressive 19% as a non executive director.
Peter is Chief had we not suffered 6.3 million adverse Executive of the Laird Group PLC and was currency translation and 2.0 million previously Head of Strategic Planning additional pension cost.
Meggitt continued for BTR plc, before assuming senior its outstanding record of cash generation corporate and Divisional President roles with cash flow, before acquisitions and with Invensys plc.
disposals, of 40.8 million and the Board is proposing a 7% increase in the final These appointments bring a wealth of dividend to 5.1 pence.
experience from a number of companies and different sectors.
During 2003, Meggitt continued to build its defence business assisted by several The outlook for 2004 looks much more acquisitions.
Caswell International encouraging for Meggitt than this time last Corporation, acquired in April 2003, with its year.
There are signs that the civil market land-based targetry, complements Meggitt for spares and repairs is recovering Defence Systems target systems offering following the war in Iraq and the scares and opens up new markets for its unique associated with SARS.
Military markets target scoring systems.
Western Design remain strong and our electronics Howden Inc, acquired in December 2003 businesses face a positive future.
from Charter plc, gives Defence Systems a solid position in ground based fighting I conclude by congratulating all our vehicles in the USA with its automated employees on their superb performance in ammunition handling technology and 2003.
In a testing commercial environment, environmental conditioning systems.
all have played their role in supporting the Howden Airdynamics Inc, also acquired in growth strategy, delivering dependable December 2003, has been integrated into shareholder returns.
Thanks to them, the Aerospace Equipment business, Meggitt has maintained its impressive extending its range of military products into track record and I wish everyone all the fans, pumps and compressors.
The last few months have seen a number of changes to the Board.
In January 2004, Stephen Young was appointed as Group Finance Director, replacing Chris Rickard who left the Group in December 2003.
Mike Stacey Stephen has held a number of senior Chairman financial positions including, most recently, Group Finance Director of Thistle Hotels plc.
Previously he has been Group Finance Director of the Automobile Association and Group Finance Controller of Thorn EMI plc.
04 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003
