CHAIRMANS STATEMENT G. H. WADDELL CHAIRMAN am pleased to report that the Groups performance in Liverpool I2003 was in line with our expectations and a stronger In Liverpool, container volumes were up 8.0% at 578,000 teu second half delivered growth in our core port operations.
The principal increase in volumes came The Group, with its high quality assets, spread of business from the newer feeder services linking Liverpool to hub ports and geographical mix, is benefiting from substantial in the Mediterranean and continental Europe.
"The recently recent investment and is well positioned to take announced cessation of the Maersk Sealand ""Liverpool advantage of any economic upturn."
"Express"" service due to inflation of time charter costs is In 2003, Group turnover increased by 8.9% to 297.4 unfortunate, but container volume growth has continued in the million 2002: 273.0 million and profit before taxation early weeks of 2004, and the outlook for the year is positive, was up 0.8% at 53.7 million 2002: 53.3 million."
with capacity increases planned on several services.
Looking Underlying profit before goodwill amortisation and tax further ahead, preliminary studies have begun into the was up 1.1% at 55.2 million 2002: 54.6 million, in development of a new deep sea container terminal on the spite of a 2.1 million increase in net interest payable.
river at Liverpool to address the possibility of the North Underlying earnings per share were up 2.0% at 46.9 pence Atlantic container trade moving to post Panamax ships.
Basic earnings per share were 45.1 Agribulk volumes were marginally ahead of last year at 2.38 pence 2002: 44.5 pence.
million tonnes 2002: 2.36 million, and a similar throughput is With a cash conversion ratio increasing from 112% to expected in 2004.
The opening of the new animal feed stuffs 118%, these results once again demonstrate the cash discharge terminal and warehouse in April served to boost generative nature of the Group.
The Board continues to performance in the second half and this project should deliver keep the share repurchase programme under close further improvements in both turnover and margin in future review: however, with the share price at or around the years.
current level, the case for repurchases is less compelling.
In Other Bulks, the main component of the increased volume The Board has proposed a final dividend of 16.0p per was re-cycled metals, up 26% at 2.6 million tonnes.
Capital share giving a total dividend for the year of 23.1 pence investment by the two main customers in this sector, EMR and per share, a 7.4% increase over 2002.
The total dividend Nortons, has amounted to 25 million over the past two years, would be covered twice by underlying earnings, which the providing a solid platform for continuing growth.
Board considers to be appropriate in a business which Imported coal throughput was similar to 2002, and the demonstrates long-term stability.
The increase in dividend contract with Powergen was renewed in March 2003 reflects the strength of the port operations and the underpinning both volume and revenue for a further 10 years.
Boards confidence in the Groups future progress.
Roll-on roll-off volumes suffered a reduction of 7.0% as a result of the reduced shipping capacity operated by PORT OPERATIONS NorseMerchant Ferries NMF, which remained in The divisions turnover increased 7.3% to 153.8 million Administration until mid December.
The restructuring of its 2002: 143.3 million and operating profit before goodwill ownership has now been completed, and future expansion increased by 5.2% to 54.3 million 2002: 51.6 million.
The plans have been discussed.
The closure of the competing small decline in operating margin reflects an increase in the Mostyn-Dublin route is likely to add to an expected resumption contribution of lower margin activities.
The tonnage of cargo of growth in Irish Sea roll-on roll-off traffic.
shipped through our three main ports, Liverpool, Medway and Heysham, increased by 3.3% and the volume of containers Medway handled at Marine Terminals in Dublin was up 23.6%.
At the Medway ports of Sheerness and Chatham, fresh produce a bc a Busy quayside scene at Sheerness b Timber is unloaded at Sheerness c Steel stored at Gladstone Terminal, Liverpool 9 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT G. H. WADDELL CHAIRMAN volumes were up 8.4% at 887,000 tonnes 2002: 818,000 response to reduced NMF sailings through a 20% reduction in tonnes boosted by the attraction of a new service personnel at the end of January 2003.
Some recovery of importing melons from South America.
This sector has been volume is expected in 2004, and this prospect has been further strengthened by the restructuring of joint venture enhanced by an increase in sailings to Belfast from the arrangements with Capespan, which will improve capacity beginning of March.
at the Fresh Fruit Terminals FFTS temperature controlled store, and by an agreement with Chiquita to construct the UKs Joint ventures first port located banana-ripening facility.
The joint ventures associated with the Port Operations Division General Cargo volumes showed a very significant increase to produced profits of 0.4 million, against 1.3 million for 2002.
434,000 tonnes 2002: 99,000 tonnes, principally due to the The principal reasons for the lower profits are associated with steel export shipments from the recently re-opened plant at currency adjustments at the SOMSA operation in Argentina and Sheerness.
Further growth is expected in the current year.
costs related to the re-organisation of operations at FFTS in Car imports slowed in the second half, and the full year Sheerness.
Profits from Northwestern Shiprepairers and volume of 435,000 units was down 5.4% 2002: 460,000, Shipbuilders were maintained at last years level, and the partly reflecting the loss of Mazda throughput.
An uncertain venture has enjoyed a strong start to 2004.
The Maputo Port near-term outlook for this sector is countered by continuing Development Company, in which the Group leads the investing strong demand for storage sites, which underpins rental consortium, is performing in line with expectations.
The National Grid Transco project to construct a LNG facility SHIPPING DIVISION alongside Thamesport on the River Medway commenced in In a market which continues to evidence significant overJuly, and the terminal should be operational from the first capacity, the Groups shipping interests did well to report an quarter of 2005, increasing the estuarys annual throughput by increase in turnover to 88.0 million 2002: 77.9 million and at least 3 million tonnes.
operating profit before goodwill of 2.7 million 2002: 1.8 million.
All parts of the division were profitable, with BG Dublin Freight Line making a notable contribution to the divisions The re-equipment programme at Marine Terminals MTL in improved result.
Dublin is now complete following the commissioning of a fifth ship-to-shore crane in February 2004.
The terminal increased LOGISTICS AND TRANSPORT DIVISION units handled by 23.6% to 136,000 units from 110,000 in The division reported a 5.3% increase in turnover, to 53.6 2002, maintaining the progress made in the first half.
The million 2002: 50.9 million and operating profits before strong performance at MTL was mirrored by DCATS, the goodwill were 1.7 million 2002: 2.0 million.
Roadferry container storage and repair facility, and further improvements produced a satisfactory result, similar to 2002, and successful in throughput, turnover and operating margin are expected at moves to larger depots in Belfast, Glasgow and Aberdeen have both businesses in 2004. ensured capacity for anticipated growth over the next 2-3 years.
The divisions overall result was adversely affected by Heysham poor financial performance from the tank transport businesses, The port of Heysham continued to perform satisfactorily in reflecting the continuing erosion of operating margins in this financial terms, although roll-on roll-off volumes declined by highly competitive sector, and further cost-cutting measures 13.2% to 363,000 units and overall volumes were down 9.4%.
have been implemented to restore profitability.
The operating margin was protected by an immediate 10 PROPERTY DIVISION the share price at or around the current level, however, the The division reported improved operating profits before case for repurchases is less compelling.
At Princes Dock, Net interest payable rose by 2.1 million to 12.5 million.
the third office building continues to attract serious interest Interest cover on underlying profits was 5.4 times, reduced with further lettings nearing completion and it is expected to from 6.3 times for 2002, but still an acceptable level.
Net be substantially occupied by mid 2004.
Contracts for the borrowings at the year-end were 239.9 million, representing construction of the multi-storey car park, with retail space and gearing of 61.5%.
a crche, have now been agreed.
City Lofts has obtained The tax rate for 2003, in line with predictions, was 31.5%, planning consent for its development of a two-tower block of increased from the 29% for 2002.
This has diluted the effects 162 residential units with some retail space and car parking.
of the share buy-back on growth in earnings per share, which The proposal to develop the 39.2 hectare Central Docks otherwise would have increased by some 5.1% 5.7% on an brownfield site in Liverpools docklands in conjunction with underlying basis.
English Partnerships received outline planning consent in The final dividend of 16.0 pence per share will, if approved by principle in 2003, and a full revision of the development shareholders, be paid on 20th May, 2004 to shareholders on master plan is under way.
Discussions continue with Liverpool the register at 30th April, 2004.
City Council and English Partnerships on the details of the The funding position of the Groups defined benefit pension consent.
Once the revised master plan has received approval, schemes which were closed to new entrants in November, a Calculation of Worth will be undertaken.
"2000, as defined by FRS 17 ""Retirement Benefits"" improved due to the rise in equity markets."
At the year-end the deficit, FINANCE after taking account of the related tax effect, was 18.7 million Group profit on ordinary activities before tax, before on assets of 153 million.
An actuarial valuation of the Groups amortisation of goodwill of 1.5 million, was 55.2 million main defined benefit schemes is due in 2004 and an increase against 54.6 million for 2002.
The Group has also absorbed in the Companys contribution rate is expected for 2005.
2.1 million of increased interest costs, reflecting the capital investment in 2002 and the share buy-back programme.
DIRECTORATE Cash generated from operations during the year was 77.9 The Board strengthened the team of Non-Executive Directors million, against 71.2 million for 2002, with the cash with the appointment of Mr. Garth James on 1st June 2003.
Mr. conversion ratio increasing from 112% to 118%.
Capital James retired in July 2002 after 30 years experience in the investment during the year resulted in a net cash outflow of City, latterly as a senior corporate finance adviser with Hoare 14.6 million.
In addition, new finance leases for 4.3 million Govett.
His background enables him to bring to the Boards were taken out in the year.
Capital expenditure for 2004 is deliberations a strong focus on strategic direction and expected to be approximately 25 million, of which some 7 shareholder value.
million will relate to the new car park and associated The Board and many employees throughout the Group were infrastructure works at Princes Dock.
greatly saddened by the death in November of Mr. Frank The share buy-back programme resulted in the purchase and Taylor, who had served as a Non-Executive Director since cancellation of 7,595,000 ordinary shares in 2003 at a total January 1996.
He had also been Chairman of the Trustees of cost of 41.4 million, representing an average cost of 545 the Groups principal pension funds and Chairman of the Port pence per share.
With cash generation continuing to be strong, of Liverpool Police Committee.
Mr. Taylor had made a much the Board will keep the programme under close review, and valued contribution to the Board and had earned both the will seek to renew its authority at the forthcoming AGM.
With respect and affection of colleagues.
cd e a b a Two cranes work a heavy lift at Liverpool b Computer image of river container terminal under consideration at Liverpool c Twelve Princes Dock, the latest office development at the riverside location in Liverpool e Forest products stored at Medway Ports f A line boat at work on the River Medway 11 OUTLOOK The Board is confident that the Property Division will advance Following a period of high investment, the Group has a wellwith new lettings at Twelve Princes Dock and will continue to balanced business serving a broad range of markets with high seek opportunities that would enable the Group to capture quality assets which have the capacity for generating future full value of its property assets.
Discussions continue with revenue growth without further major capital expenditure.
potential developers of a number of plots at Princes Dock and Although the market and economic climates remain uncertain, Central Docks to maximise these opportunities, although the the Group is well positioned to benefit from any upturn and exact timing of financial benefits remains uncertain.
the stronger second half performance in 2003 is most The Groups recent investment programme is beginning to encouraging.
deliver growth and the beneficial impact should be evident for In the main Port Operations Division, the outlook for container several years.
This programme has been enhanced by volumes is positive and any uncertainty over Irish Sea roll-on substantial customer investments at the Groups main port roll-off services is now largely resolved with the re-structuring locations, reflecting confidence in our portfolio and its of NMF and the expected closure of the competing Mostynprospects.
The Board therefore looks forward to 2004 with an Dublin route.
expectation of improved trading and progress for the Group.
Results from the Shipping Division should show evidence of the benefits of last October's vessel sharing arrangement with Eucon and Eurofeeder, although the overall market in which the division operates continues to be very competitive.
The Logistics and Transport Division is expected to show improved results as volumes grow into the new capacity G. H. Waddell available to the operation.
The tank transport businesses are Chairman forecasting a return to profitability.
