Chairmans statement The Banking and Securities Division has undergone substantial change over the past year.
Following the strategic review of banking software markets undertaken during the first half, a far-reaching reorganisation was implemented creating three new businesses aligned with their respective target markets: Misys Retail Banking Systems, Misys Risk Management Systems and Misys Wholesale Banking Systems.
At the same time, we made further staff reductions and accelerated the process of moving development resources towards lower cost, offshore locations.
Kevin Lomax Chairman, Misys plc These actions have helped significantly to improve the competitive positioning of our businesses.
It is a reflection of the strength of our management that we were able to do all I am pleased to report on a this and to produce a robust trading performance during a year of resilient trading and year in which banks made further cuts to their IT budgets.
continued investment for The US healthcare IT market environment was more benign, and our Healthcare Systems Division produced a strong the Group.
Although market operating performance while also taking initiatives to strengthen the positioning of its businesses.
In Hospital conditions generally remained Systems, we are establishing a strong position in the emerging challenging throughout the enterprise clinical market with the announcement, since the year end, of the acquisition of the Patient1 computerised year, we were able to improve patient record product.
In Physician Systems, we have profitability while at the same increased investment in the development of our clinical solution, Misys EMR.
Our Homecare Systems business had an time pursuing major initiatives excellent year, delivering against aggressive growth plans and establishing itself as one of the leading players in the market.
in each division to expand Growth in non-commission income streams allowed the and re-position within our Independent Financial Adviser IFA business to deliver a strong target markets.
financial performance, despite a fall in numbers of Registered Individuals RIs caused by adverse conditions in the investment markets.
The General Insurance business put in another good performance this year.
This is a reflection of the size and stability of its customer base in the UK insurance broker market.
Across the Group, we have maintained our commitment to investment in product development.
Total spend on research and development rose to 90m, a like for like increase of 7%.
The Groups cash performance has once again been strong with all divisions achieving more than 100% cash conversion.
During the year, we spent 40m on a share buyback programme, repurchasing 22 million shares at an average cost of 184p.
The Groups net debt decreased to 119m 2002: 159m.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.55p per share.
This would raise the full year dividend by 15% to 5.67p.
Sesame A year ago, we announced our intention to float the Groups IFA related businesses, and indicated that this would take place within two years.
Since then, regulatory Sesame launches on 1 August 2003 change has been slower than many anticipated and equity 14 Misys Annual Report 2003 markets have remained volatile: these conditions may affect of existing contractual commitments, we would expect some the timing of our planned flotation.
However, our intention to recovery in sales of these services in the second half.
Against float the business has not changed, and we have continued to this background, the steps we have taken this year, in cutting focus on building the basis for future success.
We are bringing costs and in re-focusing our business on target market sectors, the IFA businesses together under a new name, Sesame give us confidence that the trading performance of the Division Group, and have announced the steps that we are taking as a whole will make solid progress in the current year, to improve our offer to members, including the creation of although the effect of the near term decline in professional a single regulated entity, a new member pricing structure, services will be to defer this progress to the second half.
and a scheme to involve members in the flotation.
We believe that demand will remain good across all product Employees This has been a tough year for many of our areas in the Healthcare Division.
The drivers of growth, employees.
Less favourable markets mean harder work to particularly in spend on clinical systems, remain solidly in place achieve targets.
Organisational change and cost reduction and the US healthcare IT markets have tended to be insulated bring uncertainty and stress.
Our employees have achieved an from movements in the overall US economy.
However, there enormous amount in difficult circumstances.
On behalf of the has been some impact from weakness in the economy on Board and all the Groups shareholders I would like to extend the low end practice management systems market, and our thanks and appreciation.
this market sector may show some continued sensitivity as spending on practice management systems is displaced by Board Ross Graham, Corporate Development Director of spending on clinical systems.
The good performance we have Misys plc, has announced his intention to retire from the achieved over the past year in this Division has been partially Board on 31 December 2003. offset in our reported results by the depreciation in the value of the US dollar, which has shown continued weakness since Ross, who is 55, has agreed to remain with the Group on a the year end.
part-time basis until the end of the next calendar year.
Ross will continue as a Trustee of the Misys Pension Schemes.
The General Insurance business has a strong footing and the initiatives taken by management should lead to further Ross joined the Group as Finance Director in 1987, at the time of flotation.
I will leave it to a more suitable occasion to pay progress.
In Sesame, while we are confident that the recent tribute to his enormous contribution to the Group over the decline in RI numbers will reverse, we do not expect this to years, but suffice to say that without Ross energy, intellectual have much benefit on the business performance in the stimulus, sense of humour and tenacity, Misys would not be current year and, consequently, commission income will fall where it is today.
This will particularly affect the first half of the current year given the strong comparator numbers in the year Consequent upon Ross departure, Jasper McMahon will ended 31 May 2003.
The development of non-commission head up strategic development activities within the Group, income streams helped materially in the last year, and we with combined responsibility for Business Development and would expect the continued growth of these revenue streams Corporate Development.
partially to offset the decline in commission income.
However, As I mentioned in the interim report, we are delighted that overall we expect that the financial performance of the Dr. Jrgen Zech has joined the Group as a non-executive Director.
Financial Services Division will be somewhat below that achieved in the past year.
He brings broad experience of the financial services industry and adds to the global depth and expertise of the Board.
Taking the trading performance of the Group as a whole, we Outlook We remain convinced that bank spending on IT in expect to make further progress in the year ahead.
Given the impact on the first half from professional services revenues general, and on third party software in particular, will return and the decline in RIs, this improvement in trading performance to growth, although we are not planning for a return to more is likely to come through in the second half of the year.
buoyant conditions in the banking software markets this financial year.
Since our comments at the half year, there has been further evidence of increasing levels of activity in our target markets, leading to improved Initial Licence Fee ILF order intake levels.
Notwithstanding this, it is clear that banks are continuing to bear down on the cost of professional services and that this effect will extend beyond the downturn in licence sales.
As a result of our increased focus on Kevin Lomax professional services, following the restructuring, and in light Chairman www.
