Chairmans Statement I am pleased to be able to report that MITIEs 2003 results show a sixteenth consecutive year of profitable growth and very positive cash flow.
DAVID M TELLING CHAIRMAN I know that these positive results have only been possible because of the hard work, dedication and motivation of our people, who are achieving considerable success.
MITIE Group PLC MITIE has made Results good progress and our Support Services Turnover rose to 565.8 million, an increase of Division has had a particularly strong 9%, and profit before tax, goodwill amortisation year despite changing economic and impairment rose by 10% to 34.1 million.
conditions that have tightened our Earnings per share pre-goodwill amortisation and markets over the past twelve months.
impairment rose by 8% to 7.3p Note 7.
We Our commitment to delivering service have increased our cash balance by 29.9 million levels that enable customers to achieve to 55.0 million.
Your Board is recommending a their own objectives underpins this final dividend of 1.1p per share, making a total continuing success.
of 1.9p for the year, an increase of 19%.
Corporate Developments Development of the MITIE business model has continued strongly throughout the financial year.
We have started eight new companies.
Managed Services and Engineering Maintenance have increased their national coverage.
We have introduced our Engineering discipline into niche markets such as social housing, utilities and technology and in the South East of England, we have started a landscape business and an interior contracting business.
In January 2003, we signed our biggest ever contract, worth over 100 million.
The contract with Rolls-Royce provides opportunities for all of our businesses and is the first major example of how MITIE companies, working together, can benefit our customers on a national basis.
We have continued our strategy of reducing our exposure to capital-intensive businesses.
We sold our Access contracting companies in June 2002 and we are closing both MITIE Lindsay Ltd and MITIE HydroCat Ltd.
Since the year end, we have completed the acquisitions of Trident Safeguards Ltd, a manned guarding security company, and Eagle Pest Control Services UK Ltd.
These acquisitions will accelerate our development in markets where we see good potential.
2 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 People Outlook These positive results have only been possible MITIE has enjoyed success for over fifteen years because of the hard work, dedication and and will, I believe, deliver further profitable motivation of our people, who are achieving growth over the years to come.
The current year considerable success in difficult times.
I would has started in line with expectations and we will like to thank all of them for their efforts this year.
develop by building on the many unique qualities that MITIE can offer and by continually MITIE people understand that their own success seeking to enhance Shareholder value.
comes from satisfying their customers.
In order to achieve this, they take the time to understand The strength in depth of our management puts us their customers goals and the contribution that in a position where, even in the most challenging MITIE can make towards reaching them.
of market conditions, we are able to make progress.
We have 23,000 highly talented and Our management team has been strengthened motivated people who understand the MITIE by the appointment of Ruby McGregor-Smith philosophy of putting customers first.
Our capacity as Group Finance Director in December 2002 to deliver services nationally ensures that we are and she has already added considerable value.
well placed to benefit from the continuing trend We have also increased the number of Nontowards outsourcing and the bundling of services.
Manish J Chande was Our companies are realising significant benefits appointed in July 2002, David C Ord in October from working together and this is a trend I expect 2002 and Cullum McAlpine in April 2003. to continue.
These attributes, combined with the Between them they have a wide range of skills extra growth of our start-up companies, mean and experience that will add considerably that we are well placed for the future.
to the strength of the Board.
MITIE is known for quality in services, customers Three people who have contributed greatly to and earnings.
Your Company will remain focused MITIEs success have retired during the year.
on its core activities and continue to grow the Nigel Swiffen retired as a Non-Executive Director business by putting its customers first.
after 11 years: John Urquhart as Head of Corporate Affairs after enthusiastically David M Telling representing the Company for 10 years: and Chairman Marshall Thomas as Group Chief Accountant who joined MITIE shortly after its formation in 1987.
I thank them all for their period of loyal service and wish them well in their retirement.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 3
