02 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Chairmans statement 1 Lars Kylberg, Chairman 2 Warren Knowlton, Chief Executive Officer The year The Morgan Board People and the future This is my first statement as As he announced at the AGM, 2003 has been a period of very Chairman of your Company and my predecessor, Dr Bruce Farmer significant change for Morgan I am pleased to report that 2003 retired on 12th December 2003 and this particularly affects all of was a year in which visible after six years as Chairman and a our employees around the world.
progress was made towards our total of 22 years with Morgan.
I should like to thank them on your declared objectives of reducing Other members of the Board who behalf for their considerable efforts the complexity of the Group, resigned during the year were Bill and enthusiasm that has delivered developing a performance based Macfarlane in May and Richard Perle this years result and I look forward to culture and refocusing, in June.
The Board thanks all of them working with them in 2004. accelerating and extending our for their contributions.
Nigel Howard In a challenging year, Morgan has restructuring efforts.
retired at the end of the year and I made considerable progress but your should like to thank him for his 36 Given that the year was only the Board recognises that there is still years of distinguished service to beginning of the turnaround for much work to be done.
Nigel has held many senior Morgan, the Board has decided that for your continued support.
positions in all aspects of Morgan cash should be redeployed within during this time, most recently as Lars Kylberg the Group to areas that urgently Deputy Chief Executive during 2003 Chairman need restructuring and hence has not and as acting Chief Executive prior to 18 February 2004 declared a dividend for this year.
the appointment of Warren Knowlton The intention is to return to a policy and we will all miss his wise counsel.
of dividend payments at an appropriate time.
In October Joseph MacHale joined the Board as a non-executive Director The rights issue, announced in and he has also been appointed as February 2004, is to fund cost the Chairman of the Audit savings and profit improvement Committee.
Joseph is a Chartered opportunities of up to 50 million Accountant and has had international per annum by the end of 2006. experience with J. P. Morgan.
We The Board considered several options look forward to working with him.
to secure the programme, including increasing debt or relying on the proceeds of further disposals and considered the most prudent approach was to issue new equity.
