CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED IN MARCH 2003 WAS A HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL ONE FOR NEW LOOK.
THE GROUP HAS A STRONG FINANCIAL BASE, A RESPONSIVE AND EFFICIENT STRUCTURE AND A CLEAR STRATEGY FOR ACHIEVING ITS LONG TERM GROWTH OBJECTIVES.
Results and dividend of New Looks management skills and experience to Mim will allow us to We made substantial further progress in the financial year ended in March accelerate our plans to capitalise on its strong position in the French fashion 2003, achieving profit before tax of 85.2m, an increase of 36.8% on the value market.
Full operational control will support the introduction of New 62.3m reported in 2002.
Against the previous years 52 week proforma Looks successful strategies and techniques and result in the closer alignment profit before tax of 57.7m, the increase was 47.7%.
Our strong performance of the infrastructure, skills and supply chain of both businesses.
was driven by the combination of more trading space, a successful product offering and a reduced cost base.
Earnings per share rose to 27.9p, up 40.9% Current trading and outlook on 2002.
The Groups strategy remains on track and the business is well In the first eight weeks of the year we are up against exceptionally strong placed to continue to develop its potential.
We are therefore recommending comparatives 2002: total sales 16.3%, like for like sales 10.6%, margin a final dividend of 6.0p per ordinary share, making the total dividend for 3.1 percentage points.
Set against this, total UK sales for the eight weeks to the year 8.75p, up from 7.0p in 2002.
24 May 2003 were down by 1.2% and like for like sales fell by 6.6%.
Gross margin is down 0.2 percentage points against the same period last year.
Board and management In March 2003, we announced a restructuring of our executive management The current dominant fashion trends retail at lower average selling prices than team to strengthen our ability to take New Look forward into its next phase last years key looks.
Therefore, despite a 9% increase in unit sales, average of growth.
Phil Wrigley, our Managing Director, has taken on additional selling price decreased by 10%.
responsibility for operations, property and human resources.
Carl McPhail, formerly Operations Director, has been appointed Group Development Based on our experience in April, we had expected the unit growth to be even Director.
In this role Carl will drive the development of our French business, higher, but May proved to be a very different month.
Following a detailed and will be responsible for evaluating and taking forward other growth review we are happy with current stock levels and we will continue to monitor opportunities, including new store formats and new product categories.
this closely, taking appropriate action if required.
The next fashion trend will be in our stores in mid-July, with average selling prices broadly in line As part of our drive to ensure we are effectively organised to support future with last year.
growth, we also undertook a comprehensive review of our Head Office processes, following which we made approximately 60 redundancies, mostly We have not had a good May, but our strategy remains on track, with new from our Weymouth office.
These took effect at the end of March.
The space performing ahead of expectations and significant progress in driving Boards appreciation and thanks are due to all our staff, who addressed down costs.
the need for change with integrity and professionalism.
We believe the actions we have taken over the last three years have Mim transformed the business and will enable us to drive sustainable, long Your Board was pleased to announce on 29 May 2003 that New Look had term profit and earnings growth.
conditionally agreed to acquire the outstanding 49% shareholding in NewMim, the holding company for the Mim business in France.
This is a positive move which presents a clear opportunity to capture the further value we have identified in Mim and to drive the growth and profitability of the Group.
We had an option to acquire the remaining minority interests in 2006, but John Grieves we agreed with the Amzallag family that now was the right time to bring Mim Chairman under the full control of New Look.
Your Board believes that the application 29 May 2003 ANNUAL REPORT 2002 03 3
