NEXT PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report that NEXT continued to make good progress in the year ended January 2003.
Earnings per share rose by 18% to 68.7p and were enhanced by the beneficial effect of the share buybacks in the last two years.
Post tax return on capital employed increased to 51%.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 21p making a total of 31p for the year, an increase of 12.7%.
Dividend cover rises to 2.2 times.
My change of role within NEXT has given me the time and opportunity to take a step back from the day to day operations and review our corporate strategy.
Since the early 1990s we have resisted all attempts to increase the number of clothing brands that we operate because we were convinced that diversification would ultimately be to the detriment of the NEXT Brand.
The success that we have achieved over many years as a result of product development, the progressive move to larger stores and the increase in the number of home shopping customers convinces us that it is right to continue with this strategy.
NEXT Retail is our most visible business, but no-one should overlook the NEXT Directory which now has a turnover of almost 500m and is one of the few really profitable home shopping companies in the UK.
Our ability to generate cash enables us to continue to buy back our shares when it is in the interests of our shareholders.
This is an important part of our aim to deliver long term growth in earnings per share.
I believe that the success of NEXT is due to four main factors: Our focus on providing our customers with the product they want.
The strength and skills of a good, well motivated management team that is honest to recognise its mistakes and quick to put them right.
The support of our suppliers with whom we work in partnership to achieve good quality and value for money products.
And above all: The enthusiasm and dedication of all our employees who take great pride in the success of their company.
I would like to thank them all for their contribution to another successful year.
David Jones CBE Chairman 27 March 2003 two
