Chairmans statement Peter Blackburn Trading results were below our original plan, primarily due to disappointing Strategic priorities results in biscuits.
Progress in other key areas resulted in earnings per In a climate of intense food retailer competition, it is more important than share growth, despite tightening market conditions, disposal dilution and ever that Northern Foods leverages its scale advantages in procurement and significant cost pressures.
ensures that best practice in productivity, food technology and systems is applied throughout the group.
We are working with increasing dedication We are responding to the challenges of our market place through and effectiveness to ensure that we maximise these opportunities, and deliver determined and co-ordinated action.
We are driving operational the planned returns on our investments.
The sale of Ski and Munch Bunch improvements throughout the group, notably by a greater focus on has demonstrated our willingness to adjust our portfolio when appropriate, leveraging synergies in productivity, procurement and systems.
Specific and we will continue to examine all aspects of our business to ensure that action is being taken to stabilise and improve our performance in we focus on activities where we have a real competitive edge as the base biscuits.
We will continue to review our portfolio to ensure that we for delivering shareholder value.
concentrate on activities where we can achieve and retain competitive advantage and a strong customer franchise.
The board Following extensive changes to the non-executive directorate in 2002, we Results further improved the strength and balance of the board with the appointment Continuing sales grew by 5.0 per cent to 1,421.2 million, driven by strong of two new executive directors in January 2003.
Matthew Gribbin, 45, has progress in our Convenience chilled food operations, though total sales were been with Northern Foods for over 20 years and Howard Sims, 55, joined 2.6 per cent lower as a result of the disposal of the Ski and Munch Bunch the company in 1998 on the acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray plc, of which brands to Nestl UK in April 2002.
Underlying sales trends, excluding the he was Chief executive.
effects of divestments and currency movements, improved in the last three months of the financial year, after a slower performance in the third quarter.
Corporate social responsibility Northern Foods has a long tradition of sensitivity to social issues and of Continuing operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional supporting the disadvantaged in our society.
During the year we have taken items was up 0.5 per cent at 115.6 million, with improved results from our further steps to clarify the principles on which we conduct our relations with Convenience operations offset by a decline in Grocery as a result of our poor all our stakeholders: shareholders, employees, customers and consumers, performance in biscuits.
Dilution from disposals and the cost of the share suppliers, the communities in which we operate, and the wider environment.
buyback programme depressed profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, which was 3.5 per cent lower at 97.5 million.
Outlook The reduction in share capital, together with a lower underlying tax charge, Sales in the first seven weeks of the current year are up 7.6 per cent overall, resulted in enhanced earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and up 9.5 per cent with our five largest customers.
This strong start was and exceptional items, which improved by 6.5 per cent to 14.81 pence.
assisted by the timing of Easter and recent new business gains, although we anticipate that progress may moderate in the months ahead.
In a demanding The disposal of Ski and Munch Bunch generated a 54.0 million exceptional trading climate, we are pursuing a range of initiatives to enhance efficiencies profit, which has been partially offset by 42.6 million of reorganisation costs and returns across the group.
Action is being taken in our biscuit businesses and asset impairment.
As a result, on an FRS 3 basis, pre-tax profit increased to recover inflation, reduce costs and accelerate new product development: by 27.5 per cent to 105.8 million, and earnings per share by 61.9 per cent this is helping to arrest the trend of the second half of last year, though to 18.73 pence, compared with the previous year.
biscuit trading is expected to dampen Grocery performance in the first half.
The entire Northern Foods team shares my determination that the group Dividend and share buyback will fulfil its potential by delivering appropriate returns on our investments The board recommends an increased final dividend of 5.45 pence per and maximising the potential of our strong positions in the growing share 2002: 5.15 pence.
Together with the increased interim dividend convenience food market.
of 3.25 pence paid in March, this makes a total dividend for the year of 8.70 pence, a rise of 6.1 per cent.
We remain committed to a progressive Peter Blackburn dividend policy, taking account of the long term earnings potential and Chairman cash flow of the group.
28 May 2003 In addition, we continued to make market purchases of our shares for cancellation, acquiring a total of 36.4 million shares, representing 6.5 per cent of our equity, at a cost of 55.5 million.
This brings the total to 106.5 million since we began our share buyback programme in February 2000.
02 | Chairmans statement Northern Foods plc
