969 01-05 18 3 04 12:52 pm Page 02 Novar annual report 2003 02 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Our continued investment in new products and marketing initiatives, as well as the ongoing restructuring programme, have been important factors in achieving this resilient performance.
In markets that proved to be difficult, Novar has who, as Chief Executive of Intelligent Building achieved a solid operating performance in spite Systems, will continue to lead this business of the adverse impacts of a weak US dollar and forward.
Charles Korbell has, at his request, higher pension charges.
Operating Cash Flow, stepped down from the Board to spend more which remains a key performance indicator, has time on the Security Printing business.
miss having him as a fellow Director, though we welcome his continued high commitment to the Reported sales were broadly unchanged at Security Printing business, which has grown over 1,431m, although this represented a 2% 50% in the last ten years under his leadership.
improvement at constant currencies and including acquisitions.
Adjusted Group Operating Profits at I am very pleased that Hans Nilsson, Chief 106m 2002: 118m were some 10% below 2002, Executive of Spectris plc, has agreed to join the but grew 2% before absorbing 13m of additional Board as an independent non-executive director.
pension charges, 4m of adverse currency effects His experience, particularly within the electronic and a 3m contribution from acquisitions.
and controls industries, will be of great value to Novar in continuing its strategic focus on strong Our continued investment in new products and businesses in growth markets.
marketing initiatives, as well as the ongoing restructuring programme, have been important Gerry Murphy, after six years service, much of that factors in achieving this resilient performance.
time as a highly effective Chairman of the Audit The 2003 acquisition of Alerton building controls Committee, has left the Board.
He has been an in the US has performed well, and ahead of plan, invaluable colleague: we thank him for all his growing market share and margin.
Alerton efforts on behalf of Novar and wish him every contributed sales of 13m and operating profits success in the future.
We are pleased that Oliver of 4m.
The enhanced product and technology Stocken, formerly Finance Director of Barclays offering which this acquisition has brought to our PLC, has agreed to take on the Chairmanship of customers in the US augurs well for the future.
In many of our markets we continue to face In spite of the difficulties, Novar has made, and challenging conditions.
In particular the Telecoms continues to make, good progress in all three and Datacoms markets of Intelligent Building operating divisions.
This owes much to the efforts Systems have been hard pressed, and, whilst of our employees, who remain committed to the some recovery is expected, we have concluded it success of the business.
I thank them on behalf of would be prudent to write off 75m of goodwill my colleagues.
associated with this part of the business.
The Board is recommending an unchanged final Furthermore, with vacant office space reaching dividend of 6.6p per Ordinary share, payable on record levels in Germany last year, there appears 4 June 2004 to all shareholders on the register at to be no likelihood of an early recovery in German the close of business on 30 April 2004. commercial office construction, the key demand driver for our underfloor cable management systems.
We therefore consider it prudent to write off 18m of goodwill in this business, even though it remains in a strong, leading position in its market.
2003 has also seen a number of changes to your Sir Graham Hearne Board.
I am delighted to welcome Daniel Dayan, Chairman 969 01-05 18 3 04 12:52 pm Page 03 Novar annual report 2003 Chairmans statement continued 03 Key messages Novar has achieved a solid operating performance in spite of the adverse impacts of a weak dollar and higher pension charges.
We continue to make good progress in all three operating divisions.
This owes much to the efforts of our employees, who remain committed to the success of the business.
