04 P&O Annual Report 2003 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Results P&O Nedlloyd N. V. and will receive 215 Operating profit for 2003 was 174.7 million, million cash.
Based on the share price of 53.7 million up on the previous year 2002 Royal Nedlloyd N. V. at the close of trading 121.0 million.
There was an improvement on 2 March, the total consideration of the of 103.2 million for P&O Nedlloyd, reflecting transaction, which is subject inter alia to a much stronger rate environment for shareholder approval, can be valued at container shipping, and a good result for approximately 350 million.
P&Os 25% Ports but reduced contributions from residual shareholding will enable P&O to Ferries, which experienced tough trading participate in any further upside in the conditions, and Property because of the container shipping industry.
The new timing of development disposals.
corporate structure will give P&O Nedlloyd increased flexibility to grow and develop The interest charge for 2003 of 111.3 its position as one of the leading global million was similar to last year 2002 111.8 container shipping companies.
million, with increased borrowings more than offset by lower interest rates and the We remain committed to directing capital to impact of the weaker US dollar.
The profit the strongest growth areas of our business before tax excluding the sale of fixed assets where we have a competitive advantage and businesses was 63.4 million 2002 and exiting from or reducing investment 9.2 million.
The profit on sale of fixed elsewhere.
Over the last four years, other assets and businesses was 16.6 million major steps in the restructuring process 2002 144.9 million loss.
The tax charge have been the disposal of 650 million of was 20.8 million 2002 35.5 million.
investment property and the demerger of the cruise business, with the value of that Before exceptional items and goodwill business having subsequently increased amortisation, the earnings per 1 nominal from 2 billion to 5 billion.
Over the same of deferred stock were 12.4p 2002 1.0p period, P&O has invested approximately loss.
The basic earnings per 1 nominal of 800 million in Ports.
These steps have deferred stock were 6.5p 2002 27.1p loss.
created substantial value for P&O stockholders and created the foundation The Board recommends a final dividend for strong earnings in the years to come.
of 9.0p per 1 nominal of deferred stock which, together with the interim dividend The Company is continuing to reallocate of 4.5p, would give a total dividend for capital to its strongest growth areas, 2003 of 13.5p.
The dividend will be paid primarily through property disposals and on 2 June 2004 to deferred stockholders continued investment in Ports.
P&O is one on the register at the close of business of the worlds leading container terminal on 19 March 2004. operators with approximately half of its investment in the Asian region, which is Strategy and future dividend policy seeing the benefits of the strong growth in On 2 February 2004, P&O announced that trade, driven primarily by the economic it had achieved its key strategic objective development of China.
The Group expects of taking capital out of container shipping.
to continue to invest approximately 200 P&O Nedlloyd is in effect to become million a year in this business.
P&O will take a 25% shareholding in the new company, Royal Key announcements January May June 2003 04 Acquisition in Vancouver marks Maritime Services sale of 50% share Acquisition of major new container first venture into Canadian market in International Offshore Services.
P&O Annual Report 2003 05 Chairmans statement As was also announced on 2 February I was very pleased to welcome Nick Luff year and pressure on freight rates on 2004, the Board believes that now is the back to the Group as Chief Financial Officer the Short Sea has continued.
Further appropriate time at which to rebase the in May 2003.
Nick was our Finance Director restructuring of the business is likely.
dividend to a level consistent with the more until we demerged our Cruises business focused, higher growth business that P&O is in October 2000 when he joined P&O For our other divisions, Cold Logistics becoming and to provide the Company Princess Cruises.
His previous knowledge of continues to do well in Australasia while in with the maximum resources to take the Group has helped him to make a strong the US, competitive pressure appears to advantage of the attractive opportunities contribution since his return.
have eased slightly as growth in the market in the Ports business.
Consequently, in the during 2003 has absorbed much of the absence of unforeseen circumstances, I was also very pleased that Russ Peters surplus capacity.
P&O Nedlloyd is the Board intends to declare total dividends was appointed to the Board, in June 2003. continuing to benefit from the favourable for the year ending 31 December 2004 Russ joined P&O in 1987 and has held a supply and demand trends in the industry of 9p per 1 nominal of deferred stock, number of senior appointments in Ferries.
which are expected to last until at least with a 3p interim dividend and a 6p final He has great experience in both the ferries 2005.
In 2004, P&O is targeting property dividend.
This will give the Company greater and logistics industries.
disposals of 250 million of which 30 investment flexibility and provide the basis for million has been agreed and a further a progressive dividend policy going forward.
In 2002 we sold Contract Logistics, the 140 million is in the hands of agents.
main part of P&O Trans European.
Following Our employees have again made a strong completion of the sale, Charles Rice, who On the basis of current trading and the contribution to what has been achieved.
was Managing Director of Trans European continuing strong growth in world trade, the Inevitably, there are uncertainties in any and a Board member, left the Group.
Group should achieve a further improvement business and this is particularly true as we Charles successfully built Trans European in its operating result for 2004.
Ports in continue to re-shape the Group to maximise into a 800 million turnover business with particular should do well and steps will be shareholder returns.
As we explain more a genuinely Europe-wide network.
We wish taken to restore Ferries to profitability.
fully on pages 16 and 17, our employees him well for the future.
worldwide have risen to the challenge and the Board recognises this.
Group outlook The strong growth in volume experienced Board during 2003 in our Ports business is The Lord Sterling of Plaistow As announced at this time last year, Sir expected to continue throughout 2004, GCVO CBE Bruce MacPhail, our Group Managing particularly in Asia.
New capacity is being Chairman Director for the past 20 years, stood down introduced in Canada, China, France, India, 4 March 2004 from the Board at the end of 2003.
Sir Thailand and the UK to support this growth.
Bruce is an exceptionally able businessman Additional expansion opportunities include who made a huge contribution to P&O.
London Gateway in the UK, which is subject His enthusiasm and tireless commitment to the outcome of public inquiries, and were integral to the Groups achievements Deurganckdok in Antwerp, Belgium, where during this period.
I am pleased that we will contractual terms are currently being continue to benefit from his expertise as finalised.
he retains responsibility for developing and selling down our property portfolio.
The outlook for Ferries is difficult.
Initial trading in 2004 has seen passenger and It is with great pleasure that I welcomed tourist vehicle carryings down on the same Robert Woods as Chief Executive from the period in 2003 although rates have beginning of 2004.
The recent increases in French and has been a Board member since 1996. tobacco duty have had an impact on onHe has immense experience of ports and board sales, particularly on the Short Sea.
liner shipping and knows the Group well.
Freight carryings are also down on the prior July November December February Agreement signed to significantly Ferries propose restructuring Exit completed from bulk shipping Royal Nedlloyd to purchase P&Os 50% expand Qingdao Qianwan on Dover-Calais route plus business with sale of 50% share stake in P&O Nedlloyd Container Line.
introduction of new service of ABC.
P&O Nedlloyd to effectively become an between Portsmouth and Caen.
