Chairmans statement Ken Harvey : Chairman : Pennon Group Plc Further profitable growth in the Group was achieved, affirming the strategy of focusing on the two key businesses, South West Water Limited and Viridor Waste Limited.
South West Water has maintained its improvement in customer service, delivered further efficiencies and remains confident of outperforming the regulatory contract to 2005.
Viridor Waste shows continued growth in profits and is well placed to capitalise on its recent acquisitions.
The Board is confident prospects for the Group remain favourable.
This year the Board is proposing to re-introduce Financial overview a scrip dividend alternative to replace the Group turnover from continuing operations rose Dividend Reinvestment Plan which has been by 9.5% to 417.2 million.
This rise includes a available to shareholders in recent years.
The significant contribution by Viridor Waste and the scrip dividend alternative will enable Ofwat approved tariff increases in South West shareholders to acquire new shares issued Water.
Overall Group turnover reduced by by the Company.
6.7 million as a consequence of the disposal of Viridor Instrumentation Limited, completed in South West Water Limited February 2002.
The utility business has maintained its Profit before tax was 74.2 million, 3.2 million improvement in customer service and quality of down on 2001 02, which included an exceptional product.
The company is one of the industry profit on disposal of 5.1 million.
Underlying leaders in managing water leakage and profit before tax from continuing operations was continues to deliver results in line with Ofwats up 7.1%.
Adjusted earnings per share before mandatory leakage target.
Drinking water quality deferred tax and exceptional item increased by and river water quality are at an all time high and 3.8% to 55.0p.
the region features more miles of high quality rivers than any other region in England.
Over The Directors are recommending a final dividend 98% of the regions 140 bathing waters along of 26.5p per share which, together with the the South West coastline complied with the interim dividend of 12.6p per share, will result in European Unions mandatory standards.
In a full year cash dividend of 39.1p excluding the addition, almost 85% of the regions bathing special interim dividend referred to below an waters met the more stringent EU guideline increase of 4.3% on the total dividend for standards, the best performance of any region in 2001 02. the UK.
Independent market research carried Following the sale of Viridor Instrumentation in out amongst South West Waters customers February 2002, a special interim dividend for confirmed continued high levels of satisfaction 2002 03 of 70.0p per share was paid on with the overall service provided.
1 October 2002 out of the sale proceeds, at a cost of 95.9 million.
A share consolidation took The company remains ahead of Ofwats place on 2 September 2002 in order to maintain efficiency targets and is on track to deliver comparability of the share price both before and further efficiency savings to outperform the after the payment of the special interim dividend.
regulatory contract for the period to 2004 05.
2 Pennon Group Plc Viridor Waste Limited Strategy Viridor Waste delivered strong financial The Board will continue to focus on adding value performance.
Underlying profit growth was for shareholders.
This will be achieved by South around 10% after netting off the effect of West Water growing its regulatory asset value acquisitions and the step increase in profitability and outperforming the regulatory contract up to arising from the new renewables pricing regime.
2005 and Viridor Waste capitalising on the This was achieved despite the generally tough opportunities arising from its successful focused market conditions and reflects the success of strategy.
Board matters Three acquisitions were made during the year with a fourth completed in June 2003.
These Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield has been the reinforced the companys stated strategy of Companys Deputy Chairman for the last three capitalising on its strong position in landfill years and a Non-executive Director of Pennon disposal, exploiting opportunities in renewable for 10 years.
Both he and Mr Alan Fletcher, who energy and pursuing profitable opportunities in joined the Board in May 1993, are retiring as line with the Governments developing waste management strategy.
Non-executive Directors at the annual general meeting in July 2003.
The Board is extremely grateful for their valuable contributions during Pensions their many years of service.
Pennon Group operates a defined benefit The Board is pleased to welcome Ms Dinah pension scheme for existing staff and new Nichols, who was appointed on 12 June 2003, entrants to Pennon and South West Water and as a Non-executive Director.
for existing employees in Viridor Waste.
In line with recommendations from the scheme It is anticipated that a further Non-executive actuary, following a pension holiday for a Director will shortly be appointed by the Board.
number of years, the Group resumed paying employer contributions in 2002 03.
From 1 April Employees 2003 these have been increased to 11.5% of pensionable pay.
The pension fund position is I have been Chairman of the Group for six years being kept under review and the next triennial now and have overseen many structural and actuarial review is due in April 2004. organisational changes as the Group seeks to The Group is also putting in place a defined become more efficient and profitable.
Our contribution scheme for employees from employees have consistently provided high levels recently acquired waste companies and for new of professionalism, loyalty and commitment entrants to Viridor Waste.
My sincere thanks go to them.
of the defined contribution scheme and increased funding for the defined benefit pension scheme will have some impact on the 2003 04 results, the new scheme will reduce Viridor Wastes exposure to any further adverse movements in the defined benefit pension scheme funding position.
K G Harvey, Chairman Pennon Group Plc The Financial review provides comprehensive 26 June 2003 details of the Groups pension position.
