Chairmans statement 2003 was a year of stable quarter-on-quarter progress, continued technological innovation, and one in which the ARM architecture gained increasing global acceptance Results and dividend The board also decided at the end of 2003 right technologies to meet the expectations The decisions we took in the fourth quarter to initiate the payment of an annual dividend.
of their customers the Original Equipment of 2002 to reduce our cost base, but also We see a return of cash to shareholders Manufacturers OEMs.
It also demonstrates to maintain our high level of research and through a dividend as part of a package that consumers are more readily embracing development expenditure throughout the of measures to make the best use of the the digital world.
protracted industry downturn enabled us, businesss cash resources.
It is the boards during the year, to introduce a number of new intention to increase the dividend over Geographic expansion products based on innovative technologies and time, taking into account the opportunity for ARMs business is increasingly global.
to strengthen our position in becoming the continued investment in the business and the In 2003, the geographic source of our architecture for the digital world.
revenues illustrated the global reach of the semiconductor industry as well as our Although our full year 2003 revenues were The market role at its heart: 51% of full-year revenues down on the previous 12 months, our revenues Activity in the semiconductor industry gradually emanated from North America, 31% from in 2003 increased from the first quarter onwards.
increased as 2003 progressed, giving rise to Asia Pacific, and 18% from Europe.
On total revenues of 128.1 million, we earned improving confidence among our partners, profit before tax of 23.2 million after adjusting particularly in respect of the volume of The balance of world trade is, however, for the cost of settlement of the dispute with products shipped.
China is becoming an increasingly Herodion of 6.4 million.
Good cost control control by our partners continues to be influential player: what was traditionally an and working capital management enabled exerted and it is expected that improvements agrarian society is becoming an industrial one, us to convert this into net cash generation in licensing revenue will occur gradually during which means that its need for electronics to of 29.5 million.
In the meantime, the expansion of our use in goods that it exports, as well as in existing family of products, together with new those which it consumes domestically, is This strong cash generation, together with our products introduced in 2003, is expected to increasing rapidly.
confidence in the Groups long-term prospects, contribute to a long-term trend of improving enabled us to continue to make significant licensing revenue.
Currently most of the chips which are used in investments in technological innovation, both China are bought from our partners and are organic and through a bolt-on strategic It is encouraging to see that our partners designed around our intellectual property IP, acquisition.
shipped so many ARM core-based products in but we are establishing local relationships in the year: 782 million units, 71% more than in China as the countrys high-technology Net cash generation is the movement in cash and short-term 2002.
This gives us confidence that we are industry matures and its companies begin to investments as per the balance sheets at the beginning and providing our semiconductor partners with the develop their own IP.
We have been working end of the year.
4 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 with companies in China for a number of year.
Our employees responded magnificently our royalty revenues, give us confidence that years: we set up our first office, in Shanghai, to the challenge and achieved a lot while this will be another successful year and in July 2002.
In 2004, we plan to open a under tight cost constraint.
We were delighted that we will enjoy a return to revenue growth.
to welcome 25 new employees to ARM with Many challenges lie ahead, however, and the the acquisition of Adelante Technologies N. V. continuing weakness of the US dollar against During 2003, we signed seven licences in now ARM Belgium N. V. in July 2003. sterling will have an impact.
China, not only with semiconductor companies but also with foundries and universities.
Board changes Notwithstanding these challenges, we Watertek became the first ARM Approved Lawrence Tesler will be retiring from the board are confident that the platform we have Training Centre in China in January: we at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April established over the past 13 years, together extended our University Programme when 2004, having served two three-year terms with the passion and commitment of our Southeast University licensed the ARM7TDMI as a non-executive director.
With his strong employees, and the work of our partners, core in May, and when Shanghai Jiaotong technology background and industry leave us well placed to benefit as the University licensed the ARM922T core in experience, he has made a significant digital world gathers pace.
December: we signed our first licensing deal contribution over the past six years, which with a Chinese government-supported the board has greatly appreciated.
organisation, Shanghai ICC, in May: in July we extended our Foundry Programme when It is intended that Jeremy Scudamore who is we signed an agreement with SMIC: Datang CEO of Avecia Group formerly the specialty licensed the ARM946E microprocessor core in chemicals business of Zeneca be appointed Sir Robin Saxby Chairman September, and in December, Shanghai Fudan as a non-executive director of the Company Microelectronics licensed the ARM7TDMI core.
immediately following the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2004.
He has considerable Many entrepreneurial and innovative ventures international business experience and will are emerging in other markets.
ARM is bring a broad range of skills to the board that working to help these companies as they seek extend beyond the semiconductor industry.
the right technology to achieve time-to-market and time-to-volume advantage.
We have Current trading and prospects signed a number of licences in Israel within We enter 2004 with confidence.
Our business the last two years and expect to announce continues to make good profits and to generate more licences during 2004.
In addition, we cash throughout the toughest downturn that are increasingly active in India, where many our industry has witnessed for many years.
We engineers have experience of working with continue to invest in innovation and in products our technology.
We believe that, as the industry emerges from the downturn, our competitive People position is stronger than it was before.
We made a conscious decision at the outset of 2003 that, excluding acquisitions, we would The number of new products available for keep our headcount stable throughout the licensing in 2004, and the momentum behind ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 5
