Premier Farnell plc Chairmans statement Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 Overview Financial results Chairmans statement Market share gains and some Group sales for the year were large customer contract wins 759.0 million 2002: 806.4 million attest to a year of achievement reflecting the tough market in difficult economic circumstances.
conditions, although on a sales per Markets for the most part, remained day basis the Groups businesses slow particularly in North America returned to year on year growth in but, despite this, we have continued the second half of the year and were to improve our ability to service up 2.8 per cent in the fourth quarter.
Gross margins Profit before tax and goodwill have been maintained and costs amortisation and loss on disposal tightly controlled, so that net margins of businesses was 67.2 million have remained robust while working 2002: 72.5 million, with adjusted capital has continued to be closely earnings per share of 11.2 pence managed.
We have gained major financial Statutory profit before tax was benefits through the capital 59.8 million 2002: 60.0 million restructuring announced in April and basic earnings per share were 2002, including increased earnings 9.3 pence 2002: 4.6 pence.
per share and dividend cover, improved cash flow of 9 million The Board is recommending a final for this and future years, reduced dividend of 5 pence 2002: 5 pence, financial gearing and a more making a total for the year of 9 pence balanced capital structure.
The dividend is covered 1.1 times.
The final dividend We have developed comprehensive is payable on 25th June 2003 to skills to capitalise on the accelerating shareholders on the register on demand by major companies to 30th May 2003. improve the effectiveness of their indirect materials procurement and Strategic progress inventory management.
These skills The Group has continued to have opened access to large execute its strategy of forging customers and we are achieving closer relationships with customers significant success which would by understanding and satisfying previously have been beyond our their needs.
There remains significant strengthened its competitive position potential to gain market share and the in all its major territories by improving Group is in a strong position for further performance and introducing new progress when markets improve.
products and added value services.
Work has been focused on winning additional sales in the absence of any help from the market.
This has been achieved through concentrating on improving operational effectiveness and increasing share by targeting specific market segments.
Closer customer relationships are being built using the newly installed customer relationship management software.
Added value services are helping customers increase their own productivity and reduce the overall cost of indirect material procurement.
Evidence of the success of this strategy is demonstrated by the agreements signed with Vauxhall, Lockheed Martin and the US Government in 2002 and Rolls-Royce in March of this year.
Premier Farnell plc Chairmans statement Annual Report and Accounts 2003 5 Business portfolio Staff Early in the year, the Group sold On behalf of the Board, I particularly D-A Lubricants, the specialist oil wish to thank all our employees blending business based in for their hard work and commitment Indianapolis.
This resulted in a loss during what has been another before tax on the disposal of challenging year.
It is their 4.9 million, including 2.6 million of determination and effort that has goodwill previously eliminated against resulted in the quality of the Groups reserves.
businesses being further enhanced and it is the reliability and Buck & Hickman, the leading UK resourcefulness of our employees distributor of tools and industrial which encourages our customers products, acquired in July 2001, to buy repeatedly from the Group.
has been successfully integrated into the Group.
The Buck & Hickman We have pleasure in welcoming product range and its expertise in William Korb to the Board as a vendor managed inventory services Non-Executive Director.
Mr Korb, both contributed to the Group being a US citizen, was President and awarded important supply contracts CEO of Gilbarco Incorporated, by Vauxhall and Rolls-Royce.
the leading manufacturer of retail petrol pumps, from 1988 to 1999.
The Groups principal Balance sheet He is a non-executive director of businesses have secured In April 2002, the Company Cambrex Corporation, which is announced a special right, listed on the NYSE.
market share gains against for a limited period, for Preference Shareholders to convert their Outlook a background of harsh Cumulative Redeemable Preference The Groups principal businesses Shares into Ordinary Shares, have secured market share gains economic and industry at an enhanced conversion rate.
against a background of harsh This resulted in 70 per cent of the economic and industry conditions.
Companys Preference Shares This progress has been supported being converted and 89.8 million by important initiatives in many areas, new Ordinary Shares, arising from including customer eProcurement the conversion, were issued.
arrangements, vendor managed The conversion has resulted in inventory installations, increased increased earnings per share and product ranges, improved service reduced financial gearing.
It has also levels and geographic expansion.
improved cash flow by more than 9 million this year, enhanced The Group has further enhanced its dividend cover and provided a more proposition to customers during the balanced capital structure.
year, enabling them to increase productivity.
Notwithstanding the The Companys borrowings include global political and economic outlook $155 million 7.0 per cent Senior and the lack of confidence in major Notes, repayable in June 2003. industrial markets, the Board remains In anticipation of this repayment, confident that it is pursuing the the Company has secured additional appropriate strategy.
funding, to be drawn in June 2003, of $225 million, comprising $159 million Senior Notes payable 2013 at an effective interest rate of 5.9 per cent and $66 million Senior Notes payable 2010 at an effective interest rate of 5.3 per cent.
The additional funds will be used to repay other loans.
This refinancing, at investment grade interest rates, Sir Malcolm Bates demonstrates the financial Chairman soundness of the Group.
