co. uk Chairmans Statement The Group has now completed its fundamental repositioning and we have made substantial progress towards our vision to be recognised as the leading transport services organisation in Europe.
I am pleased to report another year of significant progress, with the Group delivering a strong financial performance.
We have continued to build our position in mainland Europe, with turnover of 425 million and over 10,000 employees.
Arriva has a material presence on the Continent, where there are significant and growing opportunities as the bus and rail markets move increasingly to competitive tendering.
We have completed the successful repositioning of Arriva with the disposal of our remaining motor retail franchises whilst at the same time establishing our long-term position in the UK rail sector with the 15-year Wales and Borders franchise.
Arriva is one of the largest bus operators in the UK and our London business in particular has grown significantly in the past year.
Our Vehicle Rental business further strengthened its position in the UK.
The Group has a strong cash flow enabling us to invest to create value through both organic and acquisitive growth whilst maintaining a progressive dividend policy and share buyGareth Cooper back programme.
Chairman 6 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
co. uk Turnover from continuing operations A further 3 per cent of the issued share Arriva completed the disposal of its Motor increased by nearly 15 per cent to capital was purchased for cancellation during Retail operations in July 2003.
Since September 2000, when Arriva process, which commenced in October 2002, Total Group turnover was 1,751 million commenced its share buy-back programme, realised approaching 70 million for the 2002: 2,084 million and total a total of 94.2 million has been returned Group, broadly in line with both book value operating profit was 105.2 million to shareholders.
and our expectations at the beginning of 2002: 108.8 million, the reduction mainly the process.
reflecting the disposal of the Motor Retail Earnings per share excluding exceptional operations.
Pre-tax profit increased by items and goodwill amortisation was Our London bus operations continue to reap 4 per cent to 83.8 million 36.0 pence 2002: 36.8 pence, slightly lower the benefits of our substantial investment 2002: 80.6 million.
due to the dilutive effect of the Motor Retail over the last three years.
We expect to see disposal.
Basic earnings per share was continuing growth in the London market as The financial position was strengthened 28.7 pence 2002: 38.0 pence, last years the population rises, with demographics by an increase in operating cash inflow figure reflecting an exceptional tax credit indicating an increase of nearly half a million of 6 per cent from 224.1 million to of 24 million.
We are committed to 236.8 million with EBITDA earnings growing our business across the UK by before interest, tax, depreciation, goodwill A final dividend of 13.4 pence per share is encouraging more passengers to travel by amortisation and exceptional items recommended by the Board, which together bus.
Our strategy of increased marketing, increasing from 209.1 million in 2002 to with the interim dividend of 4.6 pence per use of technology, the development of 216.6 million, and net debt reduced from share paid in October 2003, makes a total partnerships with local authorities and 310.1 million to 296.7 million.
There was dividend of 18.0 pence per share, an increase improved customer service is already a corresponding reduction in the debt to of 5 per cent.
The final dividend will be paid on producing results and will be the key to equity ratio from 68 per cent to 63 per cent.
4 May 2004 to all shareholders on the Register driving this business forward.
The interest charge for the year was at the close of business on 2 April 2004.
17.0 million 2002: 17.1 million representing an interest cover, excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, of over six times, comparable to 2002.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7 www.
co. uk Chairmans Statement continued Mainland Europe offers exciting opportunities for growth in both bus and rail, as the markets there increasingly open up to private sector competition.
The successful bid for the Wales and Borders In August 2003, Arriva exercised its option brings Arrivas rigorous business processes and franchise firmly established Arrivas long-term to purchase the remaining 49 per cent of control to all of our operations.
In each country position in UK rail with a 15-year franchise Transportes Sul do Tejo TST from the they are supported by local management generating turnover forecasted at some Barraqueiro Group in Portugal, having acquired teams who understand the specific culture and 200 million per annum.
We commenced a controlling interest in June 2002, making market dynamics and work in partnership with operations on 7 December and the franchise Arriva one of Portugals largest bus operators.
local authorities to offer customers the best has started well.
The Board is firmly committed We also took full ownership of NoordNed, integrated transport solutions.
to building our position and capitalising on the the train and bus joint venture that we had growth opportunities in the UK rail sector.
established with NS Rail in the Netherlands Our Vehicle Rental division continues to in 1999.
Over the past five years, Arriva has perform well with underlying rental income Mainland Europe offers exciting opportunities built substantial positions in the Netherlands, up to 51.6 million 2002: 48.7 million.
for growth in both bus and rail, as the Denmark, Portugal and Italy with smaller Last year brought considerable change to markets there increasingly open up to private positions in Spain and Sweden.
We continue the business, with the completion of the sector competition.
In January 2003, we to evaluate further opportunities in mainland separation from Motor Retail and commenced operation of the first major Europe to deliver growth through targeted investment in new sites, so the orderly passenger rail franchise to be awarded by acquisitions and winning new business.
transition and increased turnover represent the Danish State to a private sector operator.
Initial handover issues were quickly resolved The European bus and rail market and the business has achieved performance is estimated to be worth around 70 billion and customer satisfaction bonuses in every EU statistics: 2000.
Arriva has developed a quarter since April.
recognised expertise in the mainland European market and has a proven track record of delivering quality services.
We have a strong international management team, which 8 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
co. uk Following the disposal of the Motor Retail The Group has now completed its business, John Ray, executive director fundamental repositioning and we have made responsible for the business, resigned from substantial progress towards our vision to be the Board after 30 years with the Group.
The recognised as the leading transport services sale represented an outstanding achievement organisation in Europe.
Our strong balance by John who managed the process to ensure sheet and solid cash flow give us the flexibility value for our shareholders whilst recognising to seek organic and acquisitive growth and to the needs of the 2,000 employees in the create long-term value for our shareholders.
The Board also saw the departure of Euan Cameron, the executive director I would like to record the Boards responsible for UK Trains, who retired in appreciation and thanks to all our December 2003, having helped to establish employees whose efforts have contributed Arrivas long-term position in the UK rail to the Groups development.
We wish them both well and thank them for their commitment and contribution to the Group.
In October 2003, we welcomed Simon Batey, finance director of United Gareth Cooper Utilities PLC, who joined the Board as Chairman a non-executive director.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 9
