3 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc Chairmans Statement Dear fellow shareholder Our capital structure is highly efficient, Results combining our equity with long-term fixed The financial results reflect the continued rate finance which provides enhanced returns strong growth in all aspects of the business.
Proceeds from the flotation Key figures are: of the Company, together with cash generated Turnover of 429m, a growth of 10% from our organic business in the year Operating profit of 227m, a growth continued to provide us with ample capital of 12% to make acquisitions.
Profit before tax for the year of 113m, a growth of 22% People Earnings per share of 39.3p, a growth At the beginning of the year we took the of 44% opportunity to consolidate all of our officebased staff in our new headquarters in The growth in earnings per share reflects the Burton upon Trent.
During the year we have significant benefits of tax losses held within continued to focus on maintaining the most the Company.
On a pre-tax basis, growth in efficient management structure possible whilst earnings per share was 22%.
Once again the Company attracting further talented people to the business.
Following the move of Giles Thorley The Companys business model has remained has fully delivered the into the position of Chief Executive, he has consistent for a number of years and will continued to strengthen the team with the expected results, highlighting continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
appointment of Adrian Fawcett as Chief Namely, to focus on organic growth of the the continued virtue of the Operating Officer, in August of this year.
pub estate through effective recruitment of Francis Patton became Customer Services Companys straightforward high quality pub operators: training and Director, reflecting the desire of the Company support: capital investment in our outlets: and business model which to continue to improve its retailer relations.
the continued development and extension of preferential supply arrangements for our pubs.
focuses on organic and Post year end activity Building on this excellent performance for the acquisition growth from its In our constant like-for-like estate, comprising year just finished, we have undertaken two 90% of our outlets, organic turnover growth high quality leased and transformational activities since the year end.
of 2.6% led to growth in pub contribution of The refinancing programme was completed tenanted pub estate.
This was achieved by continued as reported in the Financial Review, which progress in all our operational areas, including: lowered the cost of debt and raised 265m Recruitment of retailers, with 1,348 retailers to support future acquisitions.
This was Phil Cox now on our Growth Lease.
Chairman followed by the acquisition, subject to Training, with over 700 retailers participating shareholder approval, of the Pubmaster in our award-winning training programme business of over 3,100 pubs for 1,193m.
Both these activities are earnings enhancing Improving our pubs through capital and position the Company for future growth.
investment, 539 value adding development The financial year to 23 August 2003 has schemes progressed in the year.
continued the strong development of the Company from its creation in 1998 and since Every year we continue to increase the its flotation in May of last year.
The Company number of our acquisitions.
And this year is has grown steadily from the original acquisition no exception, adding 283 new pubs in the of some 1,400 pubs from Bass to the position year including packages from Spirit Group, today with in excess of 4,500 pubs spread Phil Cox Honeycombe Leisure and Greene King throughout Great Britain.
Once again the Chairman together with the purchase of Conquest Inns.
Company has fully delivered the expected These acquisitions have all been integrated results, highlighting the continued virtue of into our estate and are already earning strong the Companys straightforward business returns.
We continue to see good acquisition model which focuses on organic and opportunities.
acquisition growth from its high quality leased and tenanted pub estate.
