Chairmans Statement Randgold Resources is a driven business: driven to create value, driven to generate returns.
It does not shrink from a challenge, nor is it content to mark time.
04 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources... return driven Total Shareholder Return vs HSBC Global Gold Index he theme of this years annual report is The Next Big Step in Africa, which is a description of our progress as well as a Tstatement of our intent.
As Randgold Resources record shows, it is a Company that has advanced rapidly but steadily, step by carefully calculated step.
And as it has also demonstrated, it does not shrink from a challenge, nor is it content to mark time.
Randgold Resources is a driven business: driven to create value, driven to generate returns.
This report details how far that drive has brought us to date, and where we are going from here.
The review period has again been a productive time for the Company, culminating in the decision to proceed with the development of a new gold mine at Loulo in Mali.
There were many other highlights: The share price rose substantially and - while there is still value to be unlocked relative to our peers - it appears that market confidence in our prospects and our ability to realise them is increasing.
Market capitalisation and trading volumes grew to levels where they qualified Randgold Resources for inclusion in the FTSE 250 and membership of this prestigious index has also contributed to our rerating by investors.
The balance sheet continued to strengthen and at the year-end our cash reserves had been built up to more than US$100 million while our debt was negligible.
This obviously provides us with a potent springboard for further growth.
In line with our commitment to organic growth, we continued to invest significantly in exploration and development.
Our footprint now extends from the east coast of Africa to the west, with operations ranging from grassroots exploration to advanced projects.
Another major event of the year was, of course, our bid for Ashanti.
While ultimately not successful, it was not an unproductive exercise.
It clearly demonstrated Randgold Resources ability to compete effectively at the highest international level, with a management team that not only has exploration and operational skills but also a high level of corporate competence.
It also signalled the scope and seriousness of our growth ambitions.
ast years activities took place against a backdrop of an upward trend in the gold market.
In my previous chairmans statement, for Lthe year 2002, I noted that there were a number of factors which were likely to have a positive effect on our business and the gold industry in general.
Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources 05 This has indeed been the case and in 2003 gold prices producers have greatly reduced the practice of selling were mainly above the US$350 oz level and at, or above gold forward, which in the past exercised a downward US$400 for the last quarter.
Despite these relatively high pressure on the price.
prices, demand has remained buoyant, particularly in India, which consumes over 20% of the world supply.
This is not the whole story, however.
Producer currencies and gold are entwined in many ways, and the South Golds recovery as a major investment medium has a African and Australian gold miners have had their margins number of fundamental causes.
The strong correlation of tightly squeezed by the strengthening of their local gold with the euro:dollar cross rates has highlighted its role currencies against the dollar.
This, coupled with high as money, while the continuing weakness of the US prices for diesel and other consumables, has placed currency has been good for the dollar gold price.
In much of the industry under cost pressure, with average addition, new products enabling investors to trade the metal on international stock exchanges have been total cash costs increasing by some US$30 oz over the introduced in London and Australia.
06 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003 Gold price gainst this background, the industrys investment in exploration and development has generally been very limited over the past Ayear.
Companies have raised a great deal of new equity, but this has largely been used to restructure and strengthen balance sheets, and not to replace the ounces that are being mined out.
Consolidations and acquisitions look set to continue, but as we have noted before, at best these merely unlock value.
Value is only created through organic growth, which is why Randgold Resources has unwaveringly maintained its focus on discovering and developing fresh opportunities.
Today, thanks to this sustained effort, we have a sound operation in Morila, a new mine at Loulo scheduled to go into production next year, a pre-feasibility project at Tongon, and a pipeline of very promising exploration plays.
In addition, the enduring state of flux in the worldwide gold industry is generating interesting opportunities that we are examining closely at the corporate level.
All in all, we are looking at the coming year and beyond with keen anticipation, confident that we are capable of sustaining our profitable growth momentum.
As we indicated at the year end, the Board has decided to clear the way for dividend payments to start by expunging accumulated losses through the share premium account.
The Board has also decided to enhance liquidity by way of a share split.
Both these are subject to approval by our shareholders and the regulatory authorities.
During the year, David Ashworth, Brett Kebble and more recently Ferdinand Lips retired from the Randgold Resources board.
Each of them made an invaluable contribution to the Company, particularly in its challenging formative years, and I thank them for the guidance they gave us and the personal effort they put into building this business.
Bernard Asher has been elected as the senior independent non-executive director to strengthen our presence in the London market.
My collegues on the Board were, as ever, an invaluable source of counsel and clear perspective, and I thank them for their contribution.
A special word of appreciation is due to Mark Bristow and his team for another great performance at the corporate as well as the operational level.
Every member of that team embodies the passion that characterises this Company.
Finally, as ever, our thanks go to our shareholders and our stakeholders - notably the governments and people of the countries where we operate - for their continued support during the year.
Roger Kebble Chairman Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources 07
