CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Board of Directors I am very pleased to present my first report to 30 Since the last Annual Report, Dr Hkan Mogren shareholders as Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser 28.0 has retired as Chairman of the Company, and Dieter 25 following another year of strong performance.
25.5 25.5 Meuderscheid has resigned as a Non-Executive Our Company has consistently delivered superior 20 Director.
I thank them both for their contribution to total shareholder returns relative to the market the Companys success.
and to our own industry peer group since its 15 creation in 1999.
I welcome two new members of the Board, both 10 joining as independent Non-Executive Directors.
2003 Results, Dividend and Cash Return Judith Sprieser joined in August and Kenneth 5 Programme Hydon joined in December.
Both bring considerable The results of the Company were very strong and experience and will, I am sure, make a significant at the top end of the industry peer group.
Net contribution to the Board and the Company.
01 02 03 revenues rose by 7% at constant exchange rates DIVIDEND PER SHARE pence 7% at actual exchange rates while net income During the year the Board has held reviews of rose by 20% to 489m.
Corporate Governance at the Company, in the 2.5 light of the new requirements of the Combined 2.5 In August 2003, the Company announced its Code, and of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR.
2.3 intention to return surplus cash to shareholders The results of both reviews are reported and 2.0 through a progressive dividend policy and a rolling reflected later in this annual report, in the 1.8 share buy back programme.
Both of these have Directors Report and in the section on CSR.
The interim dividend was increased by 10%, and the Directors propose that the final is Outlook 1.0 increased by 9% giving a total for the year of 28 Reckitt Benckiser has a clear vision and strategy to pence a share, an overall increase of 10%.
Dividend generate value for shareholders through sustained 0.5 cover is 2.5 times, in line with the average for our growth in net revenues, profits and cash flow.
industry peer group and consistent with the clearly Delivering on this vision requires a committed and articulated policy at the time of the merger.
experienced management team aligned behind 0 01 02 03 This dividend, if approved at the Annual General the Companys objectives and sharing in the DIVIDEND COVER Meeting, will be paid on 27 May 2004 to Companys winning culture.
Our Chief Executive times adjusted shareholders on the register on 5 March 2004.
Officer, Bart Becht and his team remain very committed to delivering further strong growth, At the same time, the Company has commenced building on the track record since the creation of its rolling share buy back programme, and had the Company in 1999. repurchased 2 million shares by the year end.
It is the Companys intention to continue with this Appreciation programme through 2004.
I believe shareholders owe much to the dedication of all the people at the Company, and on our behalf The Annual General Meeting I congratulate Bart and his Reckitt Benckiser team The agenda for the Annual General Meeting on on an outstanding performance and thank them for 13 May 2004 contains the normal resolutions their hard work.
I also thank the Board for their seeking adoption of the accounts, approval of the wise counsel and dedicated commitment during the final dividend, the remuneration policy, re-election year.
Finally we all thank you, the shareholders, for of Directors and re-appointment of auditors.
It will your continuing support of the Company.
also seek renewed authority to repurchase the Companys shares in line with the programme already in place.
The Board hopes that shareholders will continue to endorse the Companys policies that are proving so successful.
Adrian Bellamy Chairman 2 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003
