CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Redrow has had a record year, with profit before tax The key drivers in generating such returns continue to be exceeding the significant milepost of 100m.
Our our determination to generate margins and return on confidence in the full years profitability at the time of our capital employed at the upper end of our industrys interim results has been confirmed with profit before tax performance.
Operating margins within Redrow Homes of 106.1m and as a consequence it is proposed that the have increased during the year reaching 19.0% in the 23.8% increase in the interim dividend will be matched by second half to yield an annual margin of 18.7%, compared a corresponding increase in the final dividend.
Our return on capital employed has the support, skills and commitment of our employees, also risen to 31% for the year.
This efficient and prudent sub-contractors and suppliers, this would not have been management of our capital has enabled us to invest further possible and we are grateful to them for their contribution in our owned land bank and in increasingly complex city in achieving these results.
centre and mixed use schemes without any significant change in our level of borrowings.
Indeed the Groups The Board remains firmly of the view that delivering gearing has fallen further from 39.0% to 30.9%.
increasing shareholder value should be the businesss core Robert B Jones Chairman strategy and once again I can report strong progress in this Building high quality homes for a broad range of regard.
In addition to the increased dividend, earnings per customers continues to be the central focus of the share have increased this year by 21.8%.
The Homes Divisions record year has taken Redrow has had a record year, with profit before tax exceeding the significant milepost of 100m.
4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT completions to 4,031, at an average selling price of 147,900, generating a turnover approaching 600m.
The location, pricing and styling of these homes continue to be balanced across the Group, to avoid excessive exposure to particular markets.
Since 2000 we have implemented a number of measures aimed at developing the synergies between the various ranges of our products, culminating in the recent announcement of a new housing range.
Our markets are the theatres of substantial change, economically, socially and in terms of planning policy.
It is therefore appropriate that we should be committed to a process of continuous refinement in what we have to offer, harnessing together the individuality of development tailored to its location and seeking the benefits of consistent elements within those developments, to generate further improvements in build quality and efficiency.
Such an approach depends both on people and build processes and in both regards there have been significant initiatives aimed at underpinning the quality and reputation of the Company.
Left Bewick Court, Compton, Wolverhampton Centre 51,000 sq.
ft. distribution warehouse at Western Approach, Severnside, Bristol Right Northcroft Lodge, Cheltenham CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 5 Our joint venture with Corus, Framing Solutions, is aimed with the appointment of Neil Fitzsimmons to the position mixed use developments, the more efficient use of land at securing the efficiency and quality of system building of Group Managing Director with David Arnold becoming through higher density schemes and were significant without losing the traditional feel of our developments.
our new Group Finance Director.
Rhiannon Walker brownfield developers long before such approaches became I am pleased to report that the joint venture is performing stepped down from the role of Company Secretary after fashionable.
We have also benefited immensely from in line with expectations and early developments within sixteen years and has been succeeded by Graham Cope.
our attention to forward land.
As a result, our first class the Group justify the confidence we have in its part of our Bob Williams will also be standing down as a land and planning teams continue to deliver excellent future.
Equally, competent, well-trained and effective Non-Executive Director at the forthcoming Annual opportunities.
Our current land bank with planning has people lie at the heart of our achievements.
Significantly General Meeting on 5 November.
May I take this now risen to 14,000 plots with a further 2,000 plots under we have now invested in a new training centre at Tamworth, opportunity to thank both Rhiannon and Bob for their contract at various stages in the planning system and over which will enable a wide range of courses to be provided, important contribution to Redrow over the years.
8,000 plots allocated in draft or adopted local plans.
ensuring that our employees are equipped to continue to Land continues to be what we regard as our Crown Jewels.
Of importance in the continued growth of Redrow is our play their part in driving the business forward.
Within an increasingly complex planning system, Commercial operation, which in addition to contributing In recognition of the contribution of all employees to the bedevilled by delays at every stage, there is undoubtedly 3.0m of operating profit this year, ensures that we have performance of Redrow we have widened our bonus a premium for those most able to work within it.
Redrow the necessary expertise to project manage the complex scheme arrangements to now embrace all employees.
In prides itself on anticipating, rather than following, In the City schemes and identify mixed use and change of addition we have further strengthened the Executive team developments in planning policy.
We were pioneers in use land opportunities.
6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Looking forward, Redrow is in an excellent position.
Forward sales have increased to 304m, a rise of 39.4%.
Redrow owns or controls all the land required for development in the next two years, and a very substantial proportion of that required for three years time.
Our products continue to be valued by our very varied base of customers and we have implemented changes in staff training and in building methods, which will underpin both our quality and our control of developments.
Against a background of a stable housing market, a continuing under-supply of new homes and pent-up aspiration to home ownership, I remain confident that Redrow will go from strength to strength.
Robert B Jones Chairman Far left Abbots Wynd, Falkirk Centre Stonemead, Stalybridge Left Odyssey, London Docklands Right The Courtyard, Widnes CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 7
