Annual report 2003 Chairmans statement Trading Appointment of non-executive directors I am pleased to report that the improvement in trading The Board is pleased to report that two additional nonconditions anticipated at the half year has continued executive directors were appointed to the Board on 1st July throughout the second half.
2003: David Snowden FCA aged 66 was a partner at KPMG for 25 years, latterly acting as senior partner to KPMG in Turnover for the year totalled 110.6m, compared with South Wales.
He retired from KPMG in 1993 and has 104.5m in 2002.
At the previous year's exchange rates, subsequently been a non-executive director and corporate turnover would have been 2.9m higher at 113.5m.
Strong adviser to a number of companies.
Terry Garthwaite FCA growth was experienced in the Asean region and Japan and aged 56 spent 4 years at Price Waterhouse in London before in Central and Eastern Europe where the Group has been working for Foseco Minsep plc and then joining engineering concentrating its recent marketing focus.
All product divisions group, Senior plc, as Group Finance Director.
Since leaving showed growth over the previous year, in particular, Laser Senior in 2000, he has been providing consultancy services scale, Encoders and Spectroscopy products.
whilst working with the Princes Trust and the Support Operating profit for the year ended 30th June 2003 was Group of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 15.6m, an increase of 16% over the previous year.
Profits They have both been appointed to the audit committee after tax amounted to 14.3m 2002 15.2m, after reflecting where Terry is chairman and the remuneration and a more normalised tax rate following release last year of tax nomination committee where David is chairman.
John Deer provisions no longer required.
Earnings per share were 19.7p and Ben Taylor have stepped down from the audit committee 2002 20.9p.
which now comprises only non-executive directors.
The Group has maintained its customary high level of liquidity with cash balances of 37.2m 2002 35.7m.
Research and development Total research and development expenditure and associated Manufacturing engineering costs during the year amounted to 20.2m of Investment in the Groups manufacturing and assembly which research and development amounted to 14.2m.
The first phase of the transfer of This compares with the total research and development assembly activities and finished goods stores to our site at and associated engineering costs of 19.4m in 2002.
Arising Woodchester has been successfully concluded.
Phase 2 from our R&D programme a number of new products have development will begin in August this year which will enable continued to be introduced.
During the year for example, the the transfer of the Machine Shop to Woodchester from Procera Piccolo tooth scanner has been both successfully New Mills.
developed for and sold to Nobel Biocare for the dental market.
In addition, the forthcoming EMO Exhibition in Milan will see the official launch of a number of new products for Marketing the machine tool market.
The Group has continued its strategy of overseas market development and enhancing service to customers.
New subsidiaries have been established in Canada, Israel, Austria and Sweden, the latter two already having commenced trading.
During the year, offices have been purchased in Brazil, Sweden and South Korea, with a new office block in Japan acquired since the year end.
Our Russian subsidiary has recently moved into new Moscow offices: our Spanish subsidiary is due to move into new offices in Barcelona.
The Group has attended over 100 exhibitions, tradeshows and seminars throughout the world, the largest number attended by the Group in any one year.
The Renishaw website has been further developed and extended, with in excess of two thirds of a million visitors each year.
A Nobel Biocare advertisement 6 The Procera Piccolo.
Mercedes-Ilmor During the year Renishaw was pleased to renew its technical partnership with Mercedes-Ilmor Limited, supplier of championship winning Formula One race engines to Mercedes-Benz.
The renewed arrangement aims to continue the successes of the earlier agreement entered into between The QC10 ballbar allows Mercedes-Ilmor When a fully comprehensive calibration of Renishaw and Ilmor Engineering rapidly to check that their machines are a machine tool is required, Mercedes-Ilmor performing to specification before undertaking relies on the superior accuracy of Renishaws Limited in November 1999.
a change of ownership in December 2002, when Mercedes-Benz took a majority shareholding in Ilmor, and a rationalisation of its technical partnership programme, the newly named Mercedes-Ilmor decided to maintain the partnership with Renishaw as a result of the positive contribution made by Renishaw products to Mercedes-Ilmors manufacturing operations.
Renishaw will continue as the sole Strain-gauge technology used in Renishaws Renishaws non-contact tool setting supplier of probing systems and MP700 inspection probe, gives Mercedessystems are used by Mercedes-Ilmor to machine tool performance testing Ilmor the accuracy that they require in check for tool breakage during critical automating set-ups on their high-precision machining operations.
products with an increased focus machine tools.
on the field-testing of Renishaws innovative metrology products at Mercedes-Ilmors main manufacturing site in Northamptonshire, UK.
Together, Mercedes-Ilmor, MercedesBenz and McLaren have now won 33 Formula One Grands Prix.
Above left: Sir David McMurtry with Hans-Ulrik Maik, Mercedes-llmors Managing Director, signing the latest partnership agreement.
Above centre and right: Mercedes-llmors manufacturing facilities at Brixworth, Northamptonshire, UK.
Right: Mercedes-Benz FO110M engine used to power Team McLaren Mercedes in the 2002 Formula One World Championship.
7 Annual report 2003 Chairmans statement continued Capital expenditure Personnel Capital expenditure of 8.2m includes investment in new In a further demanding year, particularly following the recent plant and machinery and further development of the Groups downturn, I must give a special mention to the staff throughout IT management information systems and R&D design tools, the Group without whom Renishaws achievements would compared with 8.9m in the previous year.
Prospects and dividend We have ended the year with trading conditions continuing to improve.
There are some signs of more buoyant activity in the world economy, we have a number of new markets to develop and a number of new product introductions.
Cost controls remain strong with recruitment mainly confined to areas of extra investment and new markets.
We remain confident of the Groups longer term continuing progress.
Your board proposes a final dividend of 11.36p per share, giving a total for the year of 16.70p, an increase of 5% over that for 2002.
Sir David R McMurtry CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng Chairman and Chief Executive 23rd July 2003 Engineering costs Capital expenditure Shareholders funds Other Land and buildings Research and development Plant and vehicles % of sales m % of m m sales 20.2 19.4 20 18.4 40 12 11.7 109.3 107.7 105.2 10.7 97.1 9.6 14.7 85.0 8.9 15 30 9 8.2 12.2 10 20 6 5 10 3 8 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Lindisfarne Gospels The British Library contains one of the worlds foremost This investigation shows the improvements that can be collections of Anglo-Saxon decorated manuscripts made to scientific and historical knowledge through the originating from both Britain and abroad, exemplifying non-invasive analytical techniques provided by Renishaws almost every significant script or school.
In the past, Raman spectroscopy instrumentation.
information on the materials used to compose the illuminations has relied upon later written evidence such as artist instructions and pigment price lists.
Until recently, analysis of the pigments using non-destructive techniques has been limited and so identification has largely been done by visual inspection and recipe reconstruction, which can be unreliable.
However, Professor Robin Clark and Dr Katherine Brown of University College London, together with David Jacobs and Dr Michelle Brown of the British Library, have undertaken analysis of the Lindisfarne Gospels, using Renishaw Raman spectroscopy and a fibre optic probe.
The Lindisfarne Gospels were written between 715 and 721 AD in honour of St Cuthbert, Bishop of Lindisfarne Above: Carpet page and initial page from St. Johns Gospel.
Below: the title page and spread from St. Marks Gospel.
The original analysis of the manuscript in 1960 identified lazurite pigments, which would represent the earliest known use of these in an English manuscript and, by implication, prove the existence of a trade route from what is now north-east Afghanistan to Northumbria.
The investigations using Renishaw instrumentation revealed that the blue pigment in the Lindisfarne Gospels is not lazurite but indigo, probably made from the woad plant.
Of the manuscripts studied so far by Raman spectroscopy, the earliest work found to contain lazurite dates from around 920 AD, significantly later than originally thought.
The RM Raman Microscope was used in the Lindisfarne Gospel analysis.
