Chairmans Statement 2003 has been a year of change for the company with James Wilde succeeding me as chief executive at the beginning of the year and his subsequent restructuring of the management of the company into four service sectors.
He will comment in detail in his review on the companys performance in 2003.
Results In summary, underlying trading was broadly in line with market price from a world-leading business services company.
Turnover from continuing operations increased the network and reach that allows us to be the premium quality 6.9% to 2,471.1 million: profit before tax increased 4.7% to supplier of business services in the great majority of the worlds 408.5 million, before charging 11.7 million as an exceptional developed economies.
With the imminent enlargement of the loss on disposal of businesses and earnings per share, adjusted for European Union and the growing prosperity across Europe, we this exceptional loss, were up 9.8% to 16.47p, with basic earnings are confident that there will be an increasing demand for higher per share up 5.5% to 15.83p.
Operating cash flow was excellent standards and sophistication in hygiene, safety and security at 269.3 million.
Net debt was 52.5 million lower than 2002 at which will provide us with many opportunities for developing 1,207.9 million, notwithstanding the effect of 23.1 million of our activities.
adverse foreign exchange adjustments and 90.7 million arising Equally importantly, we have a great opportunity to further from a net outflow of funds from share buy-backs, acquisitions develop our position within countries in which we already and disposals.
We expect to achieve this by increasing our market Dividend shares for existing services through organic growth and boltThe board is recommending a final dividend of 4.35p per share, on acquisitions, using our widespread experience in developing giving a full year dividend of 6.10p per share, an increase of business services across many countries.
The board is planning for an increase in the Corporate governance and corporate social responsibility dividend per share in 2004 of at least 10%.
Since I became chairman in 2002, the board has been Strategy and markets strengthened further by the appointments of Peter Long and The companys vision statement is set out on page 14 in the chief Paul Mason in 2002 and 2003 respectively.
The words are new but they enunciate a set of 2003 saw the introduction of the new Combined Code, following principles which have guided Rentokil Initial for many years.
The a long period of review and discussion, prompted mainly by the company already occupies a leading position in the business failure of corporate governance in companies, particularly in the services sector, offering hygiene, safety and security solutions.
The new Combined Code has introduced a number However, the markets we serve provide us with a wealth of of improvements to an already generally robust system of opportunities for growth.
Increasing economic prosperity in most governance in the UK.
I am pleased to say that your board has markets around the world is bringing with it ever increasing put in hand changes including reorganisation of procedures and demands for consistent and high standards of hygiene, safety and terms of reference of board committees to ensure compliance security.
Growing public concern over these issues, fuelled by ever with the new Code.
More information on corporate governance increasing regulation, gives the company an opportunity is set out in the report of the directors.
which it fully intends to develop.
We continue to make good progress in developing and Strong distinctive branding assists in reinforcing our competitive implementing practices and procedures in relation to corporate edge.
We have the benefit of two well-established brands, social responsibility, which support the policies which have been Rentokil and Initial, which we believe are symbols of publicly adopted by the board.
More information on corporate consistent quality and so differentiate our services from those social responsibility may be found in the report of the directors.
We do not forget that our customers, wherever they may be, have the right to expect consistent quality standards at a fair 4 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC People On behalf of the board I would like to pay tribute to the efforts of all our 93,000 employees.
We have always considered our people to be the cornerstone on which we rely to maintain the high quality of service on which our reputation is based.
Rentokil Initial has always been a company in which success is recognised and in which advancement follows achievement.
To that end, we maintain high standards of training and career opportunities.
Prospects Organic turnover growth is the prime requirement for profitable growth and, to that end, the company is maintaining investment in additional sales management and sales staff, where appropriate, and introducing further technological developments to improve the productivity and quality of our services.
The main emphasis on development will be concentrated on Hygiene and Security within continental Europe.
The company is aiming for good growth in turnover in 2004 although it is likely that margins will be adversely affected by pricing levels of net new business gains, the faster growth in our lower margin businesses and the investments referred to above.
As a result of the initiatives already taken and those planned for 2004, the company should benefit from a strong performance in 2005 and beyond, reflecting an improving turnover growth rate, especially in the companys higher margin businesses.
Sir Clive Thompson Chairman 24th March 2004 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 5
