Chairmans statement I am confident that the steps we have taken, and those we shall continue to take, will be successful in delivering to shareholders our target of a 12% return on net operating assets in the medium term.
04 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Profits up in Spain New sand supply source Record profits were posted in Spain, one This new sand production plant uses of the Groups key markets.
During the state-of-the-art technology and provides year, our subsidiary Readymix Asland a long-term supply source for the central supplied concrete for the construction Florida market.
of the Delicias railway station, a major civil engineering project in Zaragoza.
Strategy With the unacceptable level of losses incurred in Germany, plans to During 2003 we made significant progress in the reshaping of the restore the business to profitability have been developed and are now Group.
We continued to implement our strategic plan aimed at being implemented.
During the year we also received an unsolicited progressively moving the Group, over the medium term, to achieve approach from HeidelbergCement AG concerning the possible our target of a return on net operating assets of 12%.
acquisition of the Groups German operations.
Following meetings with the European Commission and the German competition To this end we have embarked on a major cost reduction programme authorities it became clear that it would not be possible to structure in our main markets with a target to reduce operating costs by at least a proposed transaction that would overcome the regulatory issues.
We are also pursuing further cost reductions Accordingly, talks with HeidelbergCement were discontinued.
We at our Rugby cement plant and have embarked on a major remain determined to resolve the problems of restoring our German restructuring programme in Germany to return it to profitability, business to profitability and, as described in the Chief Executives from the current level of unacceptable loss.
review, are now fully focused on the restructuring programme.
The refocusing of the Group on its core products and key geographic regions Great Britain Ireland Europe USA gave further impetus to In Germany, we have our disposal programme which ensured we were comfortably ahead, at 914 million, of our December 2001 target to reduce debt below embarked on a major 1 billion by the end of 2003. restructuring programme Since the end of the financial year, Adelaide Brighton has repaid its Group loan, following the disposal of our majority position in this to return the business company.
This has resulted in a 92 million cash inflow which has further strengthened our Balance sheet, making it one of the to profitability.
Our focus on performance improvement across all our core businesses saw profit before tax, excluding exceptional items and the increase I am confident that the steps we have taken, and those we shall in losses in Germany, rise by 22%.
continue to take, will be successful in delivering to shareholders our target of a 12% return on net operating assets in the medium term.
The progress to date and the strength of our Balance sheet now provides a sound basis for selective investment in our core markets.
Further disposals helped us Performance comfortably meet our Group profit before tax, excluding exceptional items, was 133.0 million compared with 144.3 million in 2002.
After including commitment to reduce net exceptional items, there was a loss of 132.9 million against 136.1 million profit the previous year.
debt to below 1 billion by Earnings per share, excluding exceptional items and goodwill the end of 2003. amortisation, were 37.1p 2002: 41.4p.
Including these items, basic earnings per share were 59.0 p 2002: 26.5p.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 05 Top priority Chairmans statement continued Ensuring the health and safety of employees, contractors and the public is of the highest priority to the Group wherever it operates.
Dividend The Board continues to recognise the importance of the dividend to shareholders, particularly during this phase of reshaping the business.
In line with what was said at the time of our interim results, the Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend of 21.8p per ordinary share, which will be paid on 1 June 2004 to shareholders on the Register on 30 April 2004.
Together with the interim dividend paid per share of 9.4p 2002: 9.4p, this makes an unchanged total dividend for the year of 31.2p 2002: 31.2p.
Corporate governance and reporting This Annual Report and Accounts includes, for the first time, an Operating and financial review.
Our aim is to provide stakeholders with a broader, qualitative perspective of the Group to enable a more informed judgment to be reached on its performance and prospects.
I am also pleased to report that we are publishing separately, but simultaneously with this Annual Report and Accounts, a booklet which describes RMCs approach to corporate responsibility as an integral part of business practice.
Developments in this area during the year are described on pages 27 to 29 of the Operating and financial review and I would wish to make specific mention of the section on health Board visits RMC Board members make regular visits to Group operations.
Chairman Sir John and safety.
RMC believes its responsibility for ensuring the health and Parker left is seen here during a visit to our Croatian subsidiary Dalmacijacement, safety of employees, contractors and the public is of the highest with Managing Director Vinko Janjak.
priority in every country in which it operates, and this is the first agenda item at all Board and executive meetings across the Group.
Nonetheless, we have much still to do to embed a world class safety culture, and the Board is determined to accomplish this.
In July 2003 the Financial Reporting Council published a revised David Munro, our new Group Chief Executive, took up his version of the Combined Code of corporate governance, which appointment on 19 January 2004.
A mining engineer by background, incorporates the main proposals in the Higgs Review and the Smith he joined us from BHP Billiton, where he was Chief Development Report.
I am pleased to report that the Group has taken the necessary Officer and a member of the executive committee.
Prior to Billitons steps to ensure compliance with the new requirements.
merger with BHP he was the main board director responsible for the companys global aluminium and base metals businesses.
David has Board changes an outstanding track record of leading and building value in major In January this year Stuart Walker retired on reaching the normal industrial companies as well as extensive international operational and retirement age for executive Directors, after almost 33 years with RMC.
These qualities will be of great relevance to the He was appointed to the Group Board in 1993 and became Group Boards objectives of building RMC into one of the worlds leading Chief Executive in June 2000.
On behalf of my colleagues I should like high performance building materials groups.
to express the Boards gratitude for the service that Stuart has given to the Group and the important contribution he made as Chief Executive in the restructuring of the Group during a very challenging period.
We wish him well in his retirement.
06 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Recovery at Rugby One of the features of the year was the sustained improvement in productivity at the Rugby cement plant.
The plant delivered consistently improved levels of production following the replacement of the kilns burners and other modifications and upgrades during the annual shutdown in January.
Employees The Board recognises that RMC is dependent for its success as We have introduced a major a business on the expertise, commitment, professionalism and enthusiasm of its employees in every country in which the Group cost reduction programme to operates.
I should like to thank all our personnel for their contribution to the Group at a time of considerable and necessary change in many achieve annualised savings of at of our businesses which is placing extra demands on teams and individuals.
The quality of our employees and their response to these least 50 million during 2005. challenges gives me confidence that the Group is well placed to achieve its strategic objectives.
Sir John Parker Chairman RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 07
