02 Rotork Annual Report 2003 Chairmans Statement Overall our businesses have performed well in the year.... most of our Far East operations, in particular China, delivered good growth in the year.
Introduction half although the benefit of this was The acquisition of the Australian business, Trading conditions for Rotork varied diluted by the deteriorating dollar.
Most Deanquip Valve Automation in January around the world, with good levels of of our Far East operations, in particular 2004, will improve our customer focus demand in the Far East and Europe being China, delivered good growth in the year.
in Australasia and complement our Fluid partially offset by difficulties in the System service centre in Singapore.
The oil and gas The Electric Actuation business launched markets were generally more active, while its new quarter turn actuator, the IQT, The Leeds based Gears business did well some of our water and waste water in the third quarter and this has been in the year recording a 13% improvement markets contracted.
From continuing well received by customers.
This product in both sales volume and in operating operations before tax, goodwill and offers more benefits than the unit it profit.
The Dutch operation, where exceptional profit from the disposal of replaces, representing value for money management changes were made at the Luton building, profit increased by improvement and new levels of technical the end of the prior year, has seen 7% to 29m on Group sales 5% ahead excellence in all its applications.
The AWT much improved margin performance at 136m.
If turnover were converted actuator, built in Malaysia and launched and contributed well to the results of at constant currency year on year, the at the end of 2002, is gaining acceptance the division.
The drive in Gears to reduce effect would have been negligible.
The in the market and winning new customers.
costs through Far East procurement is year-end order book was unchanged The factory is now operating as planned now making a positive impact on the over the previous year.
although not yet at capacity.
margins as well as enabling us to better meet customer requirements for cost Net cash increased by 12m to 32m and In Fluid System, the move to the new effective timely product deliveries.
from this substantial balance we intend premises in Lucca at the beginning of to return some cash to investors in the the year was achieved with the minimum Dividend and Cash form of an additional interim dividend to of disruption as was the simultaneous A final dividend of 9.50p is proposed be paid in May with the final dividend.
implementation of a new production which is an increase of 7% over last We are also recognising the system.
The business has won some large year, and gives a dividend for the year underfunded position of the pension projects in the year and executed them up 6% over 2002. scheme with a one off contribution successfully delivering growth of nearly equivalent to the extra dividend.
17% in operating profit before goodwill on an increase in sales of 13%.
This Business review further progress in profit of the division Overall our businesses have performed is driven by our growing ability, through well in the year.
All of the companies product and marketing initiatives, to were profitable except the Malaysian exploit the opportunities in the fluid assembly facility although the new AWT power market.
Its impact in the US has actuator produced there did record a however been constrained by the positive profit contribution to the Group weakening dollar, affecting the cost of as a whole.
The US improved in the second its products into the US market.
Rotork Annual Report 2003 03 30 years of dividend growth Dividend p 1974 - 2003 Our continued strong cash generation towards a greater level of cover.
Outlook has contributed to balances exceeding Dividend cover for the year under review Overall market indicators are positive, 32m at the year-end.
The graph above shows that and there is a reasonable level of large trading remains in line with expectations dividends have grown in almost every project activity around the world.
The this trend will continue in 2004.
With year for the last 30 years.
weakness of the US dollar, in which a this in mind the Board has decided to third of our revenues are denominated, recommend the return of some of this Recognising the deficit in the defined and the strength of the pound against cash to shareholders by way of an benefit pension scheme has encouraged most other trading currencies will, if additional dividend for 2004 of 5.85p, to us to address part of this shortfall with maintained at current levels, impact our be paid on May 28 with the 2003 final an additional contribution into the expected growth in sterling terms.
dividend to shareholders on the register scheme of 5m in 2004, which is However mitigation should come from at 2 April.
Over the last few years our approximately equivalent to the third our cost reduction programmes, which dividend cover has reduced to around dividend payment for 2004.
This include procurement from dollar related 1.5 times, a level that is lower than we contribution is ahead of the actuarial sources.
These factors, combined with would like.
It is therefore our current valuation of the scheme set for 31 March the good level of order intake in the last intention that when recommending the 2004.
There will be no reduction in profit few months, give us the confidence to levels of interim and final dividends for as a result of this contribution, which is look forward to further progress in 2004.
2004, following our announcement of taken account of in the ongoing the additional interim dividend for 2004 pension cost accruals.
