6 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder, This has been a year of outstanding growth from our The financial year to 31 March 2003 has been a year businesses in South Africa, Europe and Africa & Asia.
of strong growth for your company.
Following the Strong operational performances and favourable currency acquisition of the Miller Brewing Company in July 2002 movements have led to an increase in EBITA of 33% from we are now a truly international business with a brewing our business excluding Miller.
Our plans for the Miller presence in over 40 countries and across four continents.
business are addressed later in the chief executives In size terms, we are the second largest brewer in the review.
We remain confident that integrating the business world by volume and in the carbonated soft drinks market into the group and building a platform for growth can we remain one of the largest bottlers and distributors of be achieved within three years.
Subsequent to the year Coca-Cola products outside the US.
end the group gained control of Birra Peroni in Western Europe and a joint venture, through our Mysore Breweries But size is not an end in itself.
Our growth has been subsidiary, was formed with Shaw Wallace Breweries driven by our objective to add value for you, our in India, which will further strengthen our operations in shareholders.
We now have a spread of operations these areas.
and currencies with an attractive balance between Over the last year growth in the global economy fast growing developing markets and cash generative has weakened, political uncertainty has increased and developed markets.
We have created a quality brand the climate for business has become tougher.
Share portfolio with very strong regional and local market prices on stock markets worldwide have been volatile positions and in the Pilsner Urquell and Miller brands and your company has not been immune to this.
we have considerable opportunity for cross-selling in However, since SABMiller moved its primary listing to the our existing markets.
London Stock Exchange in March 1999 the FTSE 100 Through our size, geographical balance, quality brand has produced a Total Shareholder Return TSR of portfolio, extensive distribution network and financial negative 29% while your company has produced a TSR strength we should be able to enhance the competitiveness of negative 0.6% as at the time of our preliminary results of our business and in turn drive incremental value.
Financial and operational performance Corporate governance We are pleased to report that in the 12 months to Since the beginning of the year, UK listed companies, 31 March 2003 adjusted earnings per share increased and those in the FTSE 100 in particular, have been by 11% to 54.0 US cents and we have recommended assessing the implications of the recommendations a maintained final dividend of 18.5 US cents per share, in the Higgs Review on the role of boards and their making 25.0 US cents per share for the full year, which effectiveness.
It is not yet clear in what form these is now in line with our declared aim of achieving dividend will be incorporated into the Combined Code.
nevertheless, concerned that rules should not take The balance sheet remains strong, despite nancing precedence over appropriate and practical principles.
the Miller acquisition, and net cash inow generated from In addition, they should be capable of being applied in operating activities reached US$1,568 million with gearing ways that take full account of contractual obligations, and interest cover at very acceptable levels of 42.4% and and of the different circumstances of companies which over five times respectively.
operate in various jurisdictions and which in our case SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 7 Today, SABMiller has a brewing presence in over 40 countries.
Through our geographic reach and balance, the quality and breadth of our brand portfolio and our widespread distribution network, we are well placed to deliver shareholder value.
Meyer Kahn Chairman have a high proportion of overseas shareholders.
The and acquisitions, to join the board.
As a consequence mechanism in Higgs of allowing companies to comply or of the board restructure, Hank Slack, Conrad Strauss, explain will also need to be applied so that companies Norman Adami, Pete Lloyd, Andr Parker and Michael are able to balance specic internal needs around the Simms retired from the board.
I would like to thank applicable benchmarks.
Hank and Conrad for their valuable contributions and The board strongly supports the ethical values my special thanks go to the former executive directors underlying the Combined Code and is understanding who have given long and meritorious service to the of the efforts in the UK and elsewhere to enhance the company and will no doubt continue to do so in their governance standards of companies across markets.
I consider all our directors to be of unquestioned integrity Our continuing success as a business depends and our company has always, as a corporate citizen, on the quality of our people and their determination, applied the highest quality standards in all its financial experience and creativity.
I salute my fellow directors and operational reporting, as evidenced by the numerous for their commitment and the contribution they make awards bestowed upon SABMiller in this regard.
I wish to to our strategic deliberations and on behalf of the board assure shareholders that the board will continue to act in I applaud every one of our employees for their contribution the best interest of the company and all its stakeholders.
to the continuing success of the company.
Throughout the year we continued our active programme of Corporate Social Investment contributing almost 2% of pre tax profit to a range of projects in the local communities in which we work.
These projects include major programmes spread across such diverse areas as health, welfare, education and entrepreneurship.
The company also takes seriously its commitment to promoting responsible alcohol consumption and Meyer Kahn actively engages with stakeholders around the world Chairman on alcohol issues.
Board changes On the conclusion of the Miller transaction we welcomed Altria, formerly called Philip Morris as a supportive longterm shareholder in SABMiller, with a 36% economic interest and a 24.99% voting interest.
This necessitated a restructuring of the board which now consists of two executive directors Graham Mackay, chief executive, and Malcolm Wyman, chief financial officer, and 11 non-executive directors.
We were pleased that Altria nominated Louis Camilleri, their chairman and chief executive, Geoffrey Bible, their former chairman and chief executive and Nancy fide Lisi, their senior vice-president of mergers
