| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 2 Chairmans Statement Today ScottishPower has an international leadership team of growing stature.
All four ScottishPower businesses produced good managing it.
We are now applying this experience results during 2002 03, sustaining the recovery in the UK wholesale market with success.
Our that began in the latter months of last year.
This grasp and handling of detailed regulatory issues financial and commercial progress is especially has improved, boding well for the next UK price pleasing after the challenges the energy markets review in 2005.
We are developing a growing have presented in both the US and the UK.
portfolio of renewable energy assets and have Earnings per share rose by 29% to 33.71 pence.
successfully renegotiated the Nuclear Energy Agreement with British Energy.
Our regulated businesses in the US and UK both performed well.
PaciCorps drive to increase Against our peer groups, ScottishPower remains at operational efficiency and improve customer or near the top of the environmental and social service resulted in a substantial boost to impact rankings, and PaciCorp is gaining ground profitability and remains on track to achieve its in the equivalent US benchmarks.
Surveys among targeted return on equity.
Our UK Infrastructure our employees, who have borne the brunt of all business delivered another strong performance, the change and upheaval within the businesses, increasing sales and meeting demanding cost show morale improving.
Pensions have been much in the news during the In the competitive sectors, the UK Division has year and neither our US nor UK pension funds continued to face tough conditions but succeeded have escaped the downturn in equity markets.
We in increasing sales, maintaining profits and have resumed contributions to our UK pension growing customer numbers.
Our newest business, funds and will make the recovery of increased PPM, reported an operating profit of 28 million pension costs through regulatory processes one of and has good opportunities to grow its successful our priorities in both the US and the UK.
gas storage and renewables ventures.
Now turning to the Board, there are a number of With profits and earnings up, debt and interest changes to report.
Nick Rose, Finance Director of charges down, and satisfactory cash ow, Diageo, joined the Board as a non-executive ScottishPower ended the year in a sound financial director in February 2003.
We have announced our intention to retire as a non-executive director after the AGM.
declare three quarterly dividend payments of 4.75 We thank him for his advice and wish him well.
I pence from April 2003 and will set the fourth am grateful that Sir Peter Gregson, who had quarter payment to represent the balance of the planned to retire this year, has agreed to extend dividend for the year to 31 March 2004.
After his term of ofce for another year.
March 2004, we shall aim to grow dividends in line This has been an eventful but ultimately with earnings.
successful year during which all our employees in The last weeks of 2001 02 saw ScottishPower both the US and the UK have given strong support refocused on energy, and these results prove on a daily basis.
On behalf of the Board, I want to clearly that this was the correct strategy.
The thank them for their efforts and goodwill.
testing period we have endured has had a positive The outlook for ScottishPower remains positive, effect on the groups culture.
Today ScottishPower with additional improvements in performance has an international leadership team of growing expected from our business and good stature and a programme of development opportunities for further growth.
initiatives designed to raise our skills and competencies further.
We have had to sharpen existing skills and develop others that will be of lasting value.
The California energy crisis that followed so soon after our merger with PaciCorp has given us a heightened Charles Miller Smith Chairman awareness of risk and better techniques for 7 May 2003 Charles Miller Smith, Chairman excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
