02 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chairmans statement Group turnover was up 3.2% at 1,852.0 million Introduction During a turbulent economic and political year, Severn Trent was a haven of stability for investors.
Against a background of a fall of around 30% in the FTSE All-Share Index, our share price remained relatively stable.
In addition, our shares delivered one of the higher dividend yields in the index.
We made a clear statement that it is the Boards intention that for the period up to 31 March 2005, barring unforeseen circumstances, full year dividends per share would be a minimum of 45.9p this being the full year dividend for 2001 2002.
In line with our longer-term goals of delivering attractive yields and sustainable dividends, we also worked to grow the business.
We made a clear statement that for Business performance To achieve continued stability, Severn Trent the period up to 31 March 2005, concentrated on further reducing the risks barring unforeseen circumstances, facing the company and our investors.
In 2002 2003, we strengthened our focus full year dividends per share would on our core business areas of water, waste, and laboratories.
In line with Our organisational and financial management our longer-term goals of delivering systems are designed to help protect us from risk.
In particular, Severn Trents mixed equity attractive yields and sustainable and debt model is, we believe, the best way to dividends, we also worked to grow provide continued investment for the water industry.
However, the regulatory regime the business.
must allow an adequate rate of return and encourage management incentives.
Severn Trent Waters debt was 49.5% of regulatory capital value, at 31 March 2003.
The Severn Trent Water team convinced the regulator, OFWAT, to allow us to recover David Arculus some of the growing cost pressures on the Chairman company by increasing charges.
As a result, water bills will rise slightly above the rate of ination for the next two years.
This will mean that prices to customers are still below those in 2000, the beginning of the last regulatory review.
Contributing to Severn Trents drive for growth is a move towards public sector contracts.
We were named as preferred bidder for a 03 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 There are significant opportunities for the group, Turnover by business % of group total in 2002 2003 particularly from the increasing pace of legislation 1 Water 47% 917.9m in the waste sector, with Biffa well positioned to 4 1 2 Waste 26% 510.9m take advantage of growing demand for predisposal 3 Services 20% 385.4m 3 4 Others 7% 134.3m treatment and sorting.
2 substantial long-term strategic partnership Corporate social responsibility However, Clare Tritton has now decided to with Solihull Metropolitan Borough Council.
Severn Trent is committed to high standards stand down as a non-executive Director after In our non-regulated businesses, Biffa won a of corporate governance.
We are actively almost 12 years and I would like to thank significant contract to manage the collection, involved in the debate surrounding the her for her outstanding contribution to the recycling and disposal of waste for Leicester Higgs Report into the role of non-executive Board.
Eric Anstee took over the Chairmanship City Council.
Directors, which was published following of the Audit Committee and Marisa Cassoni recent, high-prole corporate failures.
succeeded him as Chairman of the Treasury In Severn Trent Services, our successful While many of the Higgs recommendations Committee.
Laboratories operation, STL, strengthened are sound, we feel that the report is too their suite of water, ground and air testing prescriptive and we are articulating our My greatest thanks, however, must go to products, growing their profits organically by concerns in the hope of achieving a sensible our hard working staff in the UK, US, Europe over 10%.
Severn Trent Water International, conclusion to the debate.
and other parts of the world, who once again led by Tony Hill, recently awarded an MBE, worked tirelessly to achieve our business continued to pursue opportunities in the Severn Trent aims to achieve high goals and uphold our reputation for both UK, Belgium, Italy and further aeld.
service delivery and environmental concern.
We were ranked top of our sector in the Our continuing success will be due to their Group results Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the skill and dedication.
Group turnover was 1,852.0 million, up 3.2%.
The non-regulated businesses increased Outlook turnover by 5.0% to 1,030.6 million.
Biffa is recognised as making a substantial There are significant opportunities for the Turnover from water and sewerage increased and positive contribution to the national group, particularly from the increasing pace by 2.0% to 917.9 million.
environmental debate as well as boosting of legislation in the waste sector, with Biffa sustainability through its landll gas well positioned to take advantage of growing Goodwill amortisation was 25.2 million to energy projects.
During 2002 2003, demand for predisposal treatment and sorting.
There was a net exceptional our landll tax credit scheme, Biffaward, charge in the year of 40.8 million which recycles landll tax credits, provided Growing synergies between our water and waste 17.0 million.
17 million for environmental and companies will lead to future opportunities.
A significant proportion of Severn Trent Group profit before interest, tax, goodwill Waters income comes from processing amortisation and exceptional items was Through our group community affairs waste products and we see considerable 2.1% lower at 409.8 million.
The water programme we have 11 long-term scope for sharing expertise and technology.
and sewerage business was down by partnerships with Midlands charities.
2.6% to 325.5 million reecting the tight Many of our employees have given their In the current financial year our key virtues of regulatory determination whilst the groups own time to help community projects.
integrity, consistent performance and sound non-regulated businesses were up 3.7% to Employee volunteering is now being used management will be more important than ever 104.5 million, representing 24.3% of the by many businesses within the group as a given the continuing economic challenges.
way of enhancing and introducing new skills Looking further ahead, the dual drivers of to employees.
We are a founding member increasing environmental legislation and Group profit before interest, tax and of Birmingham Cares which delivers greater understanding of the water industrys exceptional items was 384.6 million volunteering opportunities in Birmingham.
investment needs offer further growth 392.3 million.
Group profit before interest opportunities.
and tax was 343.8 million 375.3 million.
We are also members of Business in the Communitys PerCent Club, by virtue of The groups strategy continues to be to After interest charges of 159.4 million, investing more than 1% of our pre-tax increase shareholder value by establishing group profit before tax, goodwill amortisation profits in the community.
Severn Trent as the UKs leading integrated and exceptional items was 3.6% lower environmental services business.
Group profit before tax Management and staff aims to build on the groups leadership and exceptional items was 225.2 million Our Board and top management team positions in the UK waste market and in 233.3 million, a reduction of 3.5%.
remained unchanged during the year, environmental testing in the USA and the Group profit before tax was 184.4 million bringing stability and consistency of vision UK, with Severn Trent Water continuing 216.3 million.
to outperform its regulatory targets.
