In the year to 31 March 2003, the Groups turnover increased by 4% to 551m 2002: 529m, mainly due to the 10% growth achieved in the Benelux region.
However headline profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation fell by 10.8m to 34.5m 2002: 45.3m in line with the Groups pre-close trading statement released on 28 March 2003.
The decline in UK Waste Services more than offset improvements in the Groups other three operations: UK Chemical Services, Belgium and the Netherlands.
In addition, there were exceptional charges totalling 5.5m 2002: 8.4m and goodwill amortisation amounted to 10.6m 2002: 10.0m.
The resulting profit before tax was 18.4m 2002: 26.9m.
The tax rate on headline profit was lower at 31% 2002: 32%.
Profit after tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was therefore 9.3m 2002: 14.8m.
Earnings per share eps before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation fell by 23% to 10.2p 2002: 13.2p.
Your Board recommends an unchanged final dividend of 3.8 pence per share which, if approved by shareholders, brings the total dividend for the year to 5.7 pence per share 2002: 5.7p.
The exceptional charges of 5.5m arose from a provision of 3.2m relating to the regulatory requirement to reduce historical leachate levels at UK landfill sites, and 2.3m to cover UK restructuring costs and net losses on the disposal of underperforming businesses and non-core assets.
The cash generation of the Group remains strong with earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items EBITDA at 100m 2002: 113m.
The Group net debt reduced by 32m, before additional Public Finance Initiative PFI companies debt of 18m and an adverse currency translation effect of 22m.
Group consolidated net borrowings therefore increased by 8m to 298m 2002: 290m.
Net capital expenditure on the core business was 48m and on PFI companies was 5m.
Acquisitions in the core business were 3m and in PFI companies were 7m.
Interest expense remained broadly steady at 18.7m 2002: 18.8m with interest cover before exceptional items at 3 times.
Divisional Review UK Waste Services Trading profits fell by 16.4m to 19.7m 2002: 36.1m.
In part this reflects the loss of the 5m benefit last year from wastes arising from the Foot and Mouth crisis.
The balance of this disappointing performance mainly resulted from a decline in the landfill activity.
Both collections and recycling were also adversely affected by the difficult trading environment.
In response, the division has been substantially restructured with four members of the senior management team changed.
The new organisation has a sharper operational focus and, as a result of headcount reductions, a lower overall cost.
All underperforming units are in the process of review.
Landfill volumes were 13% down due to diversion of special waste as a result of the Landfill Directive and the policy of sacrificing volumes in the pursuit of higher prices.
Prices have been increased to recover higher regulatory, insurance and other costs but overall margins declined.
The Collections and Recycling unit suffered from lower volumes and recyclate prices.
Power, produced from landfill gas, increased profits due to the premium prices now available from the Renewables Order and the installation of new capacity late in the year.
The East London Waste Authority ELWA PFI contract, worth in excess of 1bn in revenues over 25 years, commenced in December 2002 and is performing according to its business plan, as is the Argyll & Bute PFI contract which started in September 2001.
UK Chemical Services Trading losses reduced by 2.8m to 1.2m loss 2002: 4.0m loss.
The cessation of operations at the Pontypool high temperature incinerator delivered the expected savings of 4m in the year.
This decrease in available UK incineration capacity appears to have stabilised prices in the sector.
The first contract to process Bone Meal MBM from the BSE crisis expired at the start of the year.
The new, fluidised bed plant which processes MBM under a second contract has not been operating as planned.
It was extensively modified by the responsible contractor during the last quarter and since then, its performance has been encouraging.
Other waste treatment activities have benefited from the diversion of special wastes from landfill with both volume and prices increasing.
On-site services, including overseas field services delivered an improved performance.
2003 Belgium Trading profits in Belgium increased by 1.4m to 14.5m 2002: 13.1m.
Profits benefited by 0.6m from the stronger Euro but the enhancement was mainly due to improvements at fide Paepe, Gent.
As expected landfill volumes reduced and the re-permitting application for additional void at our major site is progressing, albeit slowly.
Other operations including electricity from landfill gas have performed well and have more than offset the reduced activity levels in Liege and the start up costs of new municipal collection contracts, including the first in Northern France.
The Netherlands Trading profits increased by 0.9m to 25.9m 2002: 25.0m.
These results benefited by 1.1m from the stronger Euro but were adversely affected by higher insurance and one-off pension costs totalling 1.2m.
The solid waste business performed satisfactorily but in the last quarter felt the effects of a weakening market.
Reym industrial cleaning continued to prosper and the results from the Flection computer refurbishment business were steady.
ATM, the hazardous waste activity, increased its profits despite difficulties with both the re-permitting of its pyrolysis plant and changes to the Dutch specification of cleaned soil.
Its oil water separation business had an excellent year, which offset these two issues.
Developments United Kingdom The Group continues to bid on a selected number of long term local authority waste disposal tenders based on the mechanical biological treatment MBT technology provided by our Italian partner Ecodeco for the ELWA contract.
It remains preferred bidder at Dumfries & Galloway, which is expected to financially close later this year.
Planning permission has also been granted for a green centre for the pre-processing of municipal waste using MBT at our Bletchley site.
The Group intends to build a select portfolio from similar opportunities, mainly through PFI.
This will provide a high degree of predictability over long term cash flows and earnings.
The Power business will benefit from the recent increase in capacity and is also a dependable source of low risk income.
Benelux Three small tuck-in acquisitions were completed during the year which will expand the business base.
There are also a number of opportunities in Northern France.
The recent State Council decision regarding the ATM pyrolysis plant should result in a permit being granted in the coming months.
Outlook The poor performance reported at UK Waste Services is expected to continue although the reorganisation of this division together with the growth in its Power and PFI businesses will partially mitigate the effects.
The current Euro Sterling exchange rate will benefit the translation of earnings from the Benelux region, where there are signs of a general economic slow down.
Successful resolution of the permit problems at ATM should benefit the financial results later in the year.
The Group has assembled a wide range of capabilities to meet the changing market conditions resulting from the implementation of European legislation and increases in environmental taxes, especially in the UK.
The longer term prospects for the Group remain good but the continuing UK Waste Services difficulties are expected to restrict overall growth in the current year.
