5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 2 02 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Chairmans review Chairmans review The international pharmaceutical industry 2003 results has changed considerably during the last Group turnover increased by 7% to 761.1 decade and this continued in 2003.
Loss on ordinary at Shire is that, whatever their size, successful activities before taxation reduced to 298.3 pharmaceutical companies now require focus, million 2002: 526.8 million.
Diluted loss per particularly in their product markets, customer ordinary share was 72.9 p 2002: loss of 117.5p.
base, research and development and cost control.
Unsurprisingly, these are areas that we focussed The results for 2003 include a 426.4 million on in 2003 and will continue to do so in the 2002: 614.0 million write down of the goodwill current year.
We have achieved clear success that was created on the acquisition of BioChem to date and through greater focus expect more Pharma Inc. in 2001. to follow in 2004.
Signicantly, Shires cash ow remained strong Within his short time as Chief Executive officer, with cash inow from operations of 280.3 million Matthew Emmens has shaped Shire for its 2002: 302.3 million supporting a net funds future.
Our newly deployed strategic model position of 584.7 million 2002: 506.2 million, is designed to optimise the opportunities for which will be used for future expansion.
us and deal with future challenges within the industry.
Shire will position itself as the leading The Board company in meeting the needs of the specialist We continue to develop the Shire Board to physician with a focus on fewer, later stage and match the demands of what is now a large, lower risk projects.
This means that we do not international business in a changing invent products but acquire them.
Therefore, we pharmaceutical market place.
are focusing on not only the type of deals that give us a good pipeline, but also how to best In line with newly published recommendations Dr James Cavanaugh develop them with ultimate market success in on corporate governance, Shire has talked to Chairman mind.
We will continue to enhance our positions a range of shareholders and taken advice on in the key areas of central nervous system CNS, how to best meet these guidelines.
A programme gastrointestinal GI and renal medicine, while of implementation is underway and more detail remaining alert for new therapeutic areas that can be found in the Corporate governance would benefit from our expertise.
statements of this document on pages 14 to 17.
Shires sales force continues to deliver impressive In March 2003, Matthew Emmens was appointed results and its reputation amongst specialist as Chief Executive officer.
He has a strong physicians makes it a partner of choice when track record of success over an international it comes to potential acquisitions and the pharmaceutical career spanning nearly 30 years.
in-licensing of projects and products.
Our strong Matthew was a founder of the joint venture Astra cash position gives us considerable exibility Merck Inc. in the US, and later its President and in looking at potential mergers and acquisitions Chief Executive officer.
Before joining Shire, he M&A opportunities and we have identied was President of the global pharmaceutical a small number of highly attractive targets.
business of Merck KGaA in Germany.
5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 3 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Chairmans review 03 In July 2003, Shires Board appointed Robin People Buchanan as a new non-executive Director.
Shire had 1,815 employees worldwide as of He is a member of the Companys Remuneration 31 December 2003.
We believe strongly in the Committee.
Robin is the Senior Partner of the importance of hiring well qualied, experienced London ofce of business consultants Bain staff with proven records of success.
The Groups & Company and a member of the rms worldwide future progress depends upon its ability to attract management committee.
Since joining Bain and retain such individuals.
Shire will continue & Company in 1982, he has been involved in to apply and develop a strong focus on staff strategy development and organisation advice recruitment and development at all levels.
for Bains clients in most industry sectors, including healthcare.
Current trading and future prospects The Company is trading in line with our On 10 March 2004, we announced that expectations.
Shire has well-established David Kappler will join the Shire Board as positions in growing markets, a well dened a non-executive Director in April and will take strategy, strong cash resources and a promising over the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee pipeline of late stage drugs.
Mr Kappler is Chief Financial are confident of delivering sustained growth in officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc, the FTSE 2004, following the momentum we developed and NYSE listed global confectionery and in 2003. beverages group, where he has held a range of senior finance positions during his almost 40 year career with the Group.
While welcoming Matthew, Robin and David, I would also like to thank Francesco Bellini and Grard Veilleux for the contribution they have made to the Board having completed their two-year contracts with Shire.
