Chairmans statement continued George Weston Foods.
In spite of this level of capital industry.
This experience linked to his formidable intellect spending and investment, the net cash inow was 186m was of great benefit to us over his period on the board.
including 124m generated by the sale of businesses.
This We are very grateful to him for his input over the past nine strong performance reects continuing management focus years.
John MacGregor has taken on the responsibilities on the control of capital expenditure and working capital.
Following an interim valuation of the main UK pension Employees scheme earlier this year, your board agreed with the Trustee The results that the group has reported are due to the skills company to resume contributions.
8m has been charged and effort of over 35,000 people worldwide.
They have faced against profits reflecting the contribution for the year.
the continuing competitive pressures and have adapted This action was taken, although the scheme remained fully successfully to the changes affecting the group.
I am deeply funded, in the context of prevailing market conditions.
grateful to them all for their achievements.
Dividends Outlook The directors have declared a second interim dividend Looking forward it is certain that the competitive of 9.85p, which will be paid on 18 February 2004 environment faced by our businesses will continue to be to shareholders registered at the close of business on difficult, regardless of general economic conditions.
Together with the first interim of 4.75p of this there are opportunities for many of our businesses this makes a total of 14.6p for the year, representing an to develop their market position through product improvement increase in the total dividend of 10%.
In my interim report and continued attention to operational efficiency.
Backed by I explained that for many years the first interim dividend strong cash ow and a sound balance sheet, we will develop had not changed but commencing with this financial year our businesses for the long-term by investing in these the board would consider increases to the first interim as opportunities and adding new businesses.
We plan to continue this policy in the future with the year we expect to report further growth.
second interim dividend expected to form substantially the larger of the two dividends.
Martin G Adamson Chairman Board changes I referred in my interim report to Harry Baileys retirement as Chairman last December after 40 years service with the company, 23 of those as a director.
I can do no better than repeat the comments I made to you in April.
His contribution to this company in that time was immense.
His incisive thinking and sure judgement were very greatly valued by his colleagues on the board.
We wish him a long and happy retirement.
In May of this year, it was announced that Jeff Harris had been appointed as a non-executive director.
Mr Harris is chairman of Alliance UniChem plc, having previously been chief executive.
He is also a non-executive director of Bunzl plc.
His personal qualities and business experience will enable him to contribute strongly to ABF.
Roland Smith retired from the board at the end of the financial year in September.
Sir Roland, who was senior independent director, had been a director since December 1994.
He had an exceptionally wide experience of business and 4 Associated British Foods plc Chief Executives review Our proven ability to increase profits and at the same time generate strong cash ow for further investment should Another strong performance from the group saw operating profit, before amortisation of goodwill, grow by 14% to 450m.
give our shareholders Group sales rose by 8% to 4,909m.
This was a particularly good performance as growth came from across all of our confidence for the future.
This years growth can be seen in a broader context if we look at the results for the group since the financial year 1998 9.
Adjusted operating profit over this period increased from 326m to 450m this year, a growth of 38% or 8% per annum.
Throughout this period, although the profitability of British Sugar, with its sales limited by quotas, remained broadly at, our other businesses increased their profitability by two thirds.
Adjusted operating profit m 03 450 02 395 01 351 00 340 99 326 While delivering this consistent growth, our businesses have continued to generate excellent cash ow.
In the last year, cash flow generated after capital expenditure but before acquisitions and disposals was 292m.
Despite spending major sums on capital investment and targeted acquisitions over the last five years, net cash funds of 1,238m at the end of this financial year were 247m higher than at the beginning of the financial year 1998 9 after adjusting for the payment of the special dividend of 448m in May 1999.
Our proven ability to increase profits and at the same time generate strong cash ow for further investment should give our shareholders confidence for the future.
As well as a robust balance sheet and growth track record, our business continues to build a range of strong market positions at the same time as broadening its geographical base, particularly in North America and Asia.
The future will see us continue to build on those parts of our business that put forward clear growth strategies.
We will invest heavily in support of these strategies and, where appropriate, acquire businesses that fit well with these growth plans.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 5 Chief Executives review continued Acquisitions grab the headlines, but we are less interested ethnic products for the retail market but also improve the in the headlines than in ensuring that, when we spend efficiency of noodle manufacture.
our money, it is our shareholders who benefit in the short, medium and long-term, rather than just the shareholders Primark continues to make a major contribution.
This business of the selling business.
The management team is ambitious is totally dedicated to providing customers with the best to grow the business and sees acquisitions as an important possible value products which are sold under its own brand feature in this growth.
However, the timing of any transactions labels.
Primark is run by an extremely experienced and will be based solely on opportunity and suitability, rather focused team of people who are dedicated to retailing and than any desire to move quickly for its own sake.
Nevertheless, to building their business.
Their 7% like-for-like sales increase our search for suitable acquisition candidates is ongoing in the year is impressive by any measure.
One of the major and it has been encouraging to see the beneficial effect challenges over the next year will be its search to find that recent acquisitions have had on our business.
appropriate stores in the many towns and cities where we are not yet represented and we have increased the resource In the US, the acquisition of Mazola and a strong stable dedicated to nding these stores.
of foodservice brands have enabled ACH to move forward despite a weakening in the market for less differentiated This year has seen a further streamlining in the number commodity oils.
The ACH supply chain capability, as well of businesses in our portfolio.
Our UK glass business and US as the marketing strength that has been built around these rice business were profitable but along with our loss-making acquired brands, will provide a strong base for further growth Australian biscuit interests were unlikely to prosper within our in North America.
In speciality hot beverages, the acquisition group.
The sale of our third party British our milling interests of Ovaltine now provides us with a stronger international was particularly beneficial in that it enabled us to retain a very presence, particularly in Asia.
This presence will prove an strong core milling capability which is now fully integrated even better platform for Twinings which already has a strong into our bakery business providing a simple, dedicated our international growth record and which we are supporting over supply chain.
This is of great value to us in a highly competitive the next year by capital investments aimed at signicantly baking industry which operates on low margins and so increasing its production capacity and efficiency.
requires a lean cost base and maximum innovation.
This financial year also saw us acquire the minority interests Nothing ever stands still for long and we will continue to of George Weston Foods, our Australian business.
After a evaluate our portfolio of businesses but, at this stage, we have number of difficult years, this business is clearly benefiting confidence that all the major sectors of our business can full from a simplification of its focus.
Its head office has been their role in providing strong returns for our shareholders.
slimmed down commensurate with the businesses needs and, with the sale of our biscuit business and the restructuring British Sugar provides good returns but growth is constrained of our cake operation, we now have a business that can by EU production quotas.
Changes to the European sugar concentrate on growth.
regime are expected from 2006 which could adversely affect its profitability although the outcome of the current deliberations is As part of our investment for growth, the coming year will not yet known.
We expect that the new arrangements will still see a significant increase in the amount of resources spent provide for farmers to continue to grow sugar beet profitably on marketing initiatives and new product development.
This and for efficient companies to have the opportunity to make will include support for healthy eating brand extensions for a return on the heavy investments that have already been Ryvita, reinforcement of Kingsmills growth in the UK bread made in this industry.
market and new products to reinforce SPIs position in US non-sugar sweeteners.
Capital projects will be aimed at The management team of British Sugar has always increasing differentiation where possible as well as improving appreciated that the sugar regime could be changed at any our operational efficiency.
One example of this will be the time.
With this in mind it has worked hard to become the completion of Westmills new factory in Manchester which will lowest cost processor of beet sugar in Europe as well as not only enable the manufacture of a range of microwaveable making strides to develop an efficient operational base in 6 Associated British Foods plc
