06 07 chairmans statement 2003 was a very frustrating year for SkyePharma.
exemplify our strategic determination to maximise While we made significant progress in a number returns on our products and to prioritise royalty of important areas outlined in the Review of income or profit share over milestone payments.
operations, for a number of reasons we did not complete several key new agreements by the The management of SkyePharma is now in end of the year and therefore our revenues fell advanced negotiations with our preferred short of the target we had set ourselves.
Delaying partner for the pulmonary package.
We expect completion of these deals also raised our costs this agreement to be completed in the near since our budget had been based on the assumption future.
In addition to this negotiation, we are of development funding by the partner.
These two simultaneously conducting late-stage negotiations factors meant that we slipped back into losses with a number of alternative partners for these after reporting an initial profit in 2002. products.
We also remain in advanced negotiations with several potential partners for the unnamed Ian Gowrie-Smith Executive Chairman I wish to underscore the limited relevance of this oral pipeline product disclosed in the January in the context of the long-term growth of the Trading Update.
This product was filed for company.
Our business model involves revenues approval with the FDA in March 2004. from both milestone payments and royalties on product sales.
Royalty income is the key to future We have now completed a reorganisation of sustainable growth in profits.
However to secure our R&D units with the aim of removing some these royalties we need to enter into agreements geographical inefficiencies arising from previous with marketing partners.
The timing and structure acquisitions.
We now have a simplified structure of these agreements by their nature cannot be that will improve our ability to develop products predicted accurately.
Therefore at our current for partners and for ourselves.
Regrettably this stage of development, when milestone payments has involved a reduction of about 10% in our still represent a significant proportion of our staff numbers.
Although there was a cost of income, there is bound to be a degree of 2.7 million in 2003 and further costs in 2004, uncertainty about our forecast revenues.
there will be significant savings going forward.
Attempting to complete negotiations on a new As previously indicated, I will be stepping down agreement within the rather artificial timeframe as Executive Chairman at the Annual General imposed by a financial reporting period is Meeting on 23 June and seeking reappointment impractical and can even be counter-productive.
Since founding What is important for the Company and for SkyePharma in 1996, I have seen the company shareholders are deal structures that optimise develop a strong internal organisation and long-term royalty income rather than ensuring I am confident that I can leave day-to-day that one-off payments are made by a certain date.
management in the capable hands of Michael In our 5 January Trading Update, we reported Ashton and his team.
My particular area of that three key licence agreements which we expertise is in establishing new companies had expected to conclude in 2003 were still in and I have a number of other interests where negotiation.
These consisted of the European these skills can more appropriately be applied.
rights for DepoMorphine: an unnamed pipeline However shareholders can be assured that my product: and a package of products in the decision does not imply any loss of confidence pulmonary field.
Of these, the latter was the in SkyePharmas potential and I shall continue to largest licensing opportunity.
We also indicated be closely involved with the companys progress.
that, because of certain internal and external developments in the second half of 2003, Outlook we had decided to reject a substantial offer This year we expect two important new products, we had received for this package.
DepoMorphine and Foradil Certihaler, to reach the market, underpinning an expected further The first of the deals deferred from 2003 to substantial increase in royalty income.
This and be completed was finalised in April, when we the conclusion of recent deals and the status announced that we had granted an exclusive of those still pending make me confident in the licence for DepoMorphine in Europe to Medeus outcome for the year.
Pharma, on terms which we believe are highly satisfactory.
These involve milestone payments in excess of a100 million US$120 million and a share of sales that varies between 35% and Ian Gowrie-Smith 50% depending on sales levels.
These terms Executive Chairman SkyePharma annual report 2003
