Chairmans Statement Strategy for growth.
htm While we are pleased to report further The business remains very strong progress in rebuilding profitability, we financially.
Good cash flow and continuing Pre-tax profit rose 57% to recognise that the pace of recovery was proceeds from the sale of surplus not fast enough.
However, we have made properties have enabled us to maintain a 34.8 million the necessary organisational changes and healthy ungeared balance sheet, despite are now back on track.
significantly increased capital investment Capital investment up 62% to some 190 million last year.
Somerfield now has a very strong This investment was concentrated on the executive team managing one of the 190 million Somerfield refit programme and the largest store portfolios in the retail sector.
construction of a new distribution centre We are beginning to see good returns in the North West of England: other Like-for-like sales from past years investment in store refits important items were the continuing and product development, and we expect 1.0% Group improvement of our logistics and IT sales growth to gather momentum as this operations and the start of the Kwik Save investment continues.
Performance Shareholder value The underlying profit growth was 24%, In view of the Groups continuing taking pre-tax profits before exceptional progress, the directors are pleased to items to 25.8 million.
Exceptional profits recommend a final dividend of 1.25p per totalling 9.0 million consisted of proceeds share.
This makes a total for the year of from property disposals, partially offset by 1.65p per share, an increase of 65% on closure costs relating to our depot the previous year.
The 8 million cost is rationalisation.
Taking these into account, well covered by the years attributable the attributable pre-tax profit rose 57% to profit of 39.8 million.
We have more stores than any other Margins remain stable and our quoted grocery food retailer in the UK.
promotional programmes are better As part of our current portfolio review we balanced so that they stimulate sales undertook a revaluation exercise on a without forfeiting profitability.
We continue sample of 121 stores and a desktop to make good progress in controlling costs exercise on the remainder of the estate in and making the business leaner.
order to estimate the current value of all Like-for-like sales improved at both the other stores.
Even at conservative Somerfield and Kwik Save up 1% overall valuations, this suggested that the but fell short of the goals we had set for aggregate value of our property portfolio is ourselves.
now understated by some 250 million.
The Somerfield store refit programme The Board is aware that the Companys continues to produce exciting sales uplifts market capitalisation, as reflected in the it was the primary driver of growth in share price, has been well below the net Group sales last year.
We are now asset value and realisable value of the beginning to see similar results in Kwik business during the year.
Our strategy is Save as we roll out its new retail format.
designed to narrow the gap and The 14 pilot stores that have been refitted eventually to eliminate it, creating a are achieving sales uplifts ranging from business whose earnings-based valuation 13% to 55%.
2 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 3 Facts We now have more than 6,000 own label products, 65 fresh organic lines and over 300 organic products in our Somerfield and Kwik Save stores nationwide.
4 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 Chairmans Statement continued www.
htm Strategy time by extending existing smaller stores providing an additional impetus for footfall and cash flow.
To develop our own During the year we undertook a detailed and, where the demographics support the review of our strategies for both fascias.
change, transferring a few stores to forecourt offer further we have acquired 12 sites from an independent operator, We reconfirmed following some Somerfield.
The average store for Kwik refinement the plans for the Somerfield Save is expected to remain at around Margram Holdings, and merged them with our existing forecourt operation under a fascia and refocused our strategy for Kwik 8,000sq ft. Save to reflect experience in the newsingle management team.
Eight of the We have moved quickly to meet customer new sites have existing convenience format stores, and customer research on demand for enhanced own label ranges.
In addition to driving stores, which we have converted to the Somerfield we launched the budget Makes Somerfield fascia.
The remaining four are organic growth through our two existing Sense range and in Kwik Save we store estates, we have also been currently under development.
developed an own label range and the developing two new business streams Simply range of cheapest on display Over the next three years we intend to under the Somerfield brand petrol everyday essentials.
With a centralised open more forecourt sites.
Margram will station forecourts and franchise buying unit serving both fascias, we were seek out and develop new sites to our operations.
We already have many good able to create these ranges extremely specification, and we are also looking to stores in great locations and through our quickly the two Kwik Save ranges went acquire sites from third parties ranging modern and developing national supply from concept to national distribution from multiple operators to individual chain, existing convenience stores estate within three months.
and excellent and expanding developing common suppliers for both Somerfield and Franchise product range, we are confident of Kwik Save ranges we have made the most We see significant opportunities for delivering our strategy for growth.
of our group buying power while developing Somerfield franchises with a In Somerfield we are accelerating the pace strengthening our relationships with number of partners, and are currently of the store refurbishment programme.
working with TM Retail TM to develop a This began some 18 months ago and we partnership model.
Under a pilot New business streams are very pleased with the sales uplifts it Small, local convenience stores are now programme we are converting six stores has been generating.
Experience with the into convenience outlets trading under a the fastest-growing segment of the first stores to be refurbished shows that grocery sector.
We are already strongly joint Somerfield Martins fascia.
the immediate boost to sales after refitting placed in this area and are developing two TM will fund the conversions and operate is followed by further sustained growth in ways to strengthen our position costthe stores and we will provide expertise the second year.
Somerfield has particular effectively: petrol station forecourts and and a full range of fresh, ambient and strength in fresh food and over time we franchise operations.
Both of these new frozen food, both branded and own label.
will be adjusting the portfolio to increase business streams capitalise on our The fourth of these stores opened on 25 the emphasis on convenience stores: we strength in delivering a quality fresh food June 2003.
The stores are in Cheadle expect eventually to reduce the average offer to neighbourhood stores nationwide.
Hulme, Great Sutton, Parbold and Holmes store size from 8,700sq ft today to around Chapel.
All six will be open by October and Forecourts 6,000sq ft. Six years ago we began a joint venture initial results are encouraging.
Before we could begin large-scale with Elf to open Somerfield convenience Logistics and IT investment in Kwik Save we had to stores on petrol station forecourts.
Last A key element in our recovery programme develop a viable new retail format and year we took a fresh look at our 18 is the rationalisation of our supply chain address a number of operational issues existing forecourt sites and sharpened-up and IT systems to reduce overheads and that were holding the business back.
The effect was increase efficiency.
It has made good Save has now met both of these dramatic.
In the last quarter of the year progress to date.
objectives and begun to increase sales they have been the fastest growing part of growth.
With the new retail format fully The rationalisation of our distribution our business, with sales increases of tried and tested, we have been able to network is progressing well.
start transforming the Kwik Save estate.
merger with Kwik Save in 1998 we operated Forecourts represent a significant The format is ideally suited to 6,000 to 34 depots.
This is now down to 22 and we opportunity for Somerfield to develop new 12,000sq ft stores.
Our portfolio of smaller intend to reduce it to 15 over time.
stores economically, with petrol sales stores will therefore be reconfigured over Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 5 IT and logistics investment of 60 million We now employ 54,000 people New distribution centre of 644,417sq ft Facts Following a revaluation exercise of our property portfolio, at conservative valuations, the aggregate value of our properties is understated by some 250 million.
6 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 Chairmans Statement continued www.
htm Our new North West regional distribution we can restructure and exit from We have no plans for further change: the centre at Lea Green, St Helens, underperforming locations without Company now has a very experienced Merseyside opened on time and on weakening our balance sheet or profits.
management team, all with food retail budget in May 2003.
This 644,417sq ft experience and totally committed to Cost control multi-temperature facility serves the North making the Group a first-class business.
As part of the overall Group strategy, cost West of England, replacing five depots in control has been recognised as an Corporate social responsibility the North West and Midlands.
A central part of our strategy is to make essential element in delivering growth and As we increase the efficiency of our shareholder returns.
The Board has set a each of our stores a focal point in the distribution systems, we have been able to community it serves.
It is therefore target to realise cost savings of around reduce stock levels across the Group.
100 million over the next three years, the essential that we behave responsibly During the year we took a further 35 towards our own people, our neighbours, majority of which will be reinvested into million out of inventory, bringing the total our customer offer to drive growth.
other stakeholders including shareholders below 300 million.
A drive to increase the and suppliers, and the wider environment.
People efficiency of the last 50 yards from the You will find more information on how we The success of our recovery programme back door to the display shelf is contributing do this on page 12 and in the expanded depends partly on getting the strategy to an uplift in on-shelf availability and further corporate social responsibility section of right but also on the skills, energy and reducing inventory costs.
determination of the 54,000 people who Our IT systems are now in the third year of We are particularly proud of the work done together make up the Group.
We are a five-year transformation programme of grateful to all of them for their help and by our colleagues throughout the consolidation and simplification.
In the first organisation to raise funds for national and determination in driving the business two years we have established a single forward.
Our chosen charity for 2002 product code database to replace the was the Meningitis Trust, for which we We made significant changes at the top of previous three and simplified store raised 1.4 million.
We also raised the business during the year.
To simplify replenishment systems from three to two.
the management structure, Alan Smith During the year we piloted the new We are proud of these achievements and agreed to step down as Chief Executive in MyPeople HR system which we are fully grateful for all the support we had from October and I took sole responsibility for implementing this year.
We also began the our suppliers and employees.
As well as rollout of new generation tills which will Outlook Alan, three other executive directors left complete a common EPoS system for the Group Board Marketing Director Despite very competitive conditions, we both Somerfield and Kwik Save fascias.
intend to improve our performance this Stephen Barnett, Finance Director Martin Property Gatto and Kwik Save Managing Director year.
We have clearly defined strategies for The new North West distribution centre both our retail formats and our support Graham Maguire and two non-executive has been sold under a sale and leaseback directors, Derek Williams and Gareth services, IT and logistics.
We have an agreement: the 11.8 million profit on experienced and effective management Jones, retired.
We thank them all for their disposal will fall into the financial year contribution to the business and the team.
Our retail formats are right and 2003 04, offsetting depot closure costs and delivering good returns as we invest in recovery programme.
contributing to our continuing investment them.
We have available funds to utilise in We welcomed two new Board members.
Earlier in the year we concluded driving sales growth, without risking the Group Finance Director Steve Back joined a similar sale and leaseback deal on our Companys financial stability.
We expect to us from Budgens and Martin Oakes, who Wellingborough depot, which generated a accelerate organic growth, and to is responsible for logistics and IT on the profit on disposal of 8.1 million.
supplement it with revenues from our new group executive committee, joined the forecourt and franchising operations.
During the year we closed 41 unprofitable Board and took additional responsibility for stores, mostly Kwik Save.
Closure costs new business development.
In addition, were more than covered by proceeds from Robin Whitbread, who had previously the disposal of leases and freeholds.
The joined the Board as Group Buying Director, inherent value in properties that are extended his responsibilities by becoming surplus to our requirements means that Managing Director of Kwik Save.
John von Spreckelsen Executive Chairman Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 7
