1 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Chairmans Letter Dear Shareholder with them.
Paul Cheng retired from the Board at the end of the year and I would like to thank As anticipated the challenging conditions in him for his valuable contributions since he joined the telecoms market continued throughout in 1996.
We have also made substantial progress 2003 and our results for the year reect the during the year in embracing the evolving best ongoing reductions in capital spending by our practices in relation to environmental, ethical and Communications groups customers.
I would encourage you to visit our some improvement in activity levels in the latter website where much of this information is reported.
part of the year and as a result were able to deliver an increase in turnover and operating profit in On 25 February 2004 it was announced that the second half compared with the first.
Both Nicholas Brookes had informed the Board of our Network Products and Systems businesses his intention to retire as Chief Executive of the performed well.
Cash generation during the year Company.
During Nicks tenure as Chief Executive, was good and this, coupled with the disposal of Spirent has been transformed into a leading our WAGO joint venture, enabled us to achieve a technology company and the Board would like substantial reduction in net debt by the year end.
to thank him for his outstanding achievements.
Aformal process to nd a successor is under way.
All in all 2003 has been a year of considerable underlying progress for Spirent.
Following the Our strategic focus remains our communications renegotiation of the Companys borrowing terms activities, which we believe hold good opportunities early in the year, the focus has been very much for growth as the telecoms market migrates to nexton controlling costs to keep pace with the difficult generation network technologies.
We remain at the market conditions.
Throughout the downturn forefront of technological development and believe we have maintained a strong commitment to this will put us at an advantage as markets recover.
investment in product development and have Yours faithfully focused on positioning the businesses to benefit from the recovery as it develops.
This has enabled us to maintain our positions in the markets in which we operate, buoyed by new customer wins and new product launches.
We have expanded the expertise of the Board with the appointments of Andrew Given and Fred DAlessio as non-executive directors.
They both have substantial experience of international John P Weston CBE technology markets and we look forward to working Chairman Spirent plc is a public limited company registered in England.
Its Ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange and, in the form of American Depositary Shares, on the New York Stock Exchange.
This report is the Annual Report of Spirent plc for the year to 31 December 2003 and complies with UK regulations.
The Annual Report is available on Spirents website at www.
com A separate Annual Report on Form 20-F is being prepared to meet US regulations and will be led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission by 30 June 2004.
