Chairmans Statement This Annual Report sets out a number of outstanding achievements and the credit Dr Bruce Farmer CBE for these must go to our employees, Chairman whose dedication and hard work keeps Scottish and Southern Energy at the forefront of its peer group.
Scottish and Southern Energy produced to create value for our shareholders by another sound financial and operational running the business in a way which is performance in 2003.
The results were safe, responsible, customer-focused and achieved in a challenging environment commercially aware.
Key to everything through a strong focus on the management we do is our focus on delivering operational of our core businesses.
excellence across all of our activities.
This Annual Report sets out a number of Profit before tax and goodwill rose by outstanding achievements.
Underlying earnings these must go to our employees, whose per share increased by 2.5% to 53.1p.
dedication and hard work keeps Scottish The Board is recommending a full-year and Southern Energy at the forefront of its dividend of 35p per share, an increase of peer group.
The Board and I would like to 8% on the previous year.
The full-year thank them most sincerely for their efforts.
dividend is covered 1.6 times by earnings.
This years increase is ahead of our In September 2002, Jim Forbes retired dividend policy, which commits to delivering as Chief Executive, after many years of at least 4% annual real dividend growth to devoted and highly successful service.
In view of the continued strength of He was awarded the CBE in the New Years our business and the Boards confidence in Honours List.
Ian Marchant, previously our growth plans, this target has been Finance Director, became Chief Executive extended to 2005. in October.
Colin Hood, formerly Power Systems Director, took on the expanded role Scottish and Southern Energy continues to of Chief Operating Officer and Gregor have one of the strongest balance sheets in Alexander, formerly the Group Treasurer the global electricity sector and this gives us and Tax Manager, joined the Board in considerable opportunity to create value October 2002 as Finance Director.
In September 2002, appointments were widely welcomed.
we acquired the gas storage business at Hornsea in Yorkshire for 132.7m and, In June 2003 Nick Timpson is retiring as in early April, a telecoms business, a non-Executive Director of the company, Neoscorp Ltd, for 13.4m.
Both are very having given many years of invaluable complementary to our existing businesses.
We will miss his wise counsel.
Hornsea made a good contribution to Joining the Board are three new earnings in its first six months of ownership.
non-Executive Directors: Sir Robert Smith, Chairman of the Weir Group: Susan Rice, Our balance sheet strength also allowed Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Scotland: us to buy back and cancel just under three and Ren Mdori, Finance Director of the million of the companys ordinary shares BOC Group.
They bring broad and diverse at an aggregate consideration of 18.1m experience and a complementary range of and an average price of 601p per share.
skills to the Board which will be of By improving control of our working capital immense value in the future.
and debtors, together with reduced finance charges, due to new, lower cost, long-term The development of Scottish and Southern funding, our free net cash flow was 135m.
Energy will continue to be based on delivering solid sustainable performance We continue to improve our service to from our core activities.
On the Ofgem performance significant investment opportunities which measures our continuity of supply was one we can pursue due to our carefully of the best in the country and our safety maintained financial strength.
We will record was also among the best.
We were continue to meet increasing challenges going commended by the DTI as a benchmark forward, from regulation, environmental company for our performance in preparing needs, new technology and competition.
for and responding to the severe storm of October 2002.
I believe that our management capability, our overall strategy and the way we run our Our post merger annualised cost savings business will ensure that we continue to be have now reached 164m, compared to the a very successful company in the future.
We will continue Scottish and Southern Energy plc 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2003
