SSL International plc 02 Chairmans Message Annual Report 2003 We have now completed our second full year as a new management team and I am pleased to report excellent progress in returning the Group to financial health and in developing our strategy for the future, based on the strength of Durex, Scholl and our other Consumer healthcare brands.
Results The results for the year show that three key objectives were achieved: sales recovered as our decision to cease trade loading was vindicated: costs were reduced in both the Dividend product supply and Group overhead Your Board is recommending areas increasing pre-exceptional an unchanged final dividend of operating profit by 52 per cent to 8.4p, making a total for the year, 82 million: and significant free cash also unchanged, of 12.3p.
The final Ian Martin flow was generated, enabling the dividend will be paid on 4 September Chairman dividend to be maintained and fully 2003 to shareholders on the register covered for the first time since the on 8 August 2003. merger with Scholl in 1998.
Strategic Development Our sales in the year grew five per During the year, the Board completed cent to 624 million, our gross a thorough review of the Groups margin grew to 58 per cent and our operations, its strengths and operating margin, before exceptional weaknesses, and its opportunities items, achieved our target of over for delivering shareholder value 13 per cent.
Earnings per share growth in the future.
On the basis were 13.1 pence compared of the review, we concluded that to a loss of 7 pence last year.
shareholders interests would best be served by focusing resources on our Consumer healthcare businesses, which includes the Durex and Scholl brands, and by divesting our Medical business, as well as our industrial gloves business.
03 12.3 03 13.1 02 12.3 02 7.0 01 12.3 01 13.5 Dividend per share pence Basic earnings per share pence Chairmans Message continued SSL International plc 03 Annual Report 2003 The Medical portfolio includes Outlook Regent surgical gloves, Hibi antiseptic The current year presents the twin and the wound management challenges of completing the major business: collectively amounting disposals and driving forward the to 182 million in sales in the year profitability and growth of our to 31 March 2003.
This will involve process is now well underway and both highly creative marketing and has generated a substantial level selling and major cost reductions in of interest.
The new year has begun satisfactorily and we are Completion of these disposals will Directors confident that these challenges will give management the opportunity In April, Andrew Slater, who became be met successfully, in both the to focus on the Consumer business.
a Director in 1999 following the current year and into the future.
Here, there are encouraging signs merger with London International that the increased flow of new Group, resigned from his position Ian Martin, Chairman products backed by strong as Managing Director of the 4 June 2003 advertising is yielding results.
Andrew Greater financial resources resulting had been with the Group for nearly from the divestment will drive 21 years and has held a number further development.
This, coupled of senior operational roles in the with a continuing strong focus UK and overseas: his contribution on cost control will, we believe, and energy will be missed and we lead to significantly enhanced wish him well in the future.
In May, Alain Strasser our NonExecutive Director resident in France, resigned from his non-executive post, recognising that a recent increase in his other international activities meant that he could no longer give sufficient time to his duties at SSL.
Alains experience and counsel was of great value to the Group and he goes with our best wishes for future success.
