S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2003 C HAIRMAN S S TATEMENT The results for the 52 weeks ended 1 August 2003 show turnover of Results 437.2 million 2002 466.8 million and profit before taxation, exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill of 36.9 million 2002 36.1 million.
There was a net exceptional cost of 119,000 2002 9,549,000. profit before taxation was 34.6 million 2002 24.3 million.
Earnings per share, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were 23.45p 2002 24.33p.
Basic earnings per share were 21.82p 2002 15.40p.
A final dividend of 12.15p per share is recommended, making total Dividends dividends of 17.15p per share in respect of the year, the same as for the previous year.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 4 December 2003 to shareholders on the register on 7 November 2003.
Demand for books in the UK remained resilient and was reinforced by Trading Conditions sales of a number of best selling titles.
In all our other markets trading conditions were extremely challenging throughout the year.
Demand was weak as a result of reduced advertising expenditure, especially for longer run, less targeted products, and was also subject to significant short term uctuations, which made it difficult to achieve satisfactory utilisation.
Activity was particularly low in the last quarter of our financial year, especially in Germany and the USA.
Corporate financial printing was consistently quiet.
The benets of the cost reductions which we implemented last year were mainly passed on to our customers in lower prices, brought about by reduced demand and industry over capacity in all the geographic regions in which we operate.
Upward pressure on costs, largely resulting from changes in tax and employment legislation, continued.
In the circumstances, we did well to achieve turnover which was only some 6 per cent below the previous year and make a modest improvement in margin and profit.
Overall, considerable progress in the UK and the Netherlands was offset by weak performances in the USA and Germany.
Clays had an excellent year and consolidated its position as the Books leading supplier of monochrome books to the UK trade and general market.
We were again able to grow our market share because of the exible service which we offer our customers and, as in the past, produced a very high proportion of best selling titles, most notably Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix by J K Rowling for Bloomsbury.
We continue to supply nearly all the leading UK trade and general publishers with cased and or paperback books.
During the year we invested in additional pre-press equipment as well as web and sheet fed presses, which enabled us to enhance our service offering further.
3 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2003 C HAIRMAN S S TATEMENT continued Direct Response and In the UK, demand for longer run, less specialist work has been Commercial patchy and pricing weak.
We sharpened our focus on time-sensitive, UK shorter run work and have gained more of this business from both existing and new customers, including the Government and Government agencies.
As a result, although our sales were down overall, more specialised work accounted for a higher proportion and accordingly profit and margins improved.
During the year we expanded our production facilities offering personalisation and mailing services, by moving to larger premises at our Romford site.
USA In the USA sales to direct response and commercial markets were lower because of reduced advertising and promotional expenditure especially in the travel, automotive and leisure sectors and amongst customers requiring high quality retail and direct mail catalogues.
We experienced further pricing pressure and significant short term variations in demand, giving rise to periods of poor utilisation, especially in the last quarter of the financial year.
In these circumstances, it regrettably proved necessary to make a further reduction in the number of employees.
Germany Johler Druck continued to experience weak demand and competitive pricing in economic conditions which have not been favourable.
As a result sales were lower and losses increased.
Financial Activity in corporate financial markets remained extremely subdued throughout the year in the UK, Europe and the USA, with the result that sales were below the level of the previous year.
Our continued reorganisation unfortunately resulted in further reductions in stafng levels.
We maintained our market share, but the volume of business was not sufficient to enable us to trade profitably in this market.
We increased our share of the printing of Annual Reports for FTSE companies.
However, both in the UK and the USA some annual report work was won at lower prices and to less demanding specications than in the previous year.
Magazines Magazine paginations have been very variable both amongst titles UK and from issue to issue.
Fashion and lifestyle titles were more robust than those dependent on travel and leisure advertising.
Sales were lower overall and demand was particularly weak in the last quarter of the financial year.
The pricing environment remained extremely competitive.
During the year we won some new business but not so as to offset completely the effect on profitability of lower paginations and some title closures.
We are now fully invested in digital computer-to-plate systems at all our sites, which will enable us further to reduce the lead times which we can offer our customers and increase exibility.
USA In the USA, paginations were more stable but we experienced increasing pricing pressure during the year.
The benets of the cost reductions implemented over the last eighteen months through the consolidation of our operations in south Florida were insufficient to offset fully the effect on profitability of lower volumes and prices.
4 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2003 The market for music and multimedia products remained subdued.
Multimedia However we increased sales, particularly of less time-sensitive products, which enabled us to improve utilisation and profitability at all three of our sites.
Growth in demand for specialist packaging and DVD related products offset reduced demand for standard audio CD packaging.
The move to new premises in Blackburn was completed towards the end of the previous financial year and the new factory is now fully operational.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank all employees who have Staff made a contribution to the business, especially in the current challenging environment.
We are pleased to welcome Patrick Martell to the board.
He has Board been with the group since 1980, for the last three years as Managing Director of our Book Division, and was appointed an executive director on 2 August 2003.
Graham Menzies will leave the board at the AGM on 3 December 2003, having served just over 6 years as a non-executive director.
We are grateful to him for his advice during the period of his membership of the board.
We hope to be able to announce the appointment of a further non-executive director shortly.
The balance sheet remains strong: at the year end, net assets were Balance Sheet almost 241 million and net cash has almost doubled to 26.3 million.
Capital expenditure during the year was nearly 20 million 2002 35.6 million.
The UK market for monochrome books is steady, although sales of Outlook best selling titles are likely to have less impact than in the past year.
In all our other markets supply continues to exceed demand, pricing pressures are unabated and there is no current indication of a sustained or significant upturn in levels of activity.
Our markets in the USA and Germany are especially challenging.
We continue to concentrate on customers and markets with exacting service and quality requirements.
Our Companys financial strength and our long standing commitment to investment in people, systems and equipment, in order to enhance service, improve productivity and maintain cost effectiveness, is more important than ever in an environment where employment and other costs continue to rise.
In the short term, we are unlikely to be able to make more than modest progress, but in the longer term we remain confident in the potential of our Companys strong competitive position in its chosen markets.
