Stagecoach Group has made positive progress this year towards achieving its key strategic objectives despite challenging issues within the transport sector and a difficult economic environment.
Chairmans statement 2003 Stagecoach Group has made positive progress this year towards prospects for the Group and, based on continued strong and achieving its key strategic objectives despite challenging issues stable cash flows and profits within the business, we will look within the transport sector and a difficult economic environment.
to increase the dividend each year.
Across the Group, we are seeing strong cash generation from Our two key priorities in recent months have been the each of our four key operating divisions and all are trading restructuring of our Coach USA operations following a profitably.
In the UK, our bus division has had a successful year comprehensive business review, and finalising the new South and is delivering increased operating margins with solid revenue West Trains franchise.
Focused management action on both and passenger volume growth.
We have agreed terms with the of these issues will deliver greater stability and certainty.
Strategic Rail Authority SRA for a new three-year franchise at South West Trains, which is one of the UKs largest rail At Coach USA we remain on course to deliver on our key franchises.
We are awaiting final approval of this new franchise restructuring objectives within the 12 to 18 month timetable we agreement from the Government.
Restructuring of our Coach set out in December 2002 and this will produce a smaller but USA division is progressing well.
Earlier this month, we nevertheless substantial and more robust business.
completed the disposal of our Citybus business in Hong Kong, while our New Zealand bus business continues to deliver strong We believe the financial and commercial terms we have agreed growth.
with the SRA for the new franchise at South West Trains will deliver a good and predictable return for our shareholders.
The Groups strong cash flow generation, coupled with the favourable movement in exchange rates, has allowed us to Virgin Rail Group in which we have a 49% interest is reduce debt for the long-term benefit of the business.
Net debt continuing to work with the SRA with a view to negotiating new reduced by 214.6m in the year ended 30 April 2003, from long-term commercial arrangements for both the West Coast 774.6m to 560.0m.
Subsequent to the year-end we have and CrossCountry franchises.
Both franchises are presently announced disposals with a gross consideration of approximately receiving SRA funding on the basis of a one year budget set by 300m.
Of these proceeds, approximately 20m relates to the SRA for the period to February 2004.
We remain confident deferred consideration and the remainder will initially be used that new franchise terms can be agreed that will secure to reduce Group debt.
Turnover for the year ended 30 April 2003 was 2,076.6m Our UK Bus operations are producing revenue and passenger 2002 2,111.4m.
Total operating profit before goodwill volume growth, most notably where we work closely with amortisation and exceptional items was 146.4m forward-looking local authorities.
Earnings per share on an equivalent basis successful in the London market.
We are also pleased that the were up at 6.4 pence 2002 6.3 pence.
Government has taken forward our Kick Start proposals for targeted funding to support the introduction of new services and help reinvigorate the UK Bus network.
The Board of Directors is recommending that the total dividend for the year is 2.6 pence per share 2002 2.6 pence.
This In the Overseas Bus division, performance at our New Zealand comprises the interim dividend of 0.8 pence 2002 1.3 pence businesses, where we are seeing strong growth, continues to be and a proposed final dividend of 1.8 pence per share very satisfactory.
Citybus, our Hong Kong bus operation, has 2002 1.3 pence.
The Board has firm confidence in the future 4 Robert Speirs Chairman been an excellent investment for the Group since 1999.
However, I was happy to accept the invitation, in December 2002, to the Board received an approach for the business and felt it was continue as Chairman of the Board.
We have been working appropriate to review the strategic options for Stagecoach Group closely to refocus the company and I am confident Stagecoach in the region.
In view of the limited opportunities to develop Group has a dedicated senior management team and a significantly elsewhere in other Pacific Rim countries and the committed Board that will ensure the Group continues to thrive long-term prospects for the business in Hong Kong, we believe and deliver shareholder value.
the offer was a good one and that selling the business at this time was in the best interests of shareholders.
We have a clear strategy for the Group and are on schedule with our sales programme and restructuring at Coach USA.
The sale of Citybus has put the Group in a strong financial position, further ROBERT SPEIRS fide-risking the Groups portfolio, and will allow management to Chairman focus on developing our UK bus and rail businesses, a smaller but 25 June 2003 more robust North American business and our successful New Zealand operations.
The Group continues to be a leading international transport company with a strong portfolio of cash generative businesses.
Following the business review in North America, I was delighted to announce six months ago that Brian Souter had taken up the position of Chief Executive on a permanent basis.
His energy and entrepreneurial vision have been the driving force behind the Group and the considerable work he has done in restructuring our US operations is laying firm foundations for a stronger North American business.
