Chairmans Statement Competing to win, LEONARD STEINBERG, Executive Chairman taking on the best I am delighted by the growth in our profitability over the last As a result of this performance and the continuing growth in three years from the 20s to the 30s and into the 40s before profitability over the last few years we have decided to raise our goodwill amortisation is a major achievement.
proposed final dividend to 6.1p, up 22% on last years 5.0p.
The total dividend for the year is thus 8.6p, an increase of 21% Our results would have been even better but we suffered during on last years 7.1p.
This will be paid on 22 September 2003 to March at Cheltenham and Doncaster, where we experienced a shareholders on the register on 22 August 2003. significant profit reduction compared with last year, and made a number of necessary changes in our provincial casinos which At the year-end we have had a full professional revaluation of further reduced our final figure.
Both of these were offset by the Groups properties on an existing use basis, including the improvements from our international betting business and our benefit of casino and betting office licences.
This has resulted in London casinos.
a revaluation surplus of 224m, which has been credited to the Revaluation reserve and strengthened our Balance Sheet.
Financial results Group turnover increased 35% from 743m to just over 1 billion, Gaming at 1,001m.
Profit before taxation rose from 35.8m to 39.5m, an Turnover in the gaming division rose 20% from 150m to 180m.
Profit before taxation and goodwill amortisation 15m of this increase came from the seven casinos we acquired was also up 10%, from 37.5m to 41.3m: this consolidates our in the early part of the year: excluding these acquisitions the position following the significant 40% profit improvement on the turnover was up 10%.
Profit before taxation and goodwill same basis last year.
Earnings per share rose 8% from 20.9p to amortisation for the division rose 9% from 33.8m to 36.7m.
22.6p: before goodwill amortisation, the increase in earnings per share was 7% from 22.5p to 24.1p.
2003 Annual Report and Accounts 01 Chairmans Statement continued We had an uneven performance in our provincial casinos, partly as circumstances.
Perhaps we are being self-critical, but continuing a result of a number of changes we made to the business.
During to learn and improve is important for you as shareholders.
the year, we began the process ofpreparing our provincial estate in anticipation of industry deregulation.
We took the opportunity I also mentioned last year the death of John Aspinall.
This year I to roll out four new games across our estate: progressive casino am equally sorry to report the death of Garry Nesbitt, the former stud poker, three card poker, Sic Bo a dice game and the Big Chairman of Capital Corporation PLC.
Although I only saw him Six Money Wheel.
The initial customer reaction to these games occasionally, he was a good friend.
In particular, progressive poker has been well received, producing a number of jackpot payouts in excess Betting of 100,000.
Interest in these progressive jackpots augurs well Turnover in the betting division increased by 38% from 593m for the new gaming machine regime post-deregulation.
The increase in the first half of the year was 30%, driven primarily by the continuing Poker is probably the most widespread private card game played effect of the change in taxation regime to Gross Profits Tax: the in Great Britain today two interesting quotes are: Aces are second half growth of 46% reflected the combination of continued larger than life and greater than mountains, by Mike Caro, and significant growth beyond the anniversary of the tax change and Gambling is a way of buying hope on credit by Johnny Moss, the first time impact of high levels of turnover from the new Fixed world poker champion three times.
Over the last two years the divisions turnover has grown by 70%.
At the same time as introducing these games, we invested in and implemented a new food offering, which is consistent across Profit before taxation was 5% below last year at 20.3m against our provincial estate and is tailored to the needs of our gaming 21.4m.
As we reported in April, we had a difficult Cheltenham customers.
Festival which produced perhaps the worst set of results from our perspective for over 20 years and the following two weeks Our staff performed well in difficult circumstances with this showed no improvement.
In the betting business, runs of good or level of operational change.
The benefits from the significant bad luck are not unusual.
However, the size of the profit reduction changes to the business did not materialise in the year: however, against last year at one of the peak turnover periods of the year the estate is now repositioned and in the year ahead there are no was significant.
Although it did not have a dramatic one-day effect further operational changes planned to deflect us from improving like the Dettori day, when results are poor one does not want it our profits once again.
We are now in a better position to move to happen at peak trading periods.
In addition, the timing of these forward and meet the challenges of the future.
three weeks so near to our year-end gave us no chance to recover the shortfall in the remaining weeks of our financial year.
Our London casinos performed well and experienced another record year: our turnover growth was well above that of the In keeping with the rest of the industry, diversifying the divisions London market.
product mix is an integral part of our strategy.
Our dependence on British horse racing continues to lessen with further growth in Last year I said that there had been considerable changes to betting on football and other sports and the emergence of FOBTs.
management and staff in gaming and the same has been true this year.
I am sure that these changes have made us a stronger Football continues to be one of the growth areas of business, company and we learn continuously to adapt to new situations and becoming more and more significant.
Turnover increases considerably when there is a series of major matches.
We hope 20 Stanley Leisure plc Chairmans Statement continued that with increased television screening our football business Incidentally, everybody in Liverpoolisproud that it has won the will continue to develop substantially in the future.
City of Culture Award for 2008.
Our EPOS system is now rolled out across the whole estate We bought our first casino in 1976 in Stockport and we have apart from the Republic of Ireland and provides enhanced managed over the ensuing 27 years to become the largest casino management information which will produce the anticipated cost operator in Great Britain in terms of number of casinos, turnover savings.
We continue to refurbish and resite shops with growth and profitability.
potential: we refurbished or resited 18 shops in the year.
This ongoing programme will accelerate as we prepare our estate for In the early days I always had a desire to take the Company public deregulation and we currently have 51 projects at various stages and this eventually happened in 1986 when we had 117 betting of completion.
shops and three casinos and our profits were just under 2m.
A lot of water has gone under the bridge since then.
Over the last few years we have been developing our betting business overseas.
Profits from this area were strong, with both Len Cowburn, our current Deputy Chairman, who has served as a Italy and Croatia performing well, the latter declaring a dividend Non-Executive Director since 1994, will retire at our forthcoming for the first time.
In both countries it is early days, but we are very Annual General Meeting and Robert Waddington will become our pleased with our international progress thus far.
I should like to pay tribute to Len for his wise counsel during his time on the Board: The Board he brought with him a wealth of experience and we wish him good I have decided, after consulting with my Board colleagues, to move health and happiness in the future.
from Executive Chairman to Non-Executive Chairman with effect from this years Annual General Meeting on 10 September 2003.
I am delighted to be able to announce the appointment of Tim Given this, I trust that I may be forgiven for a few sentimental Weller as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 11 July 2003. wanderings through the history of the business, which I hope Tim qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG, became a you will appreciate.
My late father died on 20 April 1955 hence partner in 1997, and is currently Group Finance Director of our financial year-end.
At the time of his death, the company Innogy Holdings plc.
Tim joined Innogy in January 2002 from comprised one small unlicensed betting shop in McMullens Granada plc, where he worked for a number of years as Director Lane, off Ravenhill Road in Belfast.
Records from that period are of Financial Control.
We look forward to welcoming Tim to our understandably scant and I am relying on my memory not as Board and wish him all possible success in his new position.
good as it used to be but I do recall that when Crepello won the 1957 Derby, our days takings were 200 and we won 99.
Its Management and staff price was 6 4 and, in those days, people didnt back favourites This year, as in every year, I have been supported by Directors, to the same extent as they do now.
management and staff this support has made the Group bigger, better and more profitable.
We now employ 6,824 staff, 3,031 I also remember the year 1966, when we had four shops, now male and 3,793 female.
My thanks to them all for their support.
trading under the name of L. Stanley Limited: our turnover for the year was 600,000 and our profit was the princely sum of Current trading and prospects 30,000.
From these early beginnings we moved to England in Our betting division has made a good start to the year.
Turnover 1977, acquiring a Liverpool betting office business called Mercury hascontinued to exceed expectations and results have been Racing.
As you are aware, we have been in Liverpool ever since.
2003 Annual Report and Accounts 03 Chairmans Statement continued running more in our favour.
The poor results of March have The Palm Beach is a well-established, popular mid-market casino, become a distant memory.
which has benefited from a 7m full structural refurbishment.
We believe this casino will be an excellent addition to our portfolio, With effect from 16 May, approval has been given for AWP as it operates in a different market segment to our other machines in our Jersey betting shops, with stakes and payouts London casinos.
the same as on the U. K. mainland.
Progress to date has been satisfactory.
Work on our state-of-the-art Star City casino development near Birmingham is continuing, with a view to opening before In gaming, our provincial estate has recovered from last years Christmas 2003. changes: from the second quarter onwards we anticipate that profits should be above last years levels.
This casino will have a similar layout and formula to our successful new site in central Manchester, The Circus, but will be over twice the size in readiness for the upside from anticipated deregulation.
I BELIEVE WE ARE Although the position is unclear, it does appear that it is probable that the Gambling Bill will not be contained within the Queens Speech this Autumn.
However, we understand that Parliamentary IDEALLY PLACED drafting is continuing and were pleased to see that it has been agreed to appoint a Joint Committee from both the House of Commons and the House of Lords to consider and report on the TO MEET THE draft Gambling Bill by 8 April 2004.
This will give the entire industry an opportunity to comment on the Governments proposals.
We are hopeful that a revised Bill will be published soon after that OPPORTUNITIES date, with the Government aiming to enact the Bill at an early opportunity thereafter.
WHICH DEREGULATION Always being optimistic, I hope any delay will be a short one.
In keeping with my approach to always look on the bright side, if there is a delay it would give us time to get our management WILL BRING structures even more honed up than they are at the moment and also to prepare our expansion plans in greater detail.
However, in our London casinos, although turnover levels have been satisfactory, the win margin has been affected by some I am also pleased to announce that we have signed a new banking losses to major players.
At this stage in our financial year there agreement at an enhanced commitment level of 275m.
This is every opportunity for this trend to change, but it should be facility gives us the necessary funding to develop the business remembered that in the first half of last year these casinos over the next few years.
The Board remains confident about produced an exceptional result.
producing another satisfactory result for 2003 04.
I believe we are ideally placed to meet the opportunities which deregulation On 23 May 2003 we completed the acquisition of the Palm Beach will bring: exciting times are ahead.
casino in Mayfair, London from London Clubs International plc.
Leonard Steinberg, Chairman, 10 July 2003 40 Stanley Leisure plc
