Chairmans Total turnover of 550.1 million, Statement which includes the two Ditar companies acquired in January 2003, demonstrated good growth in many of our businesses.
We are delighted to report a record level Profit attributable to minority interests has Turnover million of profit and free cash flow, together with reduced during the year owing partially a further increase in dividends.
to difficult economic conditions prevailing in Asia for much of the year and also as The success of generic omeprazole sales a result of two modest investments in the to the USA was the key feature of a year final quarter.
In South Africa, we increased that saw the Pharma and Fine Chemicals our equity holding in Revertex Chemicals 2001 474.8 divisional operating profit increase by 60% SA from 75% to 100%, whilst in India, 2002 510.8 to 36.2 million.
In our largest division, an agreement was signed to take our Polymer Chemicals, the anticipated shareholding in James Robinson India 2003 550.1 reduction in the high price of oil did not Pvt Ltd from 51% to 66%.
materialise, resulting in continuing high raw material costs which placed constraints on Adjusted earnings per share of 27.6 pence efforts to develop margin growth.
Within show a strong advance of 15% compared Performance Chemicals, operating profit to the prior period.
Your directors have Profit before tax million advanced by a creditable 9%, despite proposed a final dividend of 7.7 pence restrictions on the operating capacity of per share, taking the total for the year to our ultramarine business and the impact 13.0 pence, an increase of 4%.
There is an exceptional credit to the profit Total turnover of 550.1 million, which and loss account of 4.7 million, which 2001 40.3 includes the two Ditar companies relates to the termination of businesses acquired in February 2003, demonstrated and the disposal of fixed assets.
In 2000 2002 52.6 good growth in many of our businesses.
we announced the withdrawal from the 2003 59.9 Profit before taxation was struck at textile dye market.
This was a very pleasing during 2003 of surplus land related to this 14% advance over the previous year manufacturing activity, the liabilities have despite the negative impact of exchange been successfully closed out more quickly rates and increased pension costs.
and favourably than originally expected, resulting in the release of provisions for Across the group, movements in foreign future costs.
Additionally, we have decided currency exchange rates have had to withdraw from the loss making activity 15% a mixed impact.
The strengthening of the of producing inks in France.
Euro has improved the translation of overseas results by 4 million.
However, increase in adjusted the weakening US Dollar, which accelerated rapidly towards the end of the year, was earnings per share significantly more detrimental to the value of transactions.
While forward hedging has provided a buffer, the full impact of the current level of exchange rates has yet to be reflected in our results.
A formal valuation of the main UK pension fund was conducted during the second half of the year.
In common with many UK groups, our scheme has a deficit which we have addressed by a combination of modifying certain benefits, higher employee contribution rates and increased payments from the group which, on an annualised basis, total 5 million.
04 05 Yule Catto & Co plc excludes amortisation, sale and termination of businesses and profit loss on disposal of fixed assets Annual Report 2003 Vigilant cash management continues to In an increasingly competitive environment, Performance Chemicals will benefit from be a priority.
An excellent free cash flow no company can be successful without the the restructuring initiatives implemented before dividends of 62.8 million has support and enthusiasm of its employees.
Together with assisted in reducing net borrowings to On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would more efficient production processes 177.3 million.
This was achieved as a like to recognise the invaluable contribution arising from capital investment, innovative result of a higher level of operating profit from all our employees around the world products are being directed at new combined with a strong working capital and thank them for their efforts on behalf markets.
However, the devaluation of the performance, which delivered a record of Yule Catto.
US Dollar is impacting margins.
net cash inflow from operating activities of 111.1 million.
Judicious investment in Outlook Whilst uncertainties surrounding currency fixed assets and the proceeds from the sale The long awaited contribution from the and raw materials are currently posing of land resulted in net capital expenditure launch of generic omeprazole in the USA increased challenges, we have positioned of 19.1 million, only 0.8 times depreciation.
has been a welcome boost to results the Group to be an efficient producer of during the last two years, generating speciality chemicals with up-to-date plant Further progress has been achieved in the a significant level of profit and cash.
increasingly located in cost advantageous very important area of safety, health and However, circumstances have changed areas to serve customers needs.
A new and more detailed with new entrants to the market in late of products and production methods, procedure for the investigation of near 2003.
As we look forward, the generic and often in conjunction with our customers miss incidents and first aid cases has ethical product development programme over long periods, is crucial to developing been introduced, which has delivered a for our active pharmaceutical ingredients and maintaining our market positions.
better insight into the root cause of business continues to widen and deepen, We see the benefits of this strategy potential accidents.
Undoubtedly this has with the benefits likely to emerge from throughout the Group and are confident contributed to the 22% improvement in 2005 onwards.
that it will provide a platform for further lost time accidents recorded.
A significant growth in the future.
reduction in the frequency of reportable In line with the chemical industry in environmental events has also been general, the persistently high price of oil achieved through concentrated effort by is continuing to make it difficult to predict our management teams.
We continue the cost of raw materials.
Margin recovery to target lower energy consumption per remains a key task through a focus on tonne of product manufactured and we pricing, new product introduction and are pleased to highlight that, at the interim production efficiencies.
By this means A E Richmond-Watson stage of the biennial testing period for the our Polymer companies are positioning 4 March 2004 UK Climate Change Levy programme, we themselves to maximise achievable are well placed to benefit once again from performance at all stages of the raw the maximum rebate.
In the meantime, we have invested heavily in new capacity, which has been fully commissioned and we are enjoying volume growth as new customers approve production from our appropriately sited facilities.
01 01 Uquifa, the portfolio of generic products in development is deepening and widening.
02 03 02 A selection of ultramarine blue, pink and violet pigments from Holliday Pigments.
03 Nitrile latex is now established as the base for synthetic disposable gloves which saw considerable growth in the medical and electronic industries.
