Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 chairmans statement Sir David Lees Chairman Overview 31 March 2003 were 33.0p Tate & Lyle in 1992, became a Director The year to 31 March 2003 saw another 2002 22.1p.
Diluted earnings in 1994 and Chief Executive in 1996. significant improvement in profitability per share after exceptional items The Board is grateful to him for the building on the progress made in the and goodwill amortisation were contribution he has made to the Group year to 31 March 2002.
There was a as an Executive over the last ten sales increased and the Groups return strong cash inflow of 189 million years.
It is also grateful to John Walker on net operating assets of more than 2002 318 million after payment who retired from the Board on 2 April 14% is starting to look respectable of dividends of 84 million.
John joined the Group over although there is more to go for.
The at 31 March 2003 was 471 million 35 years ago and had been a member balance sheet is stronger as a result 2002 639 million.
Interest cover, of the Board since 1993. of a good cash flow performance and excluding unusual interest credits, net debt of 471 million was less than improved to an underlying 6.8 times Iain Ferguson joined the Board as half of what it was two years ago and 2002 3.3 times.
Chief Executive on 1 May 2003. is lower than it has been at any time Iain was an Executive with Unilever in the last ten years.
Interest cover at Dividend for 26 years and his most recent 6.8 times, excluding unusual interest Although we have maintained the appointment was as Senior Vice credits, was also much improved.
dividend for the last two years the President, Corporate Development, Board has felt unable to recommend prior to which he was Executive Results an increase with a cover of less than Chairman of Birds Eye Walls.
He has Profit before tax, exceptional items 1.5 times and with relatively high net considerable experience of the global and goodwill amortisation increased to debt.
In the year just ended, the key food industry and his background in 228 million 2002 159 million with financial ratios have all improved science and technology equips him a stronger performance from Amylum and the Board, therefore, feels it well to lead Tate & Lyle through the and the full year benefit from the appropriate to resume the progressive next phase of its development.
Stanley disposal of our loss-making US sugar dividend policy to which it is Musesengwa was appointed to the businesses.
Profit before tax after committed in principle.
Board as an Executive Director on exceptional items and goodwill 2 April 2003 having joined Tate & Lyle amortisation was 187 million 2002 The total dividend proposed for the year in 1979.
He has held a number of 159 million.
Exceptional items in the is 18.3p 2002 17.8p and is covered different executive positions in the year to 31 March 2003 amounted to 1.8 times by earnings before exceptional Group and on 1 May 2003 was a net 33 million charge 2002 items and goodwill amortisation.
The appointed to the new role of Chief 8 million credit and include an proposed final dividend of 12.8p will Operating Officer, reporting to the operating exceptional charge of be due and payable on 6 August 2003 Chief Executive.
39 million primarily to write down to all shareholders on the register at the US and Mexican citric acid assets 11 July 2003.
This new management structure, to their estimated recoverable value.
comprising a Chief Executive and Goodwill amortisation was 8 million Directors a Chief Operating Officer, has been 2002 8 million.
As previously announced, Larry Pillard created to ensure that every relinquished his position as Chief opportunity is taken to enhance Diluted earnings per share before Executive at the end of 2002 and Group-wide operating efficiency exceptional items and goodwill became a Non-Executive Director while at the same time facilitating amortisation for the year to on 1 January 2003.
Larry joined the development of our strategy.
com Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 The challenge for our new management team is to improve efficiency, to further reduce costs, and to continue the development of the market for our value added and branded products.
Corporate Social Responsibility Most of these suggestions are larger share of our total business.
Pages 21 to 25 of this Report set uncontroversial but there are a few Our strategy is to continue this out our performance and policies as which the Board believes should be trend while never losing sight of the they relate to health and safety, the given further consideration by the opportunities available to us as a environment, employees, commercial Financial Reporting Council whose high quality low cost global starch partners and suppliers, and the responsibility it is to make and sweetener business.
communities in which we are involved.
amendments to the Combined Code.
It is encouraging to note that in most Outlook cases the Group continues to improve In particular, the Board believes that Most of our businesses continue to its performance and although the further consideration should be given perform well although the difficulties Group Safety Index for calendar year to the Higgs suggestion concerning experienced in our Eastern Sugar 2002 on page 21 shows some slippage the relationship between the Senior and Citric Acid operations, which compared with 2001, this is due to a Non-Executive Director, the major worsened as last year progressed, rise in the severity of some accidents Institutional Shareholders and the show no sign of abating.
rather than a rise in the overall number other Non-Executive Directors.
Consequently, we expect a more of incidents, which continues to The Board also believes that further even split of profits in the current year decrease.
The Group successfully met thought should be given to the than in the previous year when the the criteria for entry to FTSE4Good, proposals that the Chairman should first half was particularly strong.
the UK Corporate Social Responsibility not chair the Nominations Committee, Index.
Progress in all areas of that no individual Non-Executive We assess the outturn of the annual corporate social responsibility depends Director should sit on all three US and European sweetener pricing on the involvement and commitment principal Board Committees and rounds concluded last March as being of our employees and our appreciation that it should be exceptional for a sufficient to cover cost increases but for their efforts is recorded here.
Non-Executive Director to serve insufficient to impact on margins.
on a Board for more than six years.
With profits last year having benefited Corporate Governance Notwithstanding the above, from 11 million of unusual income, In the last year, two further Reports Tate & Lyle continues to be a profit growth in the current year will relating to the governance of strong supporter of high corporate be primarily dependent on our ability companies have become available governance standards, fully to improve efficiency, to further reduce for comment.
The Smith Report, recognising the importance of our cost base, and to continue the which provides guidance to assist adherence to the spirit as well as development of the market for our Company Boards in making suitable the letter of the law.
value added and branded products.
arrangements for their Audit This is the challenge which our new Committees is uncontentious as far as Strategy management team has accepted.
Tate & Lyle is concerned and we will Over the last two years the Groups have no difficulty in being compliant balance sheet has been significantly with all its main recommendations.
strengthened and our businesses The Higgs Report on the Role and are now increasingly focused.
Effectiveness of Non-Executive The Amylum integration project Directors contains a number of has delivered net benefits ahead of suggested changes to the Combined our original plans.
Our value added Sir David Lees Chairman Code on Corporate Governance.
and branded products now form a 4 June 2003 tateandlyle.
