Chairmans statement Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 8 9 turnover 1.2% profit 11.5% eps 10.8% For Trinity Mirror, 2003 was a year not only of transformation, but also one of achievement and delivery.
And it is quite something to be able to demonstrate both in a year in which Sly Bailey, our new Chief Executive, was in the post not even for a full year.
The financial performance itself was very satisfactory.
Group On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our appreciation operating profit improved from 190.5 million to 212.5 million to all members of the management and staff of Trinity Mirror for in the year just ended, an increase of 11.5 per cent.
Earnings their tremendous efforts over the year.
They have embraced per share also improved by 10.8 per cent over the previous willingly and enthusiastically the new leadership, and I am sure year.
These results represent the best delivery of shareholder that everyone will benefit from a more enjoyable and a more value by this Group for four years and will underpin the rewarding environment in which to work.
Companys drive for development and growth.
During the year, Roger Harrison retired from the Board.
Sly Baileys arrival in February 2003 signalled the beginning Roger gave immense service to Trinity Mirror over 12 years.
The management team has been refreshed His extensive knowledge of the media was of much benefit and the whole executive team has recognised and is committed to us.
We will miss his incisive thoughts and commitment but to improving performance at all levels and across all disciplines.
wish him well in his well-earned retirement.
Our strategies have been carefully evaluated, as have our structures and our people.
We now have in place a team that Mark Haysom left the Group after 11 years with us.
We wish can deliver the objectives set by the Board.
To date, even in him well and thank him for his contribution to the Trinity Mirror a challenging market place and with an uncertain macrobusiness over 11 years.
economic climate, the team has not disappointed.
I am very pleased to welcome David Ross to the Board.
As Chairman, it has been interesting to watch how both He brings a depth of independent knowledge to the Board management and staff have eagerly taken the opportunities and his extensive consumer experience and wider corporate offered to them to examine and embrace new ideas, to perspective will help us to continue with the implementation re-invigorate their attitude and to sharpen their commitment of our growth strategy.
to the business: we all want the success of Trinity Mirror.
As the media landscape changes, we are confident that we have the structures and teams in place to drive our business forward successfully.
We know what is core to our business and what is not, and we have taken clear action to focus the scope of our businesses and to direct that focus.
Our clarity of thinking has Sir Victor Blank removed uncertainty, rumour and speculation about our future.
The Group now has the self-confidence and commitment to succeed in a competitive market place, even when sometimes the playing field is a bit uneven!
On a like for like, pre exceptional items basis as defined in footnotes 1 and 2 on page 14.
