12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 12:44 PM Page 2 Chairmans Statement During 2003, Tullow continued the company strategy of growing production in its core areas through re-investment in exploration and development activities and suitable acquisitions.
We have streamlined our presence in non-core regions, selling or farming out interests in order to focus financial and management attention on the core areas of offshore UK, West Africa and parts of South Asia.
This focus has been further emphasised by the Companys announcement of its intention to acquire Energy Africa Limited, whose portfolio includes producing and exploration assets offshore UK and throughout Africa.
UK Offshore The UK Gas Market is currently going through a period of transition with declining indigenous supply struggling to keep pace with market demand and growth.
This has led to generally higher pricing for uncontracted gas, particularly during periods of peak winter demand, and an increasing focus on gas imports, LNG storage and other alternatives.
During 2003, Tullow attained a number of major operational and strategic milestones in the Southern North Sea SNS, including the assumption of operatorship of the Hewett fields and the Bacton terminal.
This transaction, coupled with further deals on the Thames fields, the Horne and Wren discoveries and more recently on the Orwell field, leaves Tullow ideally placed to benefit as the market continues to evolve.
West Africa During 2003, Tullow designated West Africa as a key region for future growth.
The Groups objective is to combine our commercial and technical skills to target existing smaller discoveries that can be successfully developed through the negotiation of suitable terms and the application of new technology.
This is complemented by an active focus on exploration upside within the region.
The Espoir project, where previously marginal assets have been enhanced through new technology and exploration success, represents a template for this strategy.
The proposed acquisition of Energy Africa Limited and Energy Africa Gabon Holdings Limited represents a quantum leap in Tullows long term strategy for this region and, upon completion, will bring Tullows West African production to over 30,000 boepd.
2 Tullow Oil plc Chairmans Statement 12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 12:44 PM Page 3 Tullow has emerged from 2003 a stronger and more focused company, and the proposed aquisition of Energy Africa Limited represents a major advance in our plans to become a sizeable independent exploration and production company.
South Asia Tullow will drill a number of interesting prospects in South Asia during 2004.
In Bangladesh we have to date drilled two wells from the committed three well programme within Block 9, while in Pakistan a 3D seismic programme is in progress on the Nawabshah licence.
The gas market in South Asia continues to improve and any gas discovered should be readily marketable.
Financial Tullow has shown consistently strong growth in turnover, operating profitability and cash flow generation in recent years and 2003 was no exception.
A combination of increased UK and Cte dIvoire production and strong oil prices generated an 18% growth in turnover to 132.4 million and a 35% rise in operating cash flow to 85 million.
This performance enabled Tullow to undertake an active reinvestment programme most notably in the UK and Cte dIvoire, whilst simultaneously paying down debt and initiating dividend payments.
Net profits were impacted by a write-off of unsuccessful exploration costs under the Groups successful efforts accounting policy.
Looking to 2004 and beyond, the proposed acquisition of Energy Africa provides a new source of production, reserves and cash flow and will allow Tullow access to an existing range of exploration and development opportunities in its UK and West Africa core areas.
3 12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 2:30 PM Page 4 Chairmans Statement continued Corporate Activity and Corporate Governance In recent years Tullow has devoted significant time and effort to the development of its Environmental, Health and Safety procedures.
In 2003 there were significant advances in this area with the certification under the internationally recognised ISO 14001 Environmental Standard of Tullow Oil UKs activities and its operatorship of the Hewett Complex and Bacton Terminal.
This achievement was the result of outstanding commitment to Health and Safety throughout the Tullow organisation and I would like to congratulate all involved.
In April 2004 John Lander and Eskandar Maleki retired from the Board.
During his time with the Company John has been the guiding force in the growth and innovation of Tullows UK business.
Eskandar has been a Non-Executive Director of Tullow since 1996 and his contributions to the Board have always been incisive and valuable.
I would like to thank both John and Eskandar for their contribution and commitment.
The Nominations Committee is currently in the process of selecting an experienced Non-Executive Director and hopes to make an announcement over the coming months.
Dividend In April Tullow announced its intention to pay a dividend of 1p per share during 2003.
Following approval from the Irish High Court and completion of certain accounting work, this dividend was paid in November.
The level of dividend will be maintained at 1p per share in 2004.
However, it remains the Companys intention to increase dividend payment levels as circumstances permit.
Corporate T ransactions On 26th March 2004 Tullow announced that it had secured an exclusive position with respect to the potential acquisition of Energy Africa Limited.
In this regard a formal offer to acquire Energy Africa and a proposed Placing of new Tullow shares to raise 123.5 million before expenses has been announced.
In a separate transaction, Tullow will also acquire the 50% interest in Energy Africa Gabon Holdings Limited not currently owned by Energy Africa.
4 Tullow Oil plc Chairmans Statement 12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 12:44 PM Page 5 The proposed transaction represents a major advance in Tullows plans to become a sizeable independent Exploration and Production company.
Energy Africa is regarded as a well-managed company with solid production and exposure to some of the most exciting exploration and development projects in West Africa.
The acquisition of the additional Gabon interests increases financial and operational flexibility in a key territory.
Future Prospects Tullow has emerged from 2003 as a stronger and more focused company, and the proposed Energy Africa acquisition will represent a significant acceleration in the Companys growth.
Industry dynamics are continuing to present exciting opportunities within our core areas, while investors are once again recognising the benefits that can result from exploration success.
I would like to thank our existing staff and shareholders for their commitment and look forward working with the staff and management of Energy Africa as part of the Tullow Group.
