1423 VT front art 03 06 9 6 03 2:19 pm Page 4 02 VT Group Annual Report 2003 This represents a strong performance against Chairmans statement a background of general stock market volatility, and some economic uncertainty, and reects the long-term nature of the I am delighted to be able to report in this, businesses we are concentrating on.
my first annual statement as chairman, Overall turnover has increased by 18 per cent to 565m 2002: 479m reecting the full that the business is in good shape and year impact of recent acquisitions.
profit before tax and the amortisation of goodwill has performed in line with our expectations.
and exceptional items was up by just under 11 per cent to 41.5m 2002: 37.5m, with earnings per share also increasing by 10 per cent to 16.6p 2002: 15.1p.
This performance has enabled the board to recommend a final dividend of 6.0 pence giving a total dividend for the year of 8.4 pence per share, an increase of 7.7 per cent over last year.
Paul Lester has undertaken a thorough review of the entire business to position the group as a leading provider of government services internationally.
We are concentrating on two divisions, Support services and Shipbuilding.
Our Marine products business has been reorganised and elements brought within the Shipbuilding division.
A key theme of the year has been the investments the group has been making to enable us to achieve our growth targets for future years.
These include the new Portsmouth Shipbuilding Facility and Private Finance Initiative PFI contracts.
They follow the investments we have already made in 12 acquisitions over the past four years.
We have therefore been putting our cash reserves to good use as well as improving our cash management.
We reached agreement in March with the South East England Development Agency for the sale of our Woolston Shipyard for a total consideration of 15m, with an immediate initial payment of 7.5m.
Martin Jay Chairman 1423 VT front art 03 06 9 6 03 2:19 pm Page 5 VT Group Annual Report 2003 03 This agreement gives rise to an exceptional A year ago we announced our intention to returns from all the investments we have profit of 4m.
We have decided to use the bulk appoint further non-executive directors made and to exploit the numerous of this cash receipt to make a 5m contribution to the board to ensure that we continue to opportunities to expand our business in to the groups principal pension scheme.
benefit from the right mix of skills and overseas markets.
In this way I am experience in light of the increasing importance confident that VT Group plc will continue Overall it has been a year of notable of support services to our overall business.
to deliver excellent value to its shareholders.
In September, Andrew Given joined the board having been successively Group Our Support services business has continued Finance Director and then Deputy Chief to grow strongly, with turnover up by over a Executive of the international IT services third.
The two largest acquisitions to date - group Logica.
In January David Thorpe was VT Merlin and VT Grifn - have bedded appointed to the board, having been most down well and enjoyed further contract recently President of Europe for Electronic success.
VT Grifn won the largest ever US Data Systems.
They are very welcome base maintenance and operations contract.
VT Merlin was named preferred bidder for the contract to operate, maintain and We also announced a year ago that it was enhance the MoDs high frequency Lord Wakehams intention to retire from the communications facilities both in the UK and board following the Annual General Meeting.
On the civil side VT has continued I wish to place on record my thanks for the to establish itself as a significant player in immense contribution he has made to the the growing UK education and skills sector.
company over seven years as chairman and in the last year as deputy chairman, and for In April 2003 our Shipbuilding business the support and wise counsel he has given successfully commissioned the new over that time.
We wish him well in retirement.
Portsmouth Shipbuilding Facility on time and within budget, ready for the start of On 19 May 2003, David Barclay joined the production for the Type 45 destroyer board as a non-executive director.
The transfer of staff from Vice Chairman of the investment bank Woolston is well underway and due for Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and has completion by the year end.
The new statebeen involved as a financial advisor to the of-the art facility will provide the platform to group since otation.
He has a wealth of make major improvements in productivity knowledge and experience of the VT Group and to compete effectively for contracts at and will bring to our deliberations an home and abroad.
VT is well-placed to important City perspective.
secure a significant share of the contract to design, build and support the two new Under the new board arrangements aircraft carriers for the Royal Navy.
Andrew Given will chair the audit committee and full the role of senior independent I should also note that during the recent director, while David Thorpe will chair the action in the Gulf, equipment supplied by VT remuneration committee.
Indeed the VT-built minehunter HMS Sandown was the first The company is in good shape and wellcoalition vessel into the Iraqi port of Um-Qasr, placed to continue the strong growth we playing a major role in the mine clearance have seen in Support services, to capitalise operation in the Shatt al Arab waterway that on the strategic Shipbuilding asset we now made possible the ow of humanitarian aid.
