Chairmans statement Results This resulted in gearing at 28 February 2003 Westbury traded strongly across the whole of its operating territory of 69% 2002: 14%, and interest cover, throughout the year.
Including the acquisition of Prowting, which was before exceptional items and goodwill successfully integrated ahead of programme, turnover grew by 41% to amortisation, for the year of 5.7 times, both 790.9 million 2002: 560.1 million.
Before goodwill amortisation and ratios being within the Boards target for the exceptional items associated with the acquisition, operating profit rose year end.
The net cash flow from operating by 33.9 million to 112.6 million 2002: 78.7 million.
This growth activity amounted to 97.5 million for the year.
in operating profit was driven by a 40% increase in our enlarged Shareholders funds increased by 43.9 million housebuilding operations to 117.3 million and was after taking account to 373.1 million, giving a net asset value per of losses in Space4 and Incresco of 3.5 million 2002: 4.0 million and share of 328 pence at the end of February 2003.
Dividend Over the same period, profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation and The Board is recommending a final dividend exceptional items increased by 29% to 93.0 million 2002: 72.2 million.
of 8.25 pence per share 2002: 7.5 pence After goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, profit before taxation which, together with the interim dividend of rose by 17% to 83.3 million 2002: 71.1 million.
3.85 pence per share paid in January, makes a total for the year of 12.1 pence per share 2002: Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 11.0 pence per share, an increase of 10%.
This is grew by 28% to 58.0 pence 2002: 45.2 pence, with basic earnings per the seventh consecutive year in which we have share, after charging those items, increasing by 14% to 50.5 pence delivered a double digit percentage increase.
We remain committed to 2002: 44.3 pence.
providing our shareholders with sustained real growth in income, while maintaining a prudent level of dividend cover.
Finances The most significant impact on borrowings for the year was the acquisition Strategy of Prowting for 248.0 million including debt.
The resultant increase in We are ahead of our stated strategy of doubling the turnover of the Homes gearing is being addressed through a planned debt reduction programme.
The acquisition of Prowting in June 2002 has met 2 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 Continued growth in our core business and the successful acquisition of Prowting have delivered our tenth consecutive year of profit, earnings and dividend growth.
all our expectations and has consolidated our position as one of the UKs People leading volume housebuilders.
It has enlarged our core Westbury Homes Our commitment to our people, which is warmly reciprocated, is a business through the addition of two new operating regions in the key differentiator and driver of the Westbury Group.
It gives me great South East and South West of England and significantly strengthened our pleasure once again to thank all of our people for their individual land bank in other regions.
In line with our expectations, exceptional contributions to another very successful year.
reorganisation costs were 4.3 million, and realised synergies were over 3.0 million for the year.
Prospects Over the last ten years we have demonstrated our ability to achieve We are confident that, as forecast at the time of the acquisition, realised sustained growth in our core business and, at the same time, to identify synergies will rise to at least 7 million in the current year.
and integrate suitable complementary businesses.
The acquisitions of Clarke Homes, Maunders and Prowting, over the last seven years, have Our strategy has been based for some time on addressing customer key helped us to build a substantial and well-balanced national volume requirements of improving quality and choice whilst progressively reducing housebuilding business with a healthy land bank, sound finances and costs, through the adoption of modern processes and technology.
Our design skills and experience site manufacturing operation, Space4, is producing quality products at in the recycling of land are in tune with both our customers needs and acceptable costs, with break-even volumes anticipated in the current year.
Trading Although the market place is less buoyant than a year ago, it remains Although the market became somewhat quieter as the year progressed, stable, with activity returning to more normal and sustainable levels, we benefited throughout the year from robust demand based on the strong and we are planning to increase sales volume during the current year, economic fundamentals of low inflation, low interest rates and stable aided by a full year from Prowting.
The fundamentals of our market are employment.
All our operating regions traded strongly, with our average still sound although the economic outlook remains uncertain.
selling price continuing to rise due to a continuing focus on prime sites Notwithstanding, we look forward with confidence to the year ahead.
and improved designs, notably our successful Renaissance product range.
Geoffrey Maddrell Chairman Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 3
