chairmans statement Sir John Banham Chairman These are good results.
They endorse the decision announced by the board over two years ago to create a focused leisure business and confirm that management action is delivering increasing value for our shareholders page 2 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 This is the fourth period in succession in which Pension agreement Whitbreads continuing businesses have reported I was particularly pleased that we were able to put double-digit earnings growth.
It demonstrates the in place an innovative agreement with Whitbread strength of the transformed company and especially Pension Trustees Limited which safeguards the the ability of our brands to out-perform their interests of members of the final salary pension competitors.
scheme while also protecting the interests of our shareholders.
Full details are in the finance review Strong cash position on page 9 of this report.
Capital investment was again focused on those marketleading brands capable of producing the strongest The board returns.
114 million of expenditure on new sites I am delighted that Rod Kent has accepted the position increased the scale of our brands, particularly Travel Inn, as the companys senior independent non-executive Brewers Fayre Brewsters and David Lloyd Leisure.
Rod joined the board in September 2002.
He stepped down as managing director of Close Whitbread has become a much more efficient business.
Brothers in October 2002 and is currently chairman Trading margin improved from 12.9% to 14.0% and of Bradford and Bingley plc, Grosvenor Limited and return on capital was ahead in every brand.
The cash Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited.
position was strong with a net inflow of 39 million.
Dividend The heart of our business The board has confidence in the prospects for the During the year, my board colleagues and I have met group and this is reflected in the final dividend the management teams of each Whitbread brand payment of 14.30p per share making a total dividend along with many of their people.
Unfailingly, we have of 19.87p per share for the year an increase of 12%.
been impressed by their grasp of what is required to This will be paid on 11 July 2003 to shareholders on grow the returns on the assets they control while the register at the close of business on 9 May 2003. improving, yet further, service to their customers.
They have performed both tasks remarkably well and it is the 65,000 people in Whitbread to whom thanks must go for these results.
Sir John Banham Chairman 29 April 2003 page 3
