Chairmans Statement All three channels generated higher profits The current year has got off to an encouraging Group profit on ordinary with growth in the interactive channel and via start.
self service fixed odds betting terminals activities before finance In the eight weeks ended 24 February 2004, the FOBTs in licenced betting offices LBOs Groups gross win was up 17% against the charges, tax and exceeding the more than satisfactory levels of corresponding period with all three channels growth achieved in the telephone channel and achieving double digit rates of growth.
Roughly exceptional costs was the over the counter business in LBOs.
half of the total increase is attributable to the 201.7m, an increase of The continuing strength of FOBT business owes net movement in gross win derived from FOBTs much to the landmark decision by the Gaming and AWPs.
The FOBT roll out accelerated from 43% on last year, and our Board of Great Britain to withdraw from its April 2003 and will become less of a factor in planned legal challenge to these betting driving gross win growth later this year.
fourth successive year of terminals in favour of an agreed Code of The Groups operating expenses were up 13% Conduct regarding their deployment and double digit profit growth.
over the corresponding period primarily as a operation.
result of normal inflationary pressures across This was obviously a welcome move and bodes the Group, and within the retail business well for our future relationship with higher staff costs consistent with the strategy of government and any future industry regulator.
extended trading in the LBOs.
It shows how, with constructive dialogue, the Each of the three channels is well positioned right balance between free market policies and relative to the competition and has a clear socially responsible product innovation can be strategy designed to deliver sustainable profit achieved to the benefit of all in a commercial growth in the current year.
I would like to take this opportunity on behalf We still believe that our future will be shaped of the Board and shareholders to thank all our by the ongoing process of regulatory staff for their continuing contribution to the modernisation.
However, the timing and Groups success.
substance of any Gambling Bill remain subject to parliamentary scrutiny and due process.
Furthermore, I cannot complete this, my first Whilst we seek to both influence and anticipate statement as Chairman of William Hill, without the outcome of this process, we will continue to paying tribute to my predecessor.
John Brown focus on organic growth opportunities, and was with the Group for 44 years, famously keep an open mind about our potential to rising from tea boy to Chairman, and has been participate in any industry consolidation or the inspiration for many of the innovations in convergence through acquisition.
both the Group and betting industry over many years.
That he will be sorely missed is without Our strong financial performance since the doubt.
However, he has handed over the reins Groups flotation in June 2002 has allowed us to with the Group in exceptionally good shape, create significant value for our shareholders and we face the future with justifiable and pay down debt.
Consistent with our stated confidence.
intention of returning value to shareholders, we propose to raise the total dividend by 44% to 12.5 pence per share, and to seek authority Charles Scott from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual Chairman General Meeting to buy back up to 10% of the issued share capital.
