53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 1:16 PM Page 3 WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MAKING WAVES FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS : 03 TURNOVER $000 GROSS PROFIT $000 OPERATING PROFIT $000 Turnover increased by 125% to $75.7m 2002: $33.7m profit before tax increased to $12.5m 2002: $3.6m Diluted earnings per share of 9.24 cents 2002: 2.57 cents Net cash generation from operations of $4.8m 2002: $3.5m R&D expenditure increased to $9.4m 2002: $4.9m 53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 10:11 AM Page 4 JOHN CAREY : CHAIRMAN 53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 10:11 AM Page 5 WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MAKING WAVES CHAIRMANS STATEMENT : 05 Chairmans Statement This is the first Annual Report of Wolfson as a publicly held company.
I would like to take this opportunity to examine, from a broad perspective, the forces that have shaped our Company.
It is not so much my intention to describe, in a traditional fashion, what the Company does or what its current status is, but rather how we have evolved into what we are today.
The splendid financial performance for 2003 and the Outlook for 2004 will be dealt with in the Chief Executive Ofcers Review of Operations.
53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 10:11 AM Page 6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MAKING WAVES WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 : 06 Our skills in the design, layout and test engineering of mixed-signal interface circuits are a world class Wolfson core expertise, that continues to be refreshed through our ongoing R&D and our strong relationships with internationally recognised Scottish Universities.
The chart opposite shows our sales and earnings history since To satisfy the global aspect of this strategy we set up hard hitting inception.
Two things are immediately apparent from the chart.
sales and application teams in all our major far ung markets.
The first being that the Company has been in business for almost These teams are comprised almost exclusively of people of local two decades.
The second that we are currently enjoying origin and, although small, represent a potent selling effort and a considerable success.
However, I feel it is more instructive to view base from which we can grow.
the Company as having evolved in three phases.
We started as Virtually all our product offerings are differentiated i. e. they are a fee based Company during which period we developed our not widely available from other sources and we go to great lengths core R&D expertise.
We then set about re-inventing ourselves to get a winning balance of features, customer benets and cost and nally emerged as a profitable, rapidly growing world class effectiveness.
We have a rigorous new product denition and supplier of mixed-signal chips.
approval process in which many elements of the Company are The Company spent the first 10 years as a chip design house.
involved, although the process is spearheaded by a dedicated During this period the starting point would be a set of customer team.
For some years now, we have been able to operate at specications.
The end product was a working chip mask set senior levels with many of our huge multinational customers to and a set of test tapes.
During this period we were paid fees for define the Wolfson mixed-signal element of their future product our work of approximately $17m.
These 10 years and $17m were offerings.
I believe our sales, marketing, applications, new product spent developing and proving our skills in design, layout and test denition, R&D, manufacturing, logistic and business capabilities engineering of mixed signal interface circuits.
This is a world class are highly respected by both our customers and our competitors.
Wolfson core expertise that continues to be refreshed through We have demonstrated the ability to supply large quantities of our ongoing R&D and staffed through our close relationships product to some of the worlds most exacting customers.
with internationally recognised local Scottish Universities.
I would like to close my report with a few comments on our most Armed, as it were, with this expertise in 1995 the Company important work in progress which is the health, welfare and growth decided to reinvent itself as a merchant supplier of integrated of Team Wolfson.
circuits to end customers for a price rather than to supply a Team Wolfson is world class.
Team Wolfson has grown noticeably service for a fee.
This decision initiated a five year venture capital in stature of late.
Team Wolfson is the foundation the very solid funded metamorphosis.
A metamorphosis from a narrowly foundation on which we expect to continue to build.
Our ability focused engineering design company to a well rounded multi to attract, incorporate, grow, challenge and retain team members disciplined merchant supplier with a progressively more clear has never been better.
cut corporate strategy to be a global supplier of high value differentiated mixed-signal products essential to the so called We thank you for your continuing support.
John Carey This revolution is producing huge growth in products mainly Chairman targeted at the consumer market such as desk top, laptop and handheld computers, MP3 and DVD players, mobile phones, cameras, digital copiers and the like.
These in turn, are facilitated by the ever lower cost and power consumption of data processing and storage components.
