06 Chairmans statement Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement This is my first statement to you since becoming Chairman in December 2002, following five years as a Non Executive Director of Wolseley.
Over the past year, I have had the opportunity to meet with all our businesses, both large and small, across Europe, the USA and Canada, and also to review the effectiveness of your board.
It is clear we have a strategy which is delivering shareholder value, supported by excellent people, determined leadership and strong brands in our various markets.
The opportunities for growth are evident, be they through acquisition or organic.
One of our core strengths has been our ability to service our customers and develop local markets.
This remains a key competency, which will be increasingly complemented by leveraging our international strengths throughout the organisation, from material procurement to IT infrastructure.
Good results have been achieved this year in spite of generally flat or John W Whybrow negative markets and a weakness in the US dollar.
Cash generation Chairman was strong, enabling maintenance of a healthy balance sheet combined with a record level of expenditure on acquisitions, the largest being Pinault Bois et Matriaux in France for m565 million.
Dividend With our earnings per share before goodwill amortisation rising to 56.69 pence, the board is recommending a final dividend of 15.6 pence which gives a total dividend for the year of 21.2 pence, an increase of 12.2% over the dividend declared last year.
This reflects our confidence in the future.
07 Chairmans statement Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 The board The majority of the recommendations represent good practice and During the year there have been a number of changes to the board.
There cannot, however, be a perfect governance Richard Ireland retired, having been a board member for some model and your board has been pleased to see that a number 27 years, the last six as Chairman.
Richard made a major contribution of changes recommended in the Higgs Report have been revised to the Company, steering it through many changes to become the in the new UK Combined Code published on 23 July 2003. leading player it is today.
Andrew Hutton, Executive Director with Your board believes it is important that leadership and responsibility responsibility for the UK and Northern Europe, retired on 31 July 2003 are clearly defined and that there is continued consideration and after 18 years with the Group, the last nine of which were on the debate in this area.
Meanwhile, we will continue to apply high board.
Andrew is recognised and respected as a man of great standards of governance, conform to standards and, above all, integrity who consistently delivered excellent results.
On behalf of the ensure entrepreneurial leadership.
board and our employees, I would like to thank both Richard and Andrew for their strong support and wish them well in the future.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our employees for their contribution and efforts over the year.
The pride and care taken by them all in In July we were delighted to welcome Gareth Davis and, in August, serving our customers is second to none.
I would also like to thank Grard Legtmann to the board.
Gareth joined the board as a our shareholders for their continued confidence in the Company.
He has an outstanding track record as There is no doubt that the year ahead will be challenging, but I the Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC and is well assure you that we are committed to delivering a solid financial respected in international business.
Grard joined the board as performance together with ongoing growth.
the Chief Executive for Europe.
This is a new position which reflects the increasing opportunities we see to manage the business across European boundaries, as we pursue our international strategy.
Grard also brings with him considerable international experience in both Europe and the USA, including experience in implementing change across organisations.
I look forward to working with them John W Whybrow in the future.
Chairman 2003 will be seen as the year of corporate governance debate.
The Wolseley board has paid significant attention not only to the Higgs and Smith Reviews, but also to the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
