Chairmans Statement Gerald Corbett Chairman Recovery programme on course... Profit before tax, exceptionals, Having stabilised the business This report marks the first and goodwill amortisation in the period immediately following full year of independence increased by 60 per cent to 52.8 the demerger, paid off the inherited for the Woolworths Group million, on turnover up 4.5 per debt, reduced the excess stock following demerger from cent to 2.7 billion.
Net exceptional and strengthened the management Kingfisher plc in August charges of 11.8 million were at all levels, the priority for the incurred, relating in particular year was to deliver a recovery in 2001.
Whilst there remains to the closure of the Woolworths Woolworths profitability.
The new much to do for the business General Store format and the team, under Trevor Bish-Jones to perform to its full reorganisation of Head Office leadership, has focused primarily potential, significant functions.
After exceptional items on simplifying the business, and goodwill amortisation profit strengthening the infrastructure progress has been made.
before tax was 38.0 million systems and supply chain compared with last years loss and improving core retail of 46.4 million.
This has resulted finished the year in a strong in better in-store availability financial position with net of product throughout the year, cash balances of 35.2 million.
particularly during the crucial Christmas period, lower Head The adjusted earnings per share Office costs, better in-store grew by 63 per cent, from 1.6 disciplines, and an improvement pence per share to 2.6 pence in margin in the Woolworths per share.
The recovery in recommending a final dividend profitability was also helped of 1.0 pence per share, an increase by the new Kingstore EPOS of 11.1 per cent which will provide electronic point of sale till system a full year dividend of 1.325 pence now in 160 stores, representing per share, an increase of 10.4 over 40 per cent of our retail per cent on the previous year.
space, improved planning and The Boards policy is to generate replenishment systems, the new progressive dividend growth Hong Kong buying office and a as well as further improvement more competitive product offer in dividend cover similar to particularly in Toys and Home.
the average of the general merchandise retailing sector, which at present is approximately 22.5 times.
