15 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Chairmans statement Xansas entry into the Business Process Outsourcing market, on the back of the 250 million Accounting & Finance outsourcing contract with BT, is the second most important aspect of the financial year and I am very pleased that before I retire we have achieved this key objective.
This market, which is forecast to grow dramatically, plays to all Xansas strengths as an IT services and business process specialist with the added dimension of a well established, fully integrated Indian capability.
We shall exploit our know-how in Accounting & Finance and Human Resource systems as well as developing the off-shore delivery services for bespoke customer contact In this, my last report to you as Chairman, I am pleased to and back office systems.
report a year of progress in the fundamental competitiveness This year has also seen a number of Board changes.
of Xansa despite its first setback in revenues and operating Jo Connell retired from Xansa at the end of March and profits since the last recession.
This decline is due to the same relinquished her role as Managing Director in January 2003. market conditions which have affected all our competitors.
She continued to work directly for the Chief Executive to The financial results, which are detailed below are nevertheless manage the streamlining programme and to ensure a smooth in line with the management expectations set last September.
transition to the new organisational structure.
Jo had been The most important aspect of the last year has been the with Xansa for 25 years and a Director for the last 11. creation of a new Executive team under Alistair Cox, Chief Her outstanding contribution has been a critical factor in Executive, who joined Xansa on 1 August 2002.
At Board level, the Companys success to date.
I shall always value her we were pleased to welcome Peter Gill as Finance Director, contribution to the growth and success of Xansa as well as joining us from Pearson on 1 January, whilst continuity was her personal support and the enjoyment of working with her.
preserved through Lyn Barrat, Commercial Director and Geoffrey Dunn, previously Finance Director, resigned from the Saurabh Srivastava, Executive Chairman, India, the promotion Board in October 2002 and we thank him for his contribution.
of Steve Weston to Managing Director, UK and the appointment of Allan Wood to Managing Director for the Business Process Outsourcing business.
At the executive level, we welcomed John Faraguna as President of the USA business and Murali Vullaganti as Managing Director Xansa, India, whilst Peter Hilary Cropper CBE, Chairman Drysdale was promoted to Managing Director, Continental Europe and Asia Pacific, and Judith Halkerston to International Resource Director.
Mike Harling continues as Director of Human Resources with Philip Cook remaining as General Counsel and Company Secretary.
This new team has undertaken a major strategic review of the business, has sharpened the investment focus and has streamlined the organisation, centred around client relationships, with profit accountability by country.
The effect of the streamlining is a more efficient organisation with significant reductions in overhead costs.
Alistairs report gives further details.
16 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Chairmans statement Our strategy is to grow across three centres in Delhi, Chennai and Pune covering 46 acres of land to provide future expansion options.
We are consulting extensively with individual institutional investors and with representative bodies, and having listened to their advice, hope we will be able to design a scheme which will be equally acceptable to institutional investors, private and employee shareholders.
The Board believes this move would be consistent with Xansas culture and be beneficial in creating shareholder value.
Retirement In March 2003 we announced that David Tebbs, formerly As we announced in June, it is my intention to step down from Chairman of Druid, had retired from the Board, having been the Chairmanship and the Xansa Board following the AGM on a non-executive Director since March 2000.
At the same time 17 September 2003.
The primary reason for this is that I have we were delighted to announce the appointment of Lord Wilson been receiving treatment for cancer for almost two years and of Dinton as a non-executive Director.
Lord Wilson, Master of whilst I remain relatively well, the time is right to hand over Emmanuel College, and formerly Secretary of the Cabinet and the reins.
The 18 years during which I have led the Company Head of the Home Civil Service, will bring additional clarity of have been immensely satisfying, largely because of the people thought and a truly worldly perspective of events to the Board.
in Xansa, with whom it has been a joy to work.
I am thrilled Employee share ownership continues to remain at the that the Board want to honour me with the title Honorary heart of Xansa and extensive programmes are undertaken to President and I will continue to promote and assist the Company promote our innovative share schemes to encourage employees in the future.
to participate in the schemes and grow their shareholding in Of course, one gets nowhere without clients!
I am very proud that seven years after our like to thank all our clients for their continued business, the flotation, we continue to have one of the highest levels of opportunities they give us and for the personal friendships employee share ownership in the industry and in the FTSE 250 which I have formed with them.
New employees joining Xansa from I am content that I leave Xansa in good hands.
We have a transfers receive tailored presentations on the Companys strong Board and a new Executive team who know where they shares schemes.
We are delighted with the high levels of takeare going and are determined to get there.
My good wishes go up amongst this employee population, some of whom have to you all.
not had the opportunity to participate in such schemes with their previous employers.
In April 2003, Xansa was recognised for its outstanding achievements in operating international employee share plans by receiving the prestigious Global Equity Organisation 2002 Award for Best Communications.
As part of Xansas approach to employee share ownership, over the years, the share options scheme has been offered widely through the employee base.
The Board has become increasingly concerned that the exercise price for most of these options is well in excess of the current share price.
In order to maintain motivation, the Board is proposing to put a resolution to the next AGM, to allow them to make an offer for a cancellation of existing options for all employees, excluding the Board members, in return for fewer options at an exercise price closer to current values.
Hilary Cropper CBE, Chairman 24 June 2003 17 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Employee share ownership continues to remain at the heart of Xansa and extensive programmes are undertaken to promote our innovative share schemes to encourage employees to participate in the schemes and grow their shareholding in the Company.
I am very proud that seven years after our flotation, we continue to have one of the highest levels of employee share ownership in the industry and in the FTSE 250 with a level today of 26%.
18 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 We now have in place a structure that reinforces our strategy of delivering integrated offerings in IT services and Business Process Outsourcing, leveraging the cost effectiveness of our Indian delivery capability whilst providing our clients with strong local support.
Our focus now is to execute this strategy in all our markets, despite our view that our market places will remain challenging and highly competitive at least through the current financial year.
Tight cost control, a focus on cash generation and winning new profitable business will be the key mantras in the business.
