2 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 Chairmans letter to shareholders We remain committed to the twin objectives of improving our performance to meet the expectations of our customers and delivering enhanced shareholder value.
We have a robust and productive relationship with the UK Ministry of Defence and are a firmly established constituent of the US Significant progress defence industry where we continue to grow This has been a year of significant progress.
In continental Europe we have We have continued to build on our good first strong positions on key programmes such as half and have delivered full year results to Typhoon and are a proud and active partner plan.
In parallel, we have made good in Airbus.
progress on stabilising major programmes in the UK.
We remain committed to the twin Underpinning these positions is world-class objectives of improving our performance to technology and the expertise of our people.
meet the expectations of our customers and This is illustrated by the high quality of delivering enhanced shareholder value.
entries for our annual Chairmans Award for Innovation which this year attracted a record Dividend 3,000 entries from across the company.
The Board is recommending a maintained final ordinary dividend of 5.5p per share, Corporate governance and Board changes making a total for the year of 9.2p per The Board and I take our obligations share.
Subject to shareholder approval at regarding corporate governance very the 2004 Annual General Meeting, the seriously.
The Board has reviewed the new dividend will be paid on 1 June 2004 to Combined Code on Corporate Governance holders of ordinary shares registered on for UK listed companies.
Whilst we are not 23 April 2004. required to report formally our compliance against the new code until next year, we A strong company recognise that it is the most recent We remain focused on leveraging the strong authoritative statement on best practice for positions and relationships we enjoy in key companies and therefore later in this report markets.
we disclose how we stand relative to its provisions.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 3 Sir Peter Mason and Michael Hartnall joined Looking forward we have taken clear steps to the Board in 2003: both possess a good deal remove impediments to future progress in our of relevant experience and knowledge and are UK Programmes business.
We are well valuable additions to the Board.
Sir Charles positioned in our key markets and our order Masefield, Sir Robin Biggam and Keith Brown book remains strong.
all retired from the Board during the year and Paolo Scaroni will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
Business transformation In recent years BAE Systems has undergone a radical transformation from a UK-based aircraft manufacturer to a broadly-based Sir Richard Evans systems business.
Through this Chairman transformation the company has achieved a 25 February 2004 more balanced portfolio and geographic spread.
Today BAE Systems is one of a small group of companies at the top of the worlds aerospace and defence industry.
