2 Chairmans statement Driving forward from a position of strength We have implemented some major changes during 2003 and early 2004, both in terms of operations and personnel.
I am delighted that Gordon Cameron has accepted the position of Chief Executive Officer.
The international search we undertook for candidates was extensive and thorough, and Gordon proved both to myself and to my colleagues on the Board that he was the best individual for the job.
In taking over this role, Gordon will be able to drive Acambis forward from a position of strength.
I am pleased to report that we achieved excellent financial results in 2003, with revenue of 169.1m compared with 79.7m in 2002, and pre-exceptional pre-tax profit excluding the 7.4m exceptional element of the BTG settlement increasing by nearly 400% from 9.6m to 46.8m.
BUSINESS UPDATE BOARD CHANGES We have initiated a search for a In January 2004, we announced that, Since the beginning of 2003, we have suitable individual to fill Gordon following a review of our projects made a number of Board changes.
During and operations, we are focusing our Most importantly, we announced on this search process, Elizabeth Brown, resources on a number of key projects 23 February 2004 that Gordon Cameron currently Vice President of Finance and out-licensing or discontinuing has been appointed Chief Executive and Company Secretary, will assume others in which we no longer wish Officer CEO.
Gordon joined Acambis Gordons CFO responsibilities in an to invest Acambis resources.
We also in 1996 as Chief Financial Officer CFO.
announced the consolidation of our Since March 2001, he has also been Gordon takes over as CEO from Dr research activities in one location, President of our US division and has John Brown, who stood down at the end Cambridge, Massachusetts.
These overseen a period of significant growth of 2003 after almost seven years tenure.
measures will help us to focus on in the US.
He was instrumental in We are immensely grateful to John the opportunities that are most likely Acambis winning a major contract for the huge contribution he made in to generate the maximum return to with the US Government to manufacture growing Acambis from an early-stage Acambis and to drive development more than 200 million doses of our research company into one of the of our projects as rapidly as possible investigational smallpox vaccine leading biotechnology companies through to licensure.
and oversaw the reactivation of our in Europe, and wish him every success We took an important step, in August manufacturing facility and the with his future plans.
2003, in our strategy to establish acquisition of BPC.
Dr Geoffrey Porges resigned as a Acambis as a fully integrated vaccine As part of the management team for Non-executive Director in January 2003 business by acquiring Berna Products more than seven years, he is ideally placed following his appointment to a new Corporation BPC.
This well-established to build on previous successes by adding position.
Victor Schmitt resigned as a sales, promotion and distribution his own vision for the continued growth Non-executive Director in January 2004 business gives us, for the first time, the and development of Acambis.
In this, following the sale of Baxters shareholding ability to sell vaccines we are planning he is well equipped with considerable in Acambis in December 2003.
I would to bring to market, in addition to giving financial experience and the extensive like to thank both of them for their us access to a licensed product.
industry knowledge he has developed valuable contributions to the Boards during more than seven years with deliberations.
We are confident Gordon will announced the appointment of be an outstanding leader and will take Ross Graham as Non-executive Director Acambis from strength to strength.
and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
3 This years Annual Report In previous years, we combined the Annual Report with the Form 20-F required by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
From this year forward we have decided to split them into two documents.
This is to enable US-based shareholders to access the information they require in a more familiar format.
We have also chosen to implement a new style of Operating and Financial Review OFR ahead of publication of the recommendations of the Operating and Financial Review Working Group, which are due during 2004.
In this new OFR, which starts on page 16, we have adopted the structure outlined by the Institute of Chartered Accountants for England and Wales.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR He brings extensive financial and TSR REBASED TO 100 transactional experience from his 600 previous roles as Corporate Development Director and Finance Director of 500 Misys plc.
400 300 OUTLOOK 200 We have made good progress during 100 2003 and look forward to continued 0 progress from the product pipeline 31 DEC 98 31 DEC 99 31 DEC 00 31 DEC 01 31 DEC 02 31 DEC 03 during 2004.
We anticipate this will include trial results from a number of ACAMBIS our vaccine development programmes, FTSE ALL-SHARE PHARMACEUTICALS & BIOTECH INDEX including ACAM2000 and ChimeriVaxWest Nile, plus submission of a Biologics License Application BLA to the US Food and Drug Administration FDA for ACAM2000.
Acambis has never been in better shape.
With our new CEO in place, the financial strength and flexibility that our cash position provides and a clear vision of our key, high-value vaccine projects, we are in a good position to maximise value for our shareholders.
