Chairmans statement Sir David John With our profound fund of experience, world-class skills, disciplined people and professional processes, Balfour Beatty can continue to grow reliably and responsibly.
The Company In this, my first annual statement to shareholders as your Chairman, I am pleased to be able to report a further year of sound progress both in performance and in developing the platform for the Groups continuing long-term success.
This is the fourth consecutive year in which Balfour Beatty has achieved strong growth in both profits and earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
I am pleased to be able to confirm to shareholders that this growth has been achieved in parallel with significant enhancement of long-term shareholder value.
Once again, the strength of our cash position clearly underpins the quality of our profits.
We are widely acknowledged as a worldclass engineering, construction and services group, well-positioned in infrastructure markets which offer significant growth potential.
Our many strong partnerships with public and private sector customers generate secure long-term income.
Our cash position gives us considerable exibility to add new capacity and expertise to the business mix and to make appropriate investments.
In our growing portfolio of PPP investments and our order book of 5.8bn, we already have the core elements for successful future growth.
I intend to ensure that the sound principles which have given us this position are maintained under my Chairmanship.
You will continue to see a thorough evaluation of which contracts we bid for and which acquisitions and investments we pursue, sound engineering judgements, close attention to cash management and prudence in accounting.
We will continue to make decisions which, in all cases, are aimed at improving long-term shareholder value and, most important of all, maintaining the integrity and professionalism in all that we do.
The Board The Balfour Beatty Board has seen significant change in recent years and, despite having joined the Board as recently as August 2000, I am the longest serving non-executive Director.
Viscount Weir, Chairman of the Board since 1996 and a non-executive Director since 1977, retired at the AGM in May.
We are delighted that he has accepted our invitation to become Honorary Life President of the Company.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 16 Viscount Weir was at the centre of this Companys major transformation Our social responsibilities in the late 1990s which saw our worldwide cables business divested The Company takes the full range of its responsibilities to society and the successful establishment of Balfour Beatty as an independent very seriously.
Our close attention to the safety of our employees public company.
The Company owes him a great debt for his strong saw another year of progress in reducing our accident frequency leadership during this challenging period.
I also offer sincere thanks rate.
We now have a full range of measures in place to assess the to Christopher Reeves who retired from the Board at the AGM after environmental impact of our activities and to help us manage this 21 years as a non-executive Director and to Udo Stark, a non-executive aspect of our business more effectively.
We are beginning to broaden Director since 1995.
Malcolm Eckersall retired from the Board and our long-term customer relationships beyond their commercial from the Company as an executive Director during the year.
dimension on a more consistent basis and to increase the frequency I was pleased to welcome Christoph von Rohr, chairman of the and depth of our dialogue with the full range of our stakeholders.
German Institute for Market Economy and Competition, Chalmers As chairman of our Business Practices Committee, I take a direct Carr, senior counsel to Standard Chartered Bank, and Gordon Sage, personal interest in these matters which will be fully reported in our deputy chairman of ERM Holdings Ltd, the environmental services third Safety, Environment and Social Report in May.
company, to the Board as non-executive Directors during the year.
The way ahead The particular areas of expertise of each of the non-executive Our business is intimately linked to the provision of large-scale, Directors is discussed in the Directors report.
infrastructure, principally for public sector customers, both in Corporate governance the UK and overseas.
These are environments which inevitably bring During 2003, a thorough review of Balfour Beattys responsibilities challenges and difficulties, as well as great opportunity.
I believe that under the Higgs recommendations and the Combined Code was Balfour Beatty, with our profound fund of experience, world-class undertaken and detailed reference to our systems and procedures skills, disciplined people and professional processes, can continue is laid out in the Directors report.
With the appointment of to grow reliably and responsibly in 2004 and future years.
Robert Walvis as senior independent non-executive Director, and the creation of separate Nomination and Remuneration Committees under different chairmen, I believe we are fully compliant with recognised regulation.
Balfour Beatty people The main asset of this Company is a strong cadre of talented, highly-motivated people who are expert and experienced in delivering Sir David John Chairman our customers requirements.
I believe that our management systems and our remuneration policies and practices offer the right mix of disciplines and incentives to ensure the many excellent people in the organisation give of their best on a consistent basis.
I am sure shareholders will wish to join me in thanking our people for all their efforts and achievements in 2003.
We currently have a major management succession and development review under way to ensure we maintain and improve the ow of talented people into and through the organisation.
We are also one of the industrys principal recruiters of graduates both from engineering and other disciplines.
Much attention is given to these important tasks.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 17
