Annual report and accounts 2003 Chairmans statement Duelguide offer I am conscious that this may well be the last statement which I write as Chairman of a publicly listed Chelseld.
Shareholders were notied that discussions were taking place with a committee of independent directors, led by Sir Bruce MacPhail, regarding the possibility of my heading up an offer to take Chelseld private.
An offer carrying the support of the independent directors was announced on 26 January 2004 and a document from Duelguide is expected to be posted today extending an offer to purchase the entire share capital of Chelseld.
Financial results In marked contrast to the first half, the deficit for the second six months of 2003 was substantially higher than for the equivalent period last year.
The losses at 30 June 2003 ran to 2.4 million, or the equivalent of 0.8p per share.
The results for the second six months took losses for the full year to 44.6 million, or 15.8p per share.
The 2003 results consolidated a full year contribution from Global Switch as a wholly owned subsidiary and the explanation for the deterioration recorded in the second half lies substantially in the financial consequences of the tough trading conditions still facing our telehousing subsidiary, particularly overseas.
That having been said, the gures can not be regarded as anything other than disappointing.
The 102.8 million reduction in net asset value reported for the group can be characterised as arising predominantly from Global Switch.
Attributable losses of 60.9 million went through the profit and loss account during 2003 via a combination of operating shortfalls, allocated interest and asset writedowns.
In addition, 6.8 million was charged to taxation due to uncertainty over our ability to use a proportion of the deferred tax asset going forward.
profit and loss account charges were compounded by additional valuation falls of 29.4 million taken separately through reserves.
The total reduction in respect of Global Switch was 97.1 million.
Elsewhere, the group achieved profits before tax of 40.2 million for the year to 31 December 2003.
Total taxation was 22.3 million, which included an exceptional provision of 17.5 million for US tax liabilities crystallised by the sale of properties in New York.
Net valuation movements outside Global Switch were only marginally down.
The most substantial positives were at Merry Hill, for which aggregate Brierley Hill holdings were up 20.3 million, and at Riverside House, marked 6.1 million higher to recognise a contracted sale.
Largest falls came on West London ofces owned in joint venture.
Paddington and St. Catherines House on Kingsway were together down 18.5 million for our pro rata share.
The valuers judged the latter 6 million lower following an announcement that the tenant, ExxonMobil, was intending to relocate.
The remainder of the groups UK properties, including commercial ofces other than Riverside House, were down 21 million overall.
The rump in North America fell 9.7 million.
2 Chelseld plc Dividend The directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend.
The maintained interim of 2.0p per share for the six months to 30 June 2003 reected the view of the board that the adverse impact of Global Switch was to be set against reasonable progress elsewhere.
For the moment, the judgement is that the balance has swung in the other direction.
Global Switch Much like us, our valuers CB Richard Ellis, had anticipated a higher level of new lettings than the 92,000 square feet secured across all facilities during the year.
Global Switch facilities in Frankfurt, Madrid and Paris each took the full weight of the post millennium telecom slowdown and leasings in the overseas facilities are still coming through only slowly.
Rental outgoings were swollen by provisions against accrued income and amounts owed by defaulting tenants totalling 4.1 million.
They especially suffered from the insolvencies of KPN Qwest and, more recently, the continental European subsidiaries of Abovenet.
The valuations at 31 December 2002 were based on letting projections of approximately a quarter of a million feet.
Those were revised downwards six months later.
The pace of take up at 31 December 2003 necessitated another move out in assumed void periods and income recovery.
The resulting carrying values for Global Switch assets in the consolidated group balance sheet at 31 December 2003 are now well below historic cost, even after adjustment for what had in April 2002 appeared advantageous terms for the purchase of the matching shareholding owned by TrizecHahn Corporation.
The pipeline of enquiries in Global Switch does give cause for encouragement.
The changed tenant prole, whilst much reduced, is generally of strong financial standing.
Global Crossing coming out of Chapter 11 late last year served to remove an important outstanding uncertainty.
Morley The processes of reorganisation necessary to enable the introduction of new investors proved almost overwhelmingly complex and considerably more expensive than we had anticipated.
Part of the complication arose from the original ownership structure which was designed to accommodate the specic requirements of our former Canadian partners, TrizecHahn Corporation.
A natural sense of caution in relation to the banking security offered by partly let telehousing assets also served to compound delays.
The amount of effort expended in getting to this point affords confidence that the structure which is now in place will provide readily for the subsequent introduction of additional investors.
3 Annual report and accounts 2003 Chairmans statement continued Morley has paid 51.5 million for a minority 25 per cent interest in the limited partnership formed for the purposes of owning the European assets, after accounting for 160.0 million of bank debt in the new entity.
The purchase consideration is in line with previous indications and will be subject to adjustment for lettings gained and lost between exchange last September and completion.
Completion of the investment by Morley was a condition of the Duelguide offer, but the board resolved to proceed with the Morley transaction irrespective of the outcome of the offer.
Costs incurred during 2003 totalling 3.4 million have been charged to the profit and loss account.
The remaining loss on disposal, expected to be in the order of 9.5 million, will be recognised upon completion of the transaction in the first half of 2004.
White City The new partnership arrangements at White City are in the process of being nalised but are also taking longer than we had hoped.
These involve a composite set of new agreements including, inter alia, the grant of a lease by London Underground as freeholder in favour of our prospective partners, Commerz Grundbesitz , better known as CGI.
We have committed to repurchase our intended 50 per cent share from CGI on completion of the project for an amount equivalent to one half of actual project costs.
Our share is expected to be in the order of 675 million.
The obligation to repurchase is to be secured by a bond of 200 million, plus 38 million of land and project management fees held in escrow for the duration of the development.
We had hoped that the new arrangements would be completed last November but, at the time of writing, final statutory authorisations are still in the process of being obtained.
In order to maintain the construction timetable and stay within existing budget estimates, substantial preparatory and enabling works are being undertaken under licence from London Underground and funded by Chelseld out of new and existing bank lines.
Once the new arrangements are completed, Chelseld will be entitled to receive from CGI a land value of 200 million plus reimbursement of development expenditure, currently amounting to a further 85 million, much of which has been funded by us over the last six months.
Merry Hill Brierley Hill Waterfront The appraised capital value of our Brierley Hill holdings, as estimated by Chesterton at 31 December 2003, was 789 million.
This was up from an equivalent gure of 741 million 12 months previous.
The valuation included 705 million for the retail component at Merry Hill and the Waterfront up from 663 million at 31 December 2002 and 52 million for other income producing investments, mostly commercial ofces at the Waterfront.
The balance of 32 million represents development land, the majority of which is canal side.
The above gures exclude the purchase of 163,300 sq ft of retail warehousing adjoining Merry Hill, partly comprising a terrace the remainder of which we already own.
The 29.4 million acquisition was completed in December 2003 and was carried in the year end balance sheet at cost.
4 Chelseld plc The retail component is valued on a reversionary yield of approximately 6.1 per cent, which is a little tighter than applied previously.
Almost 55 per cent of retail leases by rental value fall due for reassessment over the next 18 months.
The ERV gure from Chesterton of 43.0 million is consistent with the previous 30 June 2003 estimate and recognises a best prime zone A gure of 260 per square foot for which we have established letting evidence.
Negotiations are taking place currently on three units at, or marginally above, that level which will help consolidate comparables.
The net asset improvement arising from the increased valuation was lower than the near 6.5 per cent headline gure would suggest.
Expenditure of around 29 million was incurred during the year, the majority of which was non income producing.
After adjustment for investment, the increase in net assets relating to the retail component was around 3.6 per cent.
About half of the expenditure related to the cost of the new 1600 space multideck car park.
The resulting changes in accessibility and pedestrian ows are not yet reected in rental income.
They can be expected to help raise the eventual tone, which was another factor recognised by Chesterton in arriving at the lower valuation yield.
Shareholders may recall that the Merry Hill Brierley Hill Waterfront area benets from the stamp duty exemption provisions introduced last spring.
Chesterton have repeated the treatment adopted at June 2003 in allowing for a 2 per cent deduction from purchasers costs, being midway between the full 4 per cent and the exempt status enjoyed currently.
In contrast, CB Richard Ellis have made no deduction in estimating the value of our London properties with the same exemption.
The correct approach remains much debated and, despite the apparent inconsistency, there is logic behind the different methodologies used by the respective valuers.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in introducing the exemption, said that it would be subject to periodic review.
The evidence appears to be that the market will give credit on smaller lot sizes and where investment holding periods might be expected to be shorter.
Purchasers of assets of the scale of our holdings in Brierley Hill are likely to be looking over much longer time lines.
The reasonable expectation is that a prospective purchaser for Merry Hill would assume full costs to be incurred by a subsequent buyer on eventual disposal.
After much delay, the Secretary of State issued his proposed changes to the draft RPG11 for the West Midlands at the end of September 2003.
Most disappointing was the Ministers unwillingness to accept the recommendations set out in the report from the Independent Panel following an Examination in Public.
Instead he determined that new policies for the enlarged Brierley Hill, including both residential and retail enlargement, had to await the outcome of a sub-regional study to be carried out for the Black Country under the auspices of the Regional Planning Body.
The direction is that the study should be completed not later than 2005 but it remains to be seen whether that deadline will be treated seriously by anybody other than the participants.
5 Annual report and accounts 2003 Chairmans statement continued Paddington Marks and Spencer are in the process of completing tting out arrangements on the Waterside ofces.
The transfer of personnel to the new corporate headquarters will take place on a phased basis between June and August.
In contrast, an announcement was made by Orange in early January 2004 conrming that negotiations to sublet the still unoccupied Point building to St. Marys Hospital Trust had ceased and that the space was now fully available again.
We are told that there is some tenant interest being expressed.
This is to be expected given the attractiveness of the building and the relative lack of competing new product in what appears to be a slightly improving West End market.
It is also consistent with our own experience where there are early stirrings of potential pre lettings on the Grand Union Building.
The present intention is that we shall implement a marketing campaign on this second Richard Rogers Partnership designed building in late Spring.
The rate of residential sales at Paddington Walk is much in accordance with our expectations.
Some 40 per cent of the total of 153 private units have been contracted to date.
A waterfront marketing facility has been created which will also serve subsequent residential phases.
At current progress, we ought to be able to achieve approximately 70 per cent sales against a gross development value of 80 million by the end of December.
The 79 affordable apartments have been pre sold to Peabody Trust for a further 11 million.
First handovers are scheduled for June 2005.
The design development of The Winding is moving forward.
Revisions taking account of concerns related to the height of a proposed 20 storey residential tower have been submitted to Westminster Council and we are expecting a positive resolution within the next month.
The scheme will extend to a total of approximately 220 units.
The decision to commence construction on The Winding will have regard for the level of achieved sales at Paddington Walk.
The earliest start is likely to be late Autumn 2004.
6 Chelseld plc Stratford The planning applications for the new metropolitan centre at Stratford in East London will soon come before committee of the London Borough of Newham.
Chelseld along with our partners, Stanhope, have a development option over the 60 hectare former Rail lands site.
Stratford City will be a major new urban destination: our proposal is for 13 million square feet of balanced development to include almost 2 million square feet of retail and leisure and at least 4,500 new residential units.
The potential strategic signicance of the location is enhanced by the London 2012 Olympic bid.
The expectation is that the Stratford City applications will be determined positively by the local authority within 12 months of the original April 2003 submission.
This would represent a considerable achievement, given the immense scale of the proposal.
Following determination by the local authority, the applications will be subject to review by the London Mayor and the Ofce of the Deputy Prime Minister.
Development of metropolitan scale at Stratford has been provided for within the London Plan and is anticipated in the Sustainable Communities programme for the Thames Gateway.
Early clearance from both referring bodies will be required if the development partners are to prepare detailed designs in anticipation of the first land releases in Spring 2006.
Working to that programme we ought to be in a position to complete a first phase of predominantly retail and residential development to the south of the new Stratford international railway station either by Christmas 2009 or Spring of 2010.
I have become scarred by optimistic timetables which, in the event, we are not able to substantiate.
I would not want that outline programme to be taken as a rm prediction.
Stannifer Chelseld has an existing agreement with Ron Barrott pursuant to which we can acquire the Stannifer business which he founded and continues to chair.
The agreement expires on 17 March 2004 and the intention is to give notice of completion irrespective of the status of the Duelguide offer.
Since its inception in 1991, Stannifer has established good standing, particularly in retail park development and, more recently, for promoting mixed use schemes in central locations.
The business has a strong construction culture reecting, in part, Ron Barrotts own background and a reputation which is grounded in an integrated approach to project delivery.
The scale of Stannifer projects is typically smaller than those on which Chelseld has tended to concentrate.
Notwithstanding, in Aberdeen, Bradford and High Wycombe, as well as Spruceeld in Northern Ireland, Stannifer is directing schemes which all have the potential to become dominant within their catchment.
7 Annual report and accounts 2003 Chairmans statement continued Taken together, the projects currently under the direction of Chelseld and Stannifer represent a potentially very powerful retail development programme and one which does not require material land assembly beyond that already completed.
What is required is an availability of development capital to fund out a programme of this scale.
This is likely to necessitate the extensive introduction of third party project equity and to involve a resulting level of gearing which is far above that conventionally associated with publicly quoted property companies.
Total costs of acquisition will be in the order of 65 million, which compares favourably with a net asset value of 75 million estimated by reference to market valuations prepared by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung as at 31 December 2003.
Wentworth Wentworth turned in another commendable performance during 2003, resulting in operating profits which once again exceeded 5 million for the year.
The trading environment is still by no means easy and the results reect really well on everybody at the Club.
USA Following the decision to close the New York ofce, the programme of disposals is now mostly complete.
I made the observation in my interim statement that, unlike many overseas investors, Chelseld had been able to make money in North America.
An unavoidable consequence of the decision for closure was the crystallisation of previously contingent tax liabilities which are not capable of offset by losses elsewhere.
Bank debt and gearing Continued investment in our major projects, combined with transactional funding delays for Global Switch and White City, gave rise to an increase in borrowings above intended levels.
The consequential impact on gearing at 31 December 2003 was exacerbated by a fall in net asset value beyond that reported at the interim stage.
Net group borrowings of 958 million at 31 December 2003 showed a substantial increase from the total of 862 million reported at the previous year end.
There was actually a reduction against the 30 June 2003 gure resulting from the programme of asset disposals to which I made reference in my last interim statement.
Realised proceeds from that programme, including the sales in North America, aggregated 175 million during the scal year.
Borrowings have fallen further since the year end, notably as a result of the completion of the 90 million sale of Riverside House in February 2004.
8 Chelseld plc The fall in net asset value cut the denominator and brought about a consequent increase in gearing.
The December 2002 gure of 85 per cent was at the top end of the range in which we have looked to operate.
Moreover, levels of 98 per cent at 30 June and 104 per cent at 31 December 2003 went beyond the historic range.
The advised accounting treatment for the development of White City is that it will be necessary for the company to consolidate one half of total project costs on the face of the balance sheet.
Future reported gearing levels will naturally rise as a consequence.
The level of gearing at December 2003 required fresh facilities to be put in place as well as consent from certain lenders.
The arrangement of new facilities provided the group with undrawn amounts of 134 million at the year end.
Given the expectation of completion of the Morley transaction, loans to be renanced as part of those arrangements were not extended.
Out of net current liabilities of 347 million at 31 December 2003, 204 million related to Global Switch and are now renanced following the investment by Morley.
An additional 50 million falling due was secured on Riverside House for which contracts had already been exchanged.
Those monies have also since been repaid.
Cash balances at 31 December 2003 were higher than usual at 31 million, mostly on account of our retaining 17 million in North America for imminent payment of taxation arising on property sales.
Management and staff I would like to thank all the management team and staff for their dedication and hard work during a year in which huge demands have been made on everyone.
