02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Despite the political and economic trials of the first half, BBA has Corporate Governance performed very satisfactorily in 2003, particularly the significant BBA has always supported the key principles underlying good upturn in results in the second half of the year.
Our strategy of paying close attention to the fundamentals, During the year, we evaluated the revised Combined Code generating strong cash flows and investing to grow our which will apply to BBA throughout its 2004 financial year.
As will businesses has served us well again this year.
be evident from our Corporate Governance report, I am pleased to be able to say that the Company already largely complies with Financial Results these new provisions.
For the year, Group turnover on continuing operations was broadly similar at 1.3 billion after a negative currency impact of 66 million.
Corporate Social Responsibility Underlying pre-tax profits of 130 million were 7 million BBA takes its role as a responsible corporate citizen seriously.
lower than last year due to the first half effects of the war in Iraq, We have embraced the concept of corporate social responsibility currency translation and higher raw material costs.
Statutory in our practices and policies.
We published our second Annual profit before tax was 55 million 2002: 61 million.
Corporate Social Responsibility report in July 2003 the text of Underlying operating margins, despite the events of the which is on our website and it is encouraging to note that in most first half, stayed strong at 11.1 per cent 2002: 11.9 per cent and cases the Group continues to improve its performance.
During the we saw another year of very positive free cash flow at 87 million year one of our directors, Richard Stillwell, was designated as 2002: 79 million.
Adjusted earnings per share before goodwill responsible for CSR oversight across the Group.
Key initiatives for amortisation and exceptional items were 19.7 pence 2002: 20.4 2004 include the issue of an enhanced Group-wide policy on CSR pence a reduction of 3 per cent.
and Business Ethics, which will provide guiding principles for our businesses and people worldwide.
Dividends Following the interim dividend of 3.2 pence paid on 7 November People 2003, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.6 pence BBA is a challenging place to work.
But we have an excellent 2002: 7.4 pence payable on 21 May 2004 to shareholders on the group of people, whose commitment is second to none.
This will make total dividends for 2003 grateful therefore to all 12,300 of them and their efforts of 10.8 pence 2002: 10.5 pence.
Board and Management Outlook Following the changes of 2002, this has been a stable year at both The Group held up well under the challenges of the first half and Board and Management levels.
In 2004, after nine years as a nonrecovered strongly thereafter.
This momentum, we believe, can be executive director, Irv Yoskowitz is stepping down from the Board.
Clearly, with 64 per cent of our profits I would like to express my own and the Boards gratitude to Irv for arising in North America, our reported earnings are dependent to all the valuable advice and support he has given over a period of some degree on the future US dollar to sterling rate.
we are confident that, being consistent in our approach, we can Peter Whitehead, Chief Executive of BBA Aviation Systems continue to move forward and build a larger and stronger Group Group, is retiring in May of this year.
Again, I would like to thank over the coming years.
him for the 11 years of effort he has given the Group.
