02 Pillar Property PLC Chairmans statement Pillar led a consortium which successfully bid for the Chartwell retail warehouse portfolio for 695 million.
This has been another busy year for Pillar.
Profits Profits before tax for the year to share was 55 million.
HUT has nearly 50 unit as retailers look for smaller units with Directly, or indirectly through the Hercules 31 March 2003 were 15.9 million compared holders and is now one of the widest held trading mezzanines to reduce the impact Unit Trust HUT, 11 retail parks have been with a loss of 11.7 million for the previous specialist property unit trusts.
This indicates of rising rentals.
acquired and 18 sold for an aggregate of year.
Management and performance fees from its increasing liquidity and broadening appeal In January, Pillar led a consortium of four 820 million: we have sold all our remaining HUT and CLOUT amounted to 16.8 million to institutional investors and we and the fund parties, including HUT, which successfully City offices other than those properties held compared to 16 million for the year ended managers will be continuing to extend this bid for 19 parks being sold by Chartwell, a in The City of London Office Unit Trust 31 March 2002. wider ownership during the forthcoming year.
subsidiary of Kingfisher, for a total consideration CLOUT : we have made our first significant The total return to HUT investors during the of 695 million.
The strong competition Dividend We are recommending a final investment in continental Europe and we have year to 31 March 2003 was 24.7% compared and interest shown in this prime portfolio dividend of 5.7p per share making a total for returned a further 143 million as part of our with the IPD monthly benchmark of 17.9%.
indicates that there remains considerable the year of 8p, an increase of 9.6% over last strategy of returning capital to shareholders.
HUT currently has 23 parks valued institutional demand in this sector.
The dividend will be paid at 1.8 billion with a total floor area of parks acquired, four were bought by HUT, on 25 July 2003.
4.7 million sq ft, 89% of which is on parks in two development sites by Pillar and the Net assets valuation Net assets per share excess of 100,000 sq ft.
The HUT portfolio remainder by the other consortium parties.
were 520p compared with 433p last year, continues to be reversionary.
As at 31 March In addition to its investment in HUT, Pillar an increase of 20%, most of this increase 2003, its rental income is expected to increase now has five parks in the course of coming from the strong performance of HUT.
from the current level of 88 million to development, one of which is held in a joint A contributing factor was also the recent 109 million when reviewed to current levels, venture.
A further three parks are being forward abolition of stamp duty on sites in regeneration this ignoring any future rental growth.
These developments, which are areas which is applicable to some of Pillars being or will be developed when appropriate Retail parks We continue to experience growth and HUTs properties.
planning consents are received, will amount to in the retail park sector.
Although there has nearly 1.6 million sq ft of space with a value in Investment strategy As stated last year been much recent comment about the current excess of 750 million and this is a key element when we announced the return of capital to state of retailing in the UK and the reduction in ensuring that a pipeline of modern retail shareholders, our focus was to reduce our unit in consumer spending, we are still seeing space can be offered to HUT over the next few holding in both trusts, particularly HUT, during strong demand from occupiers for the parks, years.
As at 31 March 2003, Pillars share particularly for those with full open planning in HUT was 42% compared with 48% at consents.
Increasingly, more and more high City offices At the beginning of 2002, 31 March 2002.
Whilst we had intended street retailers are developing out-of-town Pillars net investment in the City of London that our holding by now would have been formats to take advantage of the lower was 114 million comprising units in CLOUT, nearer our target of 35%, we had to ensure occupational costs, free parking and easy our share in the joint venture owning Cannon that the sale process was an orderly one and access that our parks offer by comparison Bridge and our ownership of an office building accommodated unit sales being made by with the high street or shopping centres.
During the year, Cannon Bridge other core investors.
During the year to As it evolves, the retail park market is was sold as was the Cheapside property, these 31 March 2003, units to a total value of becoming more sophisticated, with planning sales reducing our exposure in the City by 25%.
136 million have been sold of which Pillars and unit flexibility increasingly important 03 Pillar Property PLC Below Nassica Retail and Our holding in CLOUT remains unchanged at major co-investors at an early stage whilst we Leisure Park, Madrid.
36%, but the value has fallen by 14 million to build up a European portfolio and in time, we 73 million.
The City has been a very difficult plan to set up a European fund along the lines market and we believe that this situation will of HUT, in which we would have a meaningful continue for some time to come.
However, stake and be the property adviser generating although we have seen a considerable fall in management and performance fees.
the value of the two development properties, Outlook Last year, I advised of the proposed the valuations of the investment properties change in Pillars strategy to concentrate which constitute 90% of the CLOUT portfolio on assets under management and reduce have been less affected as they have high our capital base by the return of capital.
We We remain committed to the retail park remain actively committed to the long-term sector and, as a result, have invested in a prosperity of the City of London and believe number of prime retail park developments that the current difficulties in the market will which will, when completed, be offered to HUT.
in due course offer investment opportunities.
These schemes have required capital which, Retail & Leisure Our two leisure schemes for the time being, has prevented our making in Fulham and Edinburgh are now complete further returns to shareholders.
and are virtually fully let.
We will be putting With an active HUT, opportunities for both properties on the market later this year.
CLOUT in the longer term and a promising The Castle Quay shopping centre in Banbury, new European portfolio, we shall be well placed in which we have a 50% interest, is also to build up our management income over the in the process of being sold.
The one issue which we believe has yet to be properly addressed is the lack of Europe Our initial expansion into retail parks recognition of the value of this management in continental Europe has been slower than income.
We are considering ways in which we originally planned.
The identification of we can accelerate the release of value from suitable opportunities has taken time and our asset base and increase the focus on many prospects have been investigated but management income and earnings growth.
Our first investment, a 530,000 sq ft park to the south of Madrid, was completed in January.
We now have in prospect some very attractive opportunities of which we expect four, with an ultimate aggregate value of over 150 million, to have been contracted by the HR Mould Chairman end of June.
It is our intention to involve a few 22 May 2003
