Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that Quintain has had another successful year, in which we have achieved a total return of 16%, or 13% net of inflation.
NET ASSET VALUE I am pleased to report that Quintain has had another successful year, in which we have achieved a PER SHARE total return of 16%, or 13% net of inflation.
This comfortably exceeded our internal targets of 10% The net asset value per share of total return net of inflation a performance I am glad to say we have consistently achieved every 348p achieved in this financial year year since flotation.
is 2.85 times the figure recorded at the date of flotation.
This increase We have also significantly outperformed the property market as measured by the industry benchmark, has been achieved through corporate IPD.
Quintains total ungeared return for the UK over the reporting period was 12%, compared with acquisitions and from continuing organic growth created through IPDs average of 8.7%, which puts us comfortably in the first quartile.
"In the year to 31 March 2003, active management of the existing the undiluted net asset value ""NAV"" rose 13% to 348p per share from last years 307p and by 13% portfolio and the generation of revaluation surpluses arising from to 342p from 302p on a diluted basis."
Further contributions from these sources are The main driver of this uplift was the surplus on the portfolio revaluations.
The most significant expected in the coming years.
contributions arose from our Meridian Delta project, our investment in Wembley and also from our retail holdings acquired as part of the Chesterfield corporate deal.
Details of these projects and a full review of our operations follow in the Chief Executives Review.
The nature of the Companys business causes earnings to be volatile, particularly because of the major, long-term special projects which tend to be initially very low yielding.
In recognition of this, we measure our performance based on total return and look to the other parts of the Group to provide cash flow.
Following this strategy, during the year, the Company sold a further 88 million of higher yielding properties, where value had been extracted, to fund new opportunities particularly the Wembley Complex.
Bearing this strategy in mind and as anticipated, earnings per share fell by 18% in the period from 11.5p per share to 9.4p per share, with a reduction in underlying profits per share of 19% to 8.8p per share 2002: 10.9p.
Further explanation is provided in the Financial Review below.
During the year, we were pleased to see that the share price outperformed the FTSE All Share by 18% and the FTSE Real Estate Index by 19%.
We believe this is attributable to a number of factors including a re-rating in the market of the potential of the Companys portfolio and strategy and the purchase of 2.7 million of our own shares during the reporting period at an average price of 225p.
Whilst our shares continue to stand at a discount to NAV, we will regularly consider further share purchases.
However, these will, as always, be constrained by gearing levels, by the amount of available distributable reserves which, in such a young company, can be a limiting factor and other potential uses for these reserves which may secure enhanced shareholder returns.
QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 6 Wembley Arena, Wembley DIVIDEND POLICY DIVIDEND As a result of this years strong performance in terms of total returns, but allowing for the cash Since flotation, the Group has pursued a progressive dividend requirements of the business and in line with the Companys preference for a progressive dividend policy which has seen dividends policy, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.25p per share.
With the interim dividend of grow in each year, rising from 2.75p per share, this makes a total distribution for the year of 8.0p per share as compared with 3.0p in 1996 97 to 8.0p in the current year.
In deciding on the 7.5p in the previous year, an uplift of 7%.
It is intended that the final dividend will be paid on distribution, the Board has regard 5 September 2003 to shareholders on the register as at 15 August 2003.
The aim to deliver strong to the cash needs of the business to ensure that there are sufficient dividend growth has been upheld since Quintain was listed in 1996 and we anticipate maintaining funds to support growth targets this policy for as long as it remains in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
within the agreed gearing strategy.
BOARD CHANGES We were delighted to welcome two new directors to the Board during the year to 31 March 2003.
James Hamilton Stubber was appointed as Chief Operating Officer in September 2002 and John Plender joined the Company as a non-executive director and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in July.
During the year, we also announced the resignations of two executive directors, Edward Dugdale and Michael Riley, and one non-executive director, John Evans.
Over the next few years the Company will progress significantly.
I have been asked by the Board to oversee this process and am pleased to report that I shall continue as Chairman.
I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Wembley staff to Quintain and stress my gratitude to everyone working for the Company including my fellow directors, for their continuing hard work and flow of ideas which have enabled our Company to continue to perform so well.
OUTLOOK This has been a year of significant achievement for Quintain.
We continued to benefit from the income from our core portfolio of assets and have also created an exceptional pipeline of Special Projects, including the regeneration of the Greenwich Peninsula and Wembley.
With these exciting opportunities and a committed and entrepreneurial team, I am confident that the Company faces a future of ongoing growth and success.
Nigel Ellis Chairman 4 June 2003 ANNUAL REPORT 2003 7
