Chairmans statement G Stanley Thomas OBE This has been another very challenging year for all those involved in the aviation industry, and TBI is no exception.
For a variety of well understood reasons the number of passengers travelling by commercial aircraft has reduced this year on a worldwide basis.
At the same time, the costs of insurance and security for all aviation related businesses, including airports, have risen markedly.
Our airports have not been completely immune to such factors and this year has seen net additional insurance and security costs of some 1.7 million.
However, whilst not immune from the general downturn, the number of passengers travelling from our owned or managed airports marginally increased in 2003 remarkable in the circumstances.
The reason for the relative immunity is the very limited presence of full service airlines and long haul services at our UK airports, and it is those airlines and services which have borne the brunt of the general decrease in passenger numbers.
Instead the largest airline customers of our four European airports are budget or low cost airlines, all of which have enjoyed significant increases in the number of passengers carried, both generally and through our airports in particular.
This trend of an increasing number of passengers using low cost compared with full service airlines, is part of a structural change in the industry which has been underway for some time.
A consequence of this change is manifest in the financial performance this year which saw earnings reduced.
Part of this reduction is attributable to the increased costs already mentioned, but part also to the different revenues provided by the low cost carriers.
EBITDA reduced by some 5.8 million but that should be put in the context of the 1.7 million, some 29.3% of the total, relating to additional insurance and security.
Similarly earnings per share and earnings per share before amortisation and exceptional items have reduced to 0.82 pence and 2.86 pence from 1.47 pence and 3.52 pence last year respectively.
These reductions have not been caused by reduced levels of activity and our assets continue to provide good cash flows, and display considerable potential.
However, whilst this has undoubtedly been a year of consolidation it does represent very much a base year.
Our airline passenger profile is now established and the dramatic impact on earnings from the replacement of one type of customer by another is, I believe, behind us.
Operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
We use EBITDA as a measure of our financial performance, rather than operating profit, as we believe it to be the measure most relevant to readers of our financial statements.
The consolidated profit and loss account is set out on page 30.
TBI has an attractive collection of assets which have demonstrated their robustness, and which remain scarce and sought after 02 TBI Annual report and accounts 2003 Chairmans statement Instead, our aeronautical revenues have a much more homogenised appearance and, in future, increases in passenger numbers should convert into increased earnings.
As a result, the Board is recommending holding the dividend.
That means a final dividend of 1.60 pence per share to be paid on 1 October 2003, bringing the total dividend for the year to 2.30 pence per share.
The robustness of our businesses, and indeed the changed customer profile, have not been achieved by accident.
The initiatives which saw new bases established at Skavsta and Cardiff by Ryanair and bmibaby respectively are good examples of airports and airlines working together to exploit market demand and to take advantage of changed passenger requirements.
I am confident that we shall be part of similar successes in the future as low cost traffic, particularly intra-Europe, continues to grow.
In the face of such tough market conditions, I am again grateful to be part of such a strong Board of Directors who have demonstrated pragmatism and resilience.
During the year, the Board was further strengthened by the appointment of Larry Gouldthorpe who has responsibility for all our interests in the Americas.
Tim Simon, who has been a non-executive director since 1995, will be standing down at the Annual General Meeting.
Tim has been a stalwart supporter from the early days of our development as a listed property company, through the metamorphosis into an airports group and in the recent challenging times.
He leaves us with our heartfelt thanks and best wishes for the future.
In these changed times for aviation and the world economy, economic fundamentals are more important than ever.
At TBI we have an attractive collection of assets which have demonstrated their robustness, and which remain scarce and sought after.
Demand for use of our airports shows no sign of abatement and we have a management team which has again proved its ability to adapt and innovate.
These are a great collection of strengths with which to go forward and build on, and I am sure we will.
G Stanley Thomas OBE Chairman 03 TBI Annual report and accounts 2003 Chairmans statement
