02 3i Report and accounts 2003 Baroness Hogg Chairman The substantial changes we have made to the Chairmans business in the past year to sharpen our competitive position, improve our investment processes and statement increase efficiency provide 3i with a much stronger base for growth.
This has been a year of challenge Despite the virtual closure of and change for 3i.
Our mid-market the market for new issues, we buy-out business achieved a achieved a strong flow of strong performance, despite the realisations: a total of nearly faltering economic recovery.
But 1 billion, at a healthy profit over market conditions were particularly the value at which these difficult for our technology investments were held at the portfolio.
3i has responded to the beginning of the year.
Income, challenge by restructuring its too, has held up well in a difficult organisation along product lines, environment, and costs have been giving clear leadership to all parts reduced.
The Board is of the business, while using its recommending a final dividend of international network to help the 8.6p, making a total dividend of portfolio companies in which it 13.5p, an increase of 3.8% from invests to realise their potential 13.0p last year.
A particular strength of 3is The rigour with which we have business in times like these is the reviewed the value of our balance of our three key product technology portfolio has had an groups buy-outs, growth capital impact on our net asset value, and early stage technology.
Our contributing to a negative return Chief Executive, Brian Larcombe, on shareholders funds of 23.7% has carried out an extensive over the year to 31 March 2003. reorganisation of management and It may be small comfort to investment processes to provide shareholders that this is still less each with international leadership than the drop in our benchmark, and focus.
the FTSE All-Share, which fell The buy-out business, led by 29.8%, or the FTSE SmallCap, Jonathan Russell, achieved some which was down 33.4%.
As the strong realisations during the year charts on page 1 show, we have such as Go, the low cost airline.
also maintained our record of long The benefits of local origination of term outperformance.
But our investment opportunities, sector share price, which proved volatile focus and product expertise are during the year, was 47% down in also coming through with new the year to 31 March.
investments by the buy-out team, such as fide Telefoongids.
