Business Review and Forward-looking Statements Chairmans Statement In February 2003, we announced a significant shift in our strategy and plans to focus solely on Personal Financial Services in the UK.
This meant we needed to fundamentally change how we worked as a company, and revitalise the services we offered to our customers.
We have achieved a lot in the first year of our three year programme but there is still much to do.
During the year, weve strengthened the management team with Priscilla Vacassin Human Resources Director, Angus Porter Customer Propositions Director and Tony Wyatt Customer Operations Director all new to Abbey in the last 12 months.
In December last year, we also announced changes among our non-executive directors.
We have made extensive changes throughout the business to our structure, our accounts and services and peoples roles, and this has understandably brought uncertainty with it.
Im pleased that the response from our people to the sheer volume of change were making has been extremely positive, which is essential if we are to succeed in the coming years.
A priority this time last year was to reduce risk in the business.
The progress to date has been outstanding and by the end of 2004 those risks within the Portfolio Business Unit will have been substantially removed.
The speed at which we addressed this issue by selling or winding down assets in the Portfolio Business Unit has meant that losses have been brought forward, and these are a major part of the loss were reporting for the second successive year.
There have, however, been other charges, including asset write downs, and charges in relation to our Life companies.
Our results reect the cost of actions that we have had to take to reduce risk in the business and get it onto a rm footing.
Were working hard to turn the business around, and to return Abbey to growth.
Its important to stress that there are still significant challenges to come and that risks remain.
As we work through this process we will of course keep you up to date, and give you regular updates on our priorities and progress.
Weve shown we can make tough decisions, and are driving through an unprecedented level of change.
We remain extremely focused and single-minded in our approach and vision, and intend that in 2004 we will start to deliver tangible improvements to both our customers and our shareholders.
Lord Burns Chairman 2 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003
