CHAIRMANS STATEMENT REVIEW OF 2003 PERFORMANCE The year to December 2003 has seen most stockmarkets around the world generate positive returns, a welcome relief after the negative returns of the recent past.
A fairly common characteristic was the outperformance by smaller over larger companies.
The UK shared this characteristic with ASCoTs benchmark index the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies producing a total return of 43.0% while the FTSE All-Share Index representative of larger companies produced a total return of 20.9%.
ASCoT produced a total return of 37.1%, therefore underperforming its benchmark index.
Your Managers Report analyses the reasons for this underperformance.
While disappointing, it is clearly still pleasing to report such good absolute returns and also to reect on ASCoTs longer term relative performance.
For example, over three years, ASCoTs total return is 33.6% compared to the benchmark indexs total return of 4.6%, a significant outperformance.
Your Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 6.6p, which produces total dividends for the year of 10.1p, an increase of 6.3% on the total dividends paid for the previous year.
Subject to Shareholders approval, the final dividend of 6.6p per share will be paid on 5 March 2004 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 February 2004.
Your Board is also pleased to introduce a Dividend Re-investment Plan to allow Shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy shares easily and at a low cost via the Companys registrars.
An explanatory letter and mandate are enclosed should you wish to use this service.
ABERFORTH SPLIT LEVEL TRUST plc ASLeT Shareholders voted in favour of offering ASCoT as a roll over option in connection with the reconstruction of ASLeT in late October.
Your Board is delighted to welcome those ASLeT Shareholders who elected for ASCoT.
Proceeds of 61.9 million were received and 13,991,054 new Ordinary Shares were issued on 10 November 2003.
The proceeds were substantially represented by an investment portfolio virtually identical to ASCoTs and no costs were incurred by ASCoT.
The net result was a highly efficient, cost effective enlargement of ASCoT that should enhance its attraction to both existing and potential Shareholders.
WARRANTS There are no longer any Warrants in issue.
The final exercise date was 31 March 2003 and, as a result, 963,311 new Ordinary Shares were issued.
Earlier in the year, 40,000 Warrants were bought in for cancellation at a price that enhanced Shareholder value.
SHARE BUY BACK AUTHORITY AND TREASURY SHARES At the Companys Annual General Meeting in February 2003 the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary Shares then in issue was renewed.
Your Board will be seeking a renewal of this authority on the enlarged number of issued Ordinary Shares at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 February 2004.
Your Board has established and keeps under careful review the circumstances under which such authority will be utilised.
Should these arise, the Company will seek to purchase Ordinary Shares.
Any Ordinary Shares bought back by the Company would be cancelled.
Your Board does not currently consider it appropriate to seek Shareholders authority to hold such Ordinary Shares in treasury.
We will, however, keep that policy under review and revert to Shareholders if and when deemed appropriate.
CANCELLATION OF SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 29 October 2003 a special resolution was approved to cancel the entire share premium account of the Company, including that part arising on the issue of new ASCoT Ordinary Shares in respect of ASLeTs reconstruction.
This cancellation also requires the approval of the Court and this is expected during the first quarter of 2004.
The special reserve arising on the cancellation of the share premium account can be used by the Company for any purposes for which distributable profits are available under the Companies Act 1985.
These include the funding of share buy-backs subject to any restrictions which the Court may impose.
8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BOARD STRUCTURE It is your Boards objective to be at the forefront of good corporate governance and it has adopted the revised Combined Code and The AITCs Code on Corporate Governance and the Boards report can be found on pages 23 to 25.
It is your Boards wish to go beyond the current minimum requirements of The Association of Investment Trust Companies and The Combined Code by having all Directors seek re-election each year, rather than every three years or after a specified term.
Keith Miller will not seek re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting having served Shareholders for thirteen years, since ASCoTs inception.
Your Board wishes to record its sincere appreciation for Keiths valuable input over the years.
Hamish Buchan was appointed a Director on 11 November 2003 having been a director of ASLeT.
Your Board will doubtless benefit from Hamishs considerable experience of the investment trust industry.
I have served Shareholders as Chairman since ASCoTs inception, which by the time of the Annual General Meeting in 2005 will be fourteen years.
I will not seek re-election at that Annual General Meeting and it is anticipated that David Shaw will then assume the role of Chairman.
During 2004 a further independent Director will be sought in order to ensure the Board comprises no less than five and no more than six members.
OUTLOOK Small UK quoted companies have performed well in stockmarket terms during 2003, not only by achieving strong absolute gains but also by outperforming larger companies.
However, they ended the year still valued at a price earnings discount to larger companies that is close to the average since ASCoTs inception in 1990.
In addition, dividend cover is materially better for small companies compared to larger companies suggesting, other things being equal, the potential for superior dividend growth.
ASCoT enjoyed good absolute returns in 2003 but underperformed its benchmark and the contributing factors are expanded upon in your Managers Report.
Periods of underperformance are an inevitable result of the consistent application of your Managers value investment style.
These have occurred in other periods of ASCoTs life.
Managers, in general, often lean on good longer term performance data when experiencing short term underperformance.
Mindful of this your Board is, however, confident that ASCoTs portfolio is sound and that your Managers efforts, consistently applied, will produce outperformance in the future.
