BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 I am pleased that my first report to you as Chairman of BG Group is of a company that continues to perform strongly.
In 2003, operating profit increased by 41% and earnings excluding exceptional items increased by 61%.
We have raised the dividend by 12% to 3.46 pence per share and set ourselves the aim of real long-term growth in dividends in the future.
The increase in this years dividend reflects the successful execution of our strategy since demerger and our confidence in the outlook for earnings and cash flow.
The Group performed well against the ambitious targets it set itself in a five year programme in 1999.
The general business climate remained difficult throughout last year.
The threat of international terrorism has contributed Chairmans Statement to political and macroeconomic uncertainty in many regions, including I am pleased to some in which we operate.
The global economic environment has improved to report that BG Group a modest extent, although recovery has been very uneven between regions.
continues to Against this background the demand for energy in the Groups main markets 02 perform strongly.
Gas prices during the year were firm both in the UK and the USA and therefore contributed to our financial performance.
Sir Robert Wilson, Chairman The central theme in BG Groups strategy is straightforward.
We aim to connect high value markets to competitively priced gas, quickly and efficiently.
In doing so, we aim to achieve good returns for our shareholders whilst providing a good service to our customers and contributing to the economies of the countries in which we operate.
Looking to the future, we expect to see continuing growth in demand for gas, especially in European and US markets where we believe we have particularly strong market positions.
In the USA, a shortfall in domestic reserves and rising prices for natural gas point to a rapid increase in demand for Liquefied Natural Gas LNG through the rest of this decade and beyond.
Although Exploration and Production will remain the main contributor to the Groups results, we see LNG as an important area of growth for us.
We have a strong position in the Atlantic Basin and Excluding exceptional items see Presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 140.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 therefore expect to be a substantial Sir Richard Giordano retired as beneficiary of the surging demand Chairman and from the Board of for LNG in the USA.
He had been Chairman of BG Group and its In terms of corporate governance, predecessor companies for ten years BG Group, like all major companies, and led the restructuring of the former operates against a background of British Gas to achieve much greater increasingly high standards and public focus and sense of purpose in the scrutiny.
I am confident that the Group resultant businesses.
He was a great meets the highest standards.
More architect of change and contributed fundamentally, we have robust enormously to the creation of processes to identify and manage risk shareholder wealth.
and the Group has an absolute commitment to integrity in all At our AGM this year, David Benson, its operations.
who has been a non-executive Director of BG Group and of its predecessor Modern companies need to take a companies for 15 years, will also be broad view of their responsibilities retiring.
He has been an important to the societies in which they operate.
contributor to the Group throughout This tends to be particularly true of his tenure.
extractive industries even when the product, such as ours, is one that is Sir Richard and David leave with favoured for reasons of convenience both our thanks and best wishes for to customers and for its environmental the future.
The Groups Business Principles reflect the Boards commitment to responsible citizenship wherever we operate in the world.
They provide a firm foundation of values and operating 03 principles to guide management decisions.
2003 was only the third full year of Sir Robert Wilson, Chairman operation since the demerger which created BG Group in its current form.
The Groups performance over this period has been good, demonstrating an ability to create shareholder value and deliver our targets.
As I take over as Chairman, I anticipate many opportunities to build on these strong foundations as a world leader in natural gas.
Sir Richard Giordano KBE Sir Richard Giordano became a non-executive Director of British Gas plc in December 1993 and became Chairman in January 1994.
He was Chief Executive between May 1996 and February 1997 when British Gas split into two companies BG plc and Centrica plc.
He became non-executive Chairman of both companies and resigned as chairman and director of Centrica on 30 June 1997.
He remained as Chairman of BG Group plc when it demerged the Lattice Group in October 2000 and retired on 31 December 2003.
