Chairmans Statement We delivered record profits in 2003 and met all our strategic targets.
Implementation of our strategy is delivering excellent total returns for our shareholders.
John Windeler, Chairman I am pleased to be able to report another The market is evolving in a way that will give us competitive advantage.
Both successful year for Alliance & Leicester plc.
personal and commercial customers are increasingly using direct channels Financial Results for their basic banking transactions, Pre-tax profit in 2003 was a record but they also wish to use branches or 525m, up 12% on 2002.
Basic earnings other face-to-face contact for more per share were up 16% to 79.0p.
The complex enquiries and purchases.
Board has proposed a final dividend of We have proven skills in these direct 29.6p, making a total dividend of 43.9p, channels telephone, internet and ATM a 10% increase on the equivalent gure banking together with a compact for 2002. and professional branch network.
By continuing to build a direct bank with Shareholder Returns a high street presence, we are well The Groups strategy is working, and placed for the future.
this is reected in the returns we have generated for our shareholders.
Since Board and Management July 2000, when we launched our We continue to add to the existing strategy, we have generated a Total strengths of our Board and on 1 October Shareholder Return TSR of 114%.
2003 announced the appointment of This compares to a TSR of minus 23% Chris Rhodes as Managing Director, for the FTSE 100 Index, and a TSR Retail Banking.
Chris has demonstrated of 28% for the banking sector index considerable leadership skills since over the same period.
he joined the Board in June 2002 as Operations Director, and we are During 2003 Alliance & Leicester confident in his ability to successfully shareholders received a TSR of 25%.
grow our Retail Banking business.
This compares to a TSR of 18% for the FTSE 100 Index, and a TSR of 24% for We have also appointed two additional the banking sector index.
Peter Stone and Jane Barker both have broad commercial Strategy experience, and they also have specic Our strategy is reected by our skills which will be of great overall benefit brand values of rewarding customers to our Board.
In particular, Peter Stone who buy more from us, offering has extensive experience in the eld of better value products, developing commercial banking, and will make a straightforward processes, and valuable contribution to the Groups providing friendly, approachable Wholesale Banking strategy.
By delivering has extensive experience in financial these brand values we are ideally services, and will add further valuable positioned for continued success.
financial expertise to the Board.
2 Alliance & Leicester Further details of all directors can by being a responsible employer and be found on pages 22 and 23 of through charitable giving and staff 888 this Report.
We update our Corporate 802 Social Responsibility report annually, 746 Business Performance and we continue to make a valuable Each of the Groups business sectors contribution to our local communities had a successful 2003, as is highlighted through donations, gifts-in-kind and 5,217 elsewhere in this Report.
4,477 reect the continuing excellent work of 3,940 the executive team, under Richard Pyms The Future leadership, as well as the dedication and The financial success shown in our 2003 ability of our staff.
results demonstrates the value of our strategy for our shareholders, a strategy '01 '02 '03 Alliance & Leicester is widely regarded we believe represents the future for A&L Share Price pence as being a low-risk bank and a responsible banking in the UK, and which we believe FTSE 100 index lender that pays considerable attention will continue to deliver real value for At 31 December to being fair to customers.
We have our customers and shareholders going worked hard to gain and maintain this forward.
I am confident that 2004 will reputation, and we will continue to be another successful year for the Group.
pursue responsible lending in each of our markets.
John Windeler, Chairman Corporate Governance The Board recognises the value of good corporate governance, not only 36.3 39.9 43.9 in the areas of accountability and risk management, but also as a positive contribution to business prosperity.
The Board has reviewed the main and supporting principles and provisions set out in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, and is satisfied that it complies with those provisions in all material respects.
'01 '02 '03 Corporate Social Responsibility We believe that we have an important Dividend Per role to play in our local communities, Share pence Annual Report & Accounts 2003 3
