directors report chairmans statement Our objective is to provide the core investment for those who wish to build up a long-term store of increasing value The last year has been a stormy one for capital markets, distribution of savings products.
It is to be hoped that ending at a time of great economic and geopolitical common sense will prevail and that the root of many of the uncertainty.
The valuation of our assets has declined for the problems in the marketplace - the incentivised selling of second year running, this time by 28%, although by long-term products on short-term criteria - which it has contrast we have been able to increase the dividend again.
been our policy to avoid, will be tackled without damaging The 36 year run of consecutive increases is particularly the strengths which companies such as our own have welcome in these times of falling interest rates and displayed for over a century.
One of these strengths is the ability to change with the times.
We now do more of our own investment research, The reasons for the market turmoil combine genuine the savings side of the business is innovative and growing economic difficulty in economies and companies worldand we have made progress in improving communications wide with a major change in the perception of equities as between the Company and its stockholders.
The bursting of the technology bubble at the start of 2000 started the process, which was accelerated by None of this would be effective without dedicated staff, the events of 11 September 2001, various corporate committed managers and a focussed board of directors.
scandals and, particularly in the last year, the unravelling of This year we have welcomed two new directors to the many financial structures engineered at a time when equity Board.
Christopher Masters joins as a non-executive and growth was taken for granted.
brings us his insight and depth of management experience.
David Deards, with his banking and wealth management As an essentially equity fund, we have not been immune experience, joins us as Finance Director.
These from the falls, but our stocks have generally outperformed appointments were predicated last year when we asked their markets.
Diversification has reduced exposure to stockholders to authorise an increase in the size of the specific risks in companies, industries or economies and Board and are in anticipation of the retirement of Gavin we have remained ungeared with significant sums held in Suggett in 2004.
We are asking stockholders to approve cash and bonds.
these appointments at the AGM together with adjustments Over the longer term the resilience of our approach is likely to Directors' fees as explained in the Directors' to more than make up for the less volatile returns which Remuneration Report.
might be expected over shorter periods.
Indeed the last Next year we hope to be able to report a better valuation, year has seen many investment companies fail, or change but we are very conscious of the many imponderables their financial structures, when the risks they had taken on which lie in wait over the next 12 months.
These seem to began to crystallise.
affect just about every form of long-term savings and The hardship and political fallout caused by these problems investment and there has rarely been a more appropriate has spawned a plethora of investigations, consultation time to preach the merits of investing in a diversified trust.
papers and proposals which cover many of the areas in which we operate: investment trusts, pensions and the Bruce W M Johnston 2
