Chairmans Review BHP Billitons unique set of assets, value-focused strategies, strong balance sheet and dedicated workforce leave it well placed to prosper over the coming year.
Don Argus, Chairman At the time of the merger, BHP Billiton articulated its vision to Growth in earnings has been created through efficiency gains, earn superior returns for shareholders as the worlds premier which improve our margins throughout the cycle and therefore supplier of natural resources and related products and services.
The marketing of our products has been totally restructured, again with the goal of improving our Put simply, the Board and management recognised the changes margins and competitiveness, to become more valuable to occurring in our industry and the global economy and saw an our customers.
opportunity to create an entity that would provide long-term growth from a stable base and a global footprint.
Determining value Ultimately, it is the ability to manage our assets well and execute Over the past year, we have made significant progress in creating profitable growth opportunities that creates value in the value and building the fundamental platform that allows us to Company and will provide superior, sustainable returns for produce a stable, healthy cash flow throughout the economic shareholders.
So let us look at the value that has been delivered cycle.
This years progress, whereby BHP Billiton generated solid to shareholders in recent years.
earnings and recorded significant operating achievements, sits against a background of a struggling world economy, some low Today, BHP Billiton has a market capitalisation of approximately commodity prices, a war in the Middle East and the impact of US$42 billion, compared to a market capitalisation of stronger operating currencies.
US$28 billion at the time of the merger and US$35 billion at year end.
Results and growth Despite the challenging environment, our earnings before The value of our Company is determined by the future cash flows interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation were US$5.1 billion: generated from existing operations and internal and external our available cash flow after interest and tax reached growth initiatives.
While for any individual business these cash US$3.6 billion and we increased the dividend to 14.5 US cents flows may be quite volatile as a result of changes in prices, a share, an increase of 11.5 per cent over last year.
exchange rates, markets and the level of demand for our commodities, our diverse portfolio of assets reduces this The strength of our earnings this year and, indeed, since the volatility to provide greater stability of overall cash flow.
merger, demonstrate our fundamental investment proposition of stability and growth.
This proposition is based on world-class The share market value of the Company may differ from the assets, a strong management team and significant growth theoretical value of the Company due to a variety of factors.
opportunities in an entity with scale and diversification.
One of the reasons for this is the increasingly complex From our high-quality operating base, we continued to deliver accounting conventions and standards, including the effect on the promised efficiency gains and the Company remains in a the balance sheet of currency translations.
strong position to continue to develop its suite of assets.
While the weakening of the US dollar has a real cash impact on Growth has been delivered in a number of forms.
Five new the Company, a great deal of the impact is non-cash and due to projects have been delivered since July 2002, on or ahead of a requirement to revalue non-US dollar denominated monetary budget and schedule.
A further 14 projects are currently in items on the balance sheet and take any change in value through development, representing more than US$4.6 billion of future our income statement.
This can increase the volatility of our investment.
earnings and it is why we encourage investors to focus on cash flow in addition to earnings.
Future growth will be generated from our exploration activities, in which we invested a further US$348 million during the year.
2 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 In the last few years, share markets and share prices have An independent review of the Board was also undertaken during become increasingly volatile.
So while the inherent value of the year.
The review focused on areas such as the role of the businesses, and earnings generated, may have remained Board, performance evaluation, procedures and practices, and relatively stable, the value attributed by markets to a business, behaviours and cohesion.
Action programs that evolve from this such as BHP Billiton, has fluctuated widely.
review will be developed to assist the Board to be more effective, both collectively and individually, going forward.
Financial markets will continue to be volatile for the foreseeable future.
While BHP Billiton is not immune from these influences, Corporate governance if we continue to deliver growth with returns above the cost of The Board recognises that the globalisation of investment capital and increase our cash flow, we will continue to attract flows continues at pace with the availability of capital from a wide investor following and achieve our objective of being a international markets increasingly moving to those economies core holding for global institutional investors, as well as our and companies that demonstrate sound corporate governance individual investors.
practices and an overall commitment to sustainability.
Over the last few years we have made good progress with our The Dual Listed Companies structure under which BHP Billiton key value drivers.
operates adds complexity to our governance regime but it also provides us with the opportunity to consider and adopt those Since the merger in June 2001, our focus on creating value has practices that we consider to be the better of the prevailing resulted in BHP Billiton Limited outperforming the ASX 200 by standards, in any of their jurisdictions.
2.3 per cent and the S&P 500 by 9.4 per cent and BHP Billiton Plc outperforming the FTSE 100 by 24.4 per cent and the S&P 500 by The Board also recognises that we cannot afford to strive for 16.25 per cent.
A shareholder who invested US$1000 in BHP anything less than continued strong performance.
There is no Limited in November 1998 would now have a holding worth room for complacency given the volatile nature of the market US$2207.
Had US$1000 been invested in Billiton Plc at the same and the possibility of a crisis at any time.
time, that amount would now be worth US$2990.
I commend my Board colleagues and Chip Goodyears While we will continue to invest in the growth of the business, management team for their continued commitment to superior we also aim to increase dividends through our progressive performance and transparency, which has enabled the Company dividend policy.
to turn in a robust performance for the 2003 financial year.
We are well on the way to achieving our vision.
While there will Outlook statement always be more work to do, we have and are delivering against The global economy has struggled to generate significant growth the promises made at the time of the merger.
We continue to momentum following a series of damaging shocks over the past aspire to be not just the resources investment of choice but also few years.
Many developed economies are moving through an investment of choice regardless of industry sector.
We aspire unchartered waters as they deal with excess capacity, subdued to be one of the worlds best companies.
demand and a competitive pricing environment.
However, on balance, it appears to have turned the corner and, although the The Board and management outlook remains fragile, a number of positive developments are During the year Chip Goodyear succeeded Brian Gilbertson as supporting an improved outlook for 2004.
Chip has settled into the position extremely well and, with an outstanding executive team and first class First, monetary and fiscal policies are being aligned throughout organisation, is continuing the strategic direction outlined to the major economies, with US and European central banks the market in April 2002. reducing interest rates while Japan is working hard to provide the necessary reform framework for improving the economic climate.
Mr Cornelius Herkstrter will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the annual general meeting in November 2003.
Second, equity markets have improved over the course of the Mr Herkstrter has made a significant contribution to the Group year.
Third, corporate bond spreads have fallen in tandem with and I am sure that all shareholders join me in thanking him for government bond yields as markets become increasingly his contribution.
Finally, the situation in many emerging economies has stabilised and China continues to In February, Dr John Buchanan joined the Board as a nonprovide a bulwark for commodity markets.
Dr Buchanan was formerly an executive Director and the Group Chief Financial Officer of BP Plc.
Although the global economy faces significant headwinds, Mr Miklos Salamon, Senior Minerals Executive and President of BHP Billitons unique set of assets, value-focused strategies, the Aluminium Customer Sector Group also joined the Board as strong balance sheet and dedicated workforce leave it well an executive Director.
placed to prosper over the coming year.
The Board has been reduced from 17 Directors to nine nonexecutive and two executive Directors.
The Board will continue with its regular review and appraisal process aimed at assessing the appropriate mix of skills, attributes and the performance of individual Directors.
Don Argus, Chairman BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 3
