Chairmans Statement I am very pleased to report that the recovery in stock markets the top performing major stock market in 2003 and overseas around the world has resulted in both the net asset value and investors flocked back looking for bargains, especially share price rising over the past year.
The net asset value per amongst the exporters and the banks.
The increased interest share rose 13.6%, which compares very favourably with a in Japan forced an appreciation of the yen, the Central Bank 9.6% rise in the main benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index.
of Japan proving ineffective at limiting the rise.
We maintained Overseas stock markets have generally outpaced the UK in significant exposure to Europe that proved to be a volatile, but terms of performance: this has been further compounded by ultimately rewarding, market to be invested in.
Europe is rich in the weakness of sterling against most currencies other than cyclical and recovery stocks that prospered well in the second the US dollar.
I can also report another increase in dividends, half of the year.
The UK market was dull by comparison: the our 35th consecutive year of delivering a rising distribution to economy grew by 2% below its trend rate and shows little shareholders.
This years total dividend will rise by 4.0% and we sign of accelerating faster.
However the UK portfolio anticipate being able to further increase the dividend in 2004. contained an above average mixture of smaller and medium sized companies that outperformed the general market.
Over Assets the year we have switched money from the mature western It may be a clich, but it is true to say that over the past year markets, increasing the Pacific ex Japan element of the investing in equities really has been a game of two halves.
Our favoured companies are the interim stage we reported a fall in net assets of 2.1%, capitalising on Chinas growing emergence in world trade and whereas the second half of the year saw a dramatic recovery exploiting increased outsourcing from US companies.
resulting in a rise in net assets of 16.0%.
The war in Iraq proved the turning point for markets, but it was not just a Earnings and Dividends case of easing investors worst fears: a string of positive The earnings per share increased by 1.4% to 7.12p per economic news has been driving equity markets forward.
While reduced expenses and a lower management fee have helped, gross revenue was broadly flat due to lower The US policy makers have been the most active, in providing interest rates impacting interest received.
Dividend growth both fiscal and monetary stimulus in order to stop their was restrained by increased investment in lower yielding economy slipping into recession.
Negative real interest rates parts of the world and the continued, albeit at a reduced and huge tax rebates have helped to keep consumer frequency, dividend cuts in the UK.
The weakness of the US confidence buoyant.
The downside has been an dollar has also affected income from the UK portfolio.
unprecedented level of government borrowing and a ballooning Companies such as BP, HSBC and BHP Billiton now declare US budget deficit, resulting in a weaker dollar.
Currency moves their dividend in US dollars, comprising together almost a have been particularly volatile this year: the euro strengthened quarter of the FTSE All-Share Index dividend.
The year ahead by 7.6% relative to sterling, while the South African rand rose should see some improvement, as dividend growth in most by 25.3% and the Australian dollar by 15.1%.
markets is forecast at 5% or better.
The Companys gearing peaked at 16.6% in March, partly as We are proposing a final dividend of 1.83p per share, making a result of lower share prices but also due to the increased a total of 7.05p, an increase of 4.0% for the year and investment in equities.
As the market rose over the summer comfortably ahead of the current rate of inflation.
For the further investments were made, particularly in the Far East, current year we are forecasting a minimum rise in the total resulting in gearing of approximately 12% at the October dividend per share of 4.0% to 7.33p.
Over the year gearing has had a positive impact on 1.83p will be paid at the end of May, August and November the Companys net asset value.
The overall spread of with a minimum final of 1.84p payable in February 2005. investments is illustrated on page 17, together with a breakdown of our performance by region.
The European, UK, We recognise the importance of dividends to shareholders, Far Eastern and Emerging Markets portfolios all added value which is shown in the record of increasing dividends every and the overall asset allocation was also a key driver of year since 1967.
Despite a difficult period when many performance.
companies reduced or in extreme cases omitted dividends, we have continued to increase distributions without the need We remained wary of the US equity market over the year, for a transfer from the revenue reserves.
Shareholders should based upon the expensive valuation of shares and a negative be comforted that the Company has revenue reserves to help stance on the US dollar.
We kept faith with Japan which was us meet our objective to achieve regular dividend growth.
3 Chairmans Statement continued New Zealand strong government spending.
This begs the question of how In 1995 Bankers Investment Trust was listed on the New long can these levels of stimulus persist before inflationary Zealand Stock Exchange and started to pay dividends to local pressures reappear.
We feel that GDP growth will moderate investors in New Zealand dollars.
The New Zealand register from the large increase in the third quarter towards above has grown rapidly and now accounts for around 4% of our trend growth through 2004.
Inflation should slowly pick up shares in issue.
We are very grateful for this support from due partly to the weakness of the US dollar.
However, the US New Zealand and hope that the Companys attractions gather Federal Reserve has clearly indicated that interest rates will more investors.
We are examining ways of improving the be kept low for longer in order to firmly establish growth and service to New Zealand shareholders: our portfolio manager job creation.
A supportive US economy should set the tone has made his first, of what will hopefully be regular, marketing for global stock markets given its scale and consumption of trips to New Zealand and the appointment of First NZ Capital the worlds goods and services.
Securities as our local broker, is an indication of our Valuations are undoubtedly less attractive now that stock commitment to this market.
The average US stock is trading on a P E ratio of 18x, which compares with 12 to 13x for UK The Board, Buy-Backs and AGM and European stocks.
Also stock market indices in the US Richard Killingbeck was appointed to the Board on 19 such as Value Line, which weight each company equally, December 2003 and consequently will be seeking election at indicate that the US market is hitting new highs: therefore the Annual General Meeting in February 2004.
He has a much of the recovery and maybe more is already factored wealth of experience in financial markets and investment into prices.
Prospects for mainland Europe could prove to be management.
I will be coming up for re-election at the AGM, the most appealing, especially at such an early stage in its as will Richard Brewster.
Although my enthusiasm for recovery.
Elsewhere, the UK is cheap on a valuation basis Bankers remains undiminished it is my wish to remain a and should deliver solid performance.
Japan and the Far East director for one more year and then retire from the Board at should continue to attract overseas investors seeking the the AGM in February 2005.
Richard Brewster has been heady mix of recovery and explosive growth respectively.
appointed Deputy Chairman and it is the Boards intention he should succeed me as Chairman.
He has a long experience It would be imprudent of me to say that the stock market of Bankers, commerce and the City.
I have every confidence outlook is without risk.
Geopolitical risk is not so dominant in in him as my successor and in his commitment to Bankers.
investors minds as it was in the aftermath of 11 September David Thomas, who has made a valuable contribution to the 2001 and the run up to the Iraq war but it still remains a Board of Bankers since he joined us in April 2000, is also concern.
The weakness of the US dollar particularly against standing for re-election.
I very much hope you will support our the euro probably is welcome.
The question is whether the re-elections.
Our biographical details appear on page 2. trend will be gradual and manageable, helping to rebalance global demand or rapid and severe, spreading fear among We are again seeking shareholder permission to renew our investors.
However, we consider that investors have not yet authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the issued share fully bought into a sustainable global recovery with improving capital at the AGM.
I would like to remind shareholders that corporate profitability.
On balance we expect that 2004 we will only use these powers to provide a meaningful should be a favourable year to be invested in equities.
enhancement to the net asset value per share.
No shares were bought back in the year under review.
The AGM will be held at the Drapers Hall on 20 February 2004 at 12 noon.
A map showing the location appears on page 42.
Our portfolio manager, Alex Crooke, will make a presentation.
We once again look forward to welcoming as many of you as are able to attend.
Outlook The good news is that the global economic cycle has clearly turned.
The very strong economic recovery in the USA is Andrew Barker, Chairman perhaps unsurprising given interest rates as low as 1% and 6 January 2004 4
