4 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Chairmans statement mortgage portfolio acquisitions.
The main growth came from the buy-to-let market.
This is a market in which we are a leading player and one we understand well.
We also saw a significant increase in our Commercial Property lending portfolio.
Over the last three years our lending strategy, which has been very successful, has been to replace high margin traditional mortgage lending, which was redeeming across the industry at a fast rate, with a portfolio of selective secured lending.
The margins on selective lending are lower than those achieved on the old building society back book but above margins on new mainstream mortgage loans.
During this crucial transition period, our net Looking to the future we aim to maintain our interest income has remained within a narrow range.
But, given the growth in lending strong position within our chosen lending balances which we achieved this year, and markets and to test other areas of specialist assuming no abnormal economic circumstances, we expect our net interest mortgage lending.
income will once again grow in 2004, particularly in the second half.
Rod Kent Chairman Looking to the future we intend to maintain our Group profit before tax and exceptionals Dividend strong market position within our chosen declined 4% to 263.0 million and earnings per The Board is pleased to propose a final lending areas and to test other areas of specialist share fell slightly from 29.3 pence to 28.7 pence.
dividend of 11.0 pence per share for payment mortgage lending.
As a Group, we have made Nonetheless, Bradford & Bingley has had a on 7 May 2004 to shareholders on the the deliberate decision to transact only secured successful year.
If approved, lending and not to enter the higher risk, the full year dividend for 2003 would be unsecured personal lending market.
This sets us Exceptional charges, which were 32.6 million in 16.5 pence.
Future dividends will be balanced apart from many of our competitors.
As a result, Group by the capital requirements of our growing profit before tax rose 9% to 263.0 million.
Savings Basic earnings per share rose 6.4 pence 25% Our Savings business performed satisfactorily.
Of this increase, 3.6 pence Lending Balances remained stable in a difficult year, arose from the release of a taxation provision The Group continued the transformation of its which saw high levels of competition and, for for conversion costs.
main mortgage Lending business from a most of the year, a declining interest rate traditional building society mortgage book to a environment.
The turning point in interest The Group balance sheet grew strongly from portfolio of selective residential mortgages and rates last autumn should help release some of 25.4 billion to 32.2 billion, reflecting the commercial property lending.
Our loan portfolio the margin compression in the business and success of our lending business which grew 5.3 billion in the year, 3.9 billion of the we are currently refreshing our product range.
growth was organic and 1.4 billion came from 5 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Relative share price performance since flotation This changing earnings pattern reflects the Stephen Webster, Ian Cheshire and Louise Patten volatile dynamics of some of the underlying joined the Board as Non-executive Directors.
We benefit from strong market positions in many of these businesses which George Cox has taken on the role of Senior we plan to exploit in future years.
We are the Independent Director.
largest mortgage broker in the UK, the fifth largest residential estate agent and the third The Board now consists of myself as largest residential surveying firm.
Non-executive Chairman, five Non-executive Directors and five Executive Directors.
Bradford & Bingley Group performance against the FTSE 100 and the FTSE 350 Banks Index.
Our Distribution businesses delivered a mixed performance in 2003.
Overall profit contribution I would like to express my sincere thanks to Bradford & Bingley Group FTSE 350 Banks Index was substantially down.
Mortgage broking and the three Non-executive Directors who retired FTSE100 Surveying performed well throughout the year.
All of them had given many Estate Agency was hit by the sudden slow down years of service to the Company.
Diana in the Spring, but recovered in the second half, Courtney 10 years, Mark Smith 9 years and Strong growth in lending balances while investment product income was Trevor Lewis, the Vice Chairman 13 years, all billion substantially down throughout the year in line played a crucial role in the conversion of 25.9 with the rest of the market.
Bradford & Bingley into a FTSE 100 company.
20.5 19.7 18.7 Regulation People The increase in regulatory activity continues Over the last few years the Group has and we are faced with a significant number of demutualised, become a plc, entered the FTSE regulatory changes in the coming year.
The 100 and responded to significant changes in the introduction of new regulations in the markets we serve.
Change is now a way of life 02 03 00 01 mortgage market will have a particular impact.
and our staff deserve to be congratulated for their performance, as do the committed senior Treasury Increasing regulation and the corresponding management team who have led these changes.
Our Treasury team supported the strong growth growth in the compensation culture has in our Lending business by sourcing funds from become a fact of life in our business and the Outlook UK and international markets to meet the Groups task is to try to anticipate and keep Bradford & Bingley starts 2004 with good demands of our growing balance sheet.
momentum across its businesses and a major programme of regulatory change to manage.
Distribution Whilst we are supportive of proper regulation We are expecting a stable property market, Our capital intensive Lending business is in general, it comes at a cost.
The additional improving savings market and some return in complemented by a diverse range of property expenditure needed for training, new systems demand for investment products.
The benefits and financial services businesses which require and reviews of past business increased costs in of growing our selective lending book will little capital.
These related businesses include 2003 and will continue to impact the business become evident in our 2004 results, Estate Agency, Surveying and the broking of a in 2004. particularly in the second half and beyond.
wide range of mortgage, investment and insurance products.
Board Rod Kent Over the year we have made several changes Chairman These businesses contribute a small but to the Board.
Robert Dickie, Group important share of our earnings and enhance Operations Director and Ian Darby, Group the Groups return on capital.
Over the last Commercial Director were appointed as three years they have contributed between Executive Directors.
4% and 12% of Group profit before tax.
