British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Chairmans Statement In my first year as Chairman I am delighted to report a successful year in both absolute and relative terms.
The Companys net asset value per share increased by 25.6% compared to a rise in the MSCI World Index of 16.6%, while the FTSE All-Share and the Datastream Index our benchmark rose by 12.6% and 16.0% respectively.
It is particularly pleasing to report that the closing year end net asset value of 217.6p and share price of 204.5p represented new all-time highs at a time when the major indices were still down between 30% and 50% from previous peaks.
The decision to move to a highly liquid position at a time when we considered the Iain Samuel Robertson CBE Chairman markets to be over-valued and the subsequent re-investment of our liquidity at the lower levels in a selection of strongly performing stocks has enabled British Empire to show an increase in net asset value of 95% over the past 5 years compared with 6% growth in the MSCI World Index and a fall of 1% in the FTSE All-Share.
Over 3 years, British Empire has beaten the major indices by about 40% and over both A successful 3 year and 5 year periods the Company was top of out of 30 and 26 Global Growth year in both trusts respectively.
absolute and Following the reduction in our gilt edged holdings and deposits consequent upon our return to the equity markets, the revenue account has suffered as expected.
As a relative terms result, there will be no special dividend as in the past two exceptional years, but the Board is pleased to recommend an increase in the final dividend from 1.1p to 1.15p per share, an increase in the total dividend for the year of 3.3%, slightly ahead of the rate of inflation.
You will be aware that the Companys Investment Manager, Asset Value Investors Limited AVI was the subject of a change of control in September 2003 by way of a management buy-out.
As a consequence your Board has undertaken a review of the implications for the Company.
In view of the Trusts highly satisfactory results over the past 18 years, its relative and absolute performance against its peers as outlined above and the retention by AVI of the individuals responsible for that performance, the Board took the view that it would wish to continue using AVI as investment manager for your Trust.
Your Boards attention has now turned to the intended arrangements for Company Secretarial, Custody and Investment accounting.
AVI has appointed Meteora Partners whose principals include highly experienced personnel to supervise the efficient provision of these services, although the ultimate responsibility lies with AVI.
The Board through the Audit Committee will review the adequacy of provision of these services over the next year.
AVI has always been independently registered with the FSA, which has been informed of the change of ownership.
4 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 As part of the review process, the Board felt it appropriate to consider the Investment Management agreement and to decide, with advice from the Companys lawyers whether this needed to be updated.
Certain changes will be made to bring it into line with modern `best-practice.
The Board is also considering the Investment Management fee arrangements.
The present fee basis came into effect in 1985 when the Manager had no established record in the sector and the distinctive philosophy was untested over longer periods.
In setting the new fee basis, we shall take account of the distinctive style of our Manager, which is very different to that of the majority of Global Growth trusts: and the record of long term and substantial additions to Shareholder value ahead of the indices.
We are also taking independent advice on the new fee arrangement and if appropriate will make an announcement when final agreement is reached.
Shareholders will be aware that following the collapse of many split capital trusts, the FSA moved to change the listing rules to lessen the chances of any recurrence of such an event.
The first draft of the new proposals, set out in Consultation Paper 164 CP 164, would have had the effect of drastically limiting this Companys investment flexibility.
The Board decided that it must respond vigorously and I led a delegation of three Board members in two constructive meetings with senior FSA personnel, to set out the possibly unintended consequences of the draft proposal on our ability to continue what has been, in practice, an investment policy which has demonstrated significantly lower volatility than the indices.
Part of our success has been founded on investments in other trusts offering particular sectoral or geographic focus at times when we see a specific market opportunity.
Although the final version of CP164 means that our shareholder universe may be limited marginally, our investment flexibility should not be limited in any significant way provided that our investee investment trusts declare that they will not invest more than 15% in other investment trusts.
To maintain our investment flexibility the Company announced on 29 October 2003 that it does not intend to be limited to a maximum holding of 15% of our assets in other listed investment trusts.
The Board is pleased to note that in the absence of buy-backs, following the purchase of 15 million shares in the previous year, the discount narrowed from 7% to 6%, equivalent to 4.2 % with our Debentures valued at market.
We retain the option to buy back shares should the discount widen and we believe it is in the best interests of our Shareholders so to do at the time.
The Board will consider the Companys use of treasury shares and will revert to Shareholders at next years Annual General Meeting AGM for the necessary powers if this is deemed appropriate.
The Company again won a number of awards for its performance and it was particularly pleasing to win the AITC award for Best Annual Report in its category.
A sustained effort by the Managers to meet Shareholders, potential new investors, advisors and journalists, together with the continuing outperformance, helped to improve the rating.
The Board and Manager are discussing a revised marketing strategy, which will focus on increasing the demand for the Companys Shares, both from institutional sources and particularly from private investors.
Last year three new independent Directors were appointed to the Board and they have made an important contribution to our deliberations.
Sir David Kinloch retires from executive duties at Caledonia Investments in January 2004 and has indicated it is his intention to resign from the Board of British Empire at the AGM.
Sir David has made a significant contribution over many years and his wisdom and advice will be greatly missed.
Your Board proposes that John May who 5 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Chairmans Statement continued has recently been appointed an executive director of Caledonia Investments, our largest Shareholder, be appointed as a new Director following the AGM.
In view of the move to employee ownership of AVI, John Walton offered to resign his Board seat in order to avoid any possible conflict of interest.
Pledging to maintain his shareholding and his undiminished interest in the successful future of the Company, his offer was also influenced by longevity as a Director which makes him unacceptable in some corporate governance circles.
The Board believes that Johns experience, knowledge and advice play an important part in its deliberations and it is the Boards wish that he stays on as a full Director rather than attend meetings potentially acting as a `shadow Director.
His re-appointment will be put to Shareholders for approval on an annual basis.
The majority of the Board remains independent in line with codes of corporate governance but in practice all the Board takes a robustly independent view.
The transition of the management from John Walton to John Pennink has been successful.
Following his contribution in previous years, John Pennink has produced a considerable performance in his first year in sole charge and the Board congratulates him on that performance.
The Investment Managers report discusses the current state of the world economy, and its likely implications for stock markets.
Whatever the future holds, and respected opinion is sharply divided on the outlook for both economic growth and the returns from equities, the aim of this Company is to produce attractive long term absolute returns consistent with a lower than average risk profile.
Shareholders will be aware that there are times, such as during the vogue for growth and technology stocks in 1998, when returns can lag the indices, but the long term record demonstrates that the Companys philosophy and style has added considerable long term value in excess of the major indices, and whatever the market background, the Company will maintain rigorously its long standing investment approach.
As in previous years, the Directors would like to invite Shareholders to a buffet lunch following the AGM.
If you would like to attend please reply on the enclosed card.
Iain Samuel Robertson CBE Chairman 18 November 2003 6
