4 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 Barrie Cottingham Chairmans Statement It gives me great pleasure to report Shareholders in the United Kingdom, another year of excellent results for excluding the Channel Islands, will again the group, as we celebrate our be offered the opportunity to have their 40th anniversary as a listed company.
dividends reinvested in Cattles plc shares by participating in our Dividend Group profit before tax and goodwill Reinvestment Plan, as an alternative to amortisation at 122.7 million receiving the cash dividend.
represents an increase of 28.3% compared to 95.7 million reported last At this time last year, I reported that the year.
On the same basis, earnings per principal goals we had set ourselves in share increased by 16.5% to 26.37p.
our 1998 five year plan, had been successfully achieved.
The groups new After charging goodwill amortisation of five year plan was formally adopted in March 2003 and I am pleased to report 3.2 million, profit before tax increased by 27.7% to 119.5 million compared to that good progress is being made 93.6 million reported last year, with towards achieving the ambitious targets basic earnings per share increasing by we have set for ourselves during the five 15.6% to 25.38p compared to 21.95p in years ending 2007.
The excellent results for 2003 reflect the quality and strength 2002. of our senior management team and The effective rate of corporation tax has their determination to maintain the increased from 28.8% to 30.6% during groups impressive track record.
the year, mainly as a consequence of changes in the tax legislation applying to The company continues to adopt the transitional arrangements of FRS 17 profits from our re-insurance company based in the Isle of Man.
If this standard had been fully operative in 2003, the The Board is recommending an groups consolidated net assets of increased final dividend of 8.15p per 390 million would have been reduced by 18 million, reflecting the decline over share payable on 11 May 2004, recent years in equity valuations, compared to 7.00p paid last year.
This, together with the interim dividend of together with an increase in the liabilities 3.95p per share, gives a total dividend of the pension scheme.
Adoption of this for the year of 12.10p, representing an standard would not have had any material effect on reported earnings.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 5 In conjunction with our external auditors, secondary legislation and in 2006 for its application for registration by the , we are primary legislation, at the earliest.
The group is already a member of undertaking an Impact Study to identify the General Insurance Standards the issues surrounding the groups The European Credit Directive is passing Council and we are confident that the transition to International Financial slowly through the European necessary actions are in hand to ensure Reporting Standards IFRS from 2005 parliamentary process, not having successful registration with the FSA.
It is not practicable at this achieved its first reading stage by stage to assess the effect that IFRS will December 2003.
The existing European Against the background of the above have on our Financial Statements.
Parliament will be dissolved in summer developments, significant and However, the group is committed to 2004, with the new Parliament increasing senior management time providing clear and unambiguous embracing 10 additional member states.
continues to be committed to regulation, information concerning progress during Changes arising from the Directive are compliance and corporate governance the transitional stages of adoption of unlikely to take effect before 2007, requirements.
provided the process is completed prior confident that our dedicated staff at all to Spring 2005. levels will embrace this more regulated Corporate Governance matters are environment with their usual high addressed separately in the groups In common with other responsible standards of professionalism and annual Report and Financial lenders, Cattles welcomes these reviews enthusiasm.
The Board will continue to and fully supports the strengthening of review recommendations and guidance existing legislation.
We continue to On behalf of the Board, I am extremely on corporate governance as they contribute to the consultation process.
grateful to all our employees for their emerge and to comply or explain, in hard work and their invaluable line with best practice, taking into The group is involved in the sale and contribution to the continuing success account the practical considerations distribution of mortgages through of the group.
Dial4aloan and insurance products through other subsidiaries.
These We are very pleased with the groups Following the publication of the White activities will be regulated by the performance during 2003 and look Paper in December 2003, the review of Financial Services Authority FSA, with forward to further progress in 2004. the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is now effect from October 2004 and January nearing completion.
secondary legislative changes are scheduled, with a new Consumer Bill A comprehensive review of our likely to be included in the Queens operating policies and procedures is Speech in Autumn 2004.
Changes currently being undertaken, with Barrie Cottingham arising from this review are expected to assistance from external advisers, and Chairman take effect from Autumn 2004 for the group is well advanced in preparing 11 March 2004
