Chairmans Statement Performance compared with most investment trusts and with other equity The year under review was a difficult one for the UK stock savings vehicles.
The long build-up to the war in Iraq adversely affected The fall from the previous years total expense ratio of confidence and the rise in the oil price increased costs for 0.68% is due to no investment performance fee being earned consumers and businesses.
Corporate profitability continued to by the Investment Manager.
be held back by global overcapacity in many industries.
Share Savings prices also faced selling pressure from switches out of equities City of London sets out to be an attractive and straightforward into bonds by some insurance companies and pension funds.
long-term savings vehicle for private investors.
We are pleased to Overall, the FTSE All-Share total return for the year to 30 June welcome the new shareholders who elected to take City of 2003 was a negative 9.7%, but there was a significant rise London shares following the reconstruction of Henderson Geared from the lowest point which was reached on 12 March 2003.
Income & Growth Trust plc in March 2003.
Over the last year City of Londons share price total return Over the past three years the Companys share price has of exceeded that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
In addition there course been adversely affected by the general fall in the UK was an above average yield of 4.2%.
The net asset value total stock market, but, taking a ten year view, returns have been return was a negative 11.1%, which was an underperformance very positive.
With dividends reinvested, for example through a of 1.4% relative to the FTSE All-Share Index, but this has to be PEP or ISA, the total return over the ten year period from June seen against the previous years outperformance of 3.4%.
1993 would have been 94.6%, double that obtainable from a The gearing during the period when the market was falling was typical bank or building society account.
the principal reason for City of Londons underperformance relative to the FTSE All-Share Index.
We started the year under Your Board is keen to offer shareholders, and potential review with gearing of 11.5% rising to 17.1% at the market low shareholders, the widest possible opportunities to save over in March and falling back to 12.3% at the end of June.
Our the longer term and this year we have launched the City of modest level of gearing was maintained in the falling market.
With the benefit of hindsight, we should have reduced our The Board gearing exposure in anticipation of this fall.
The Board believes We are delighted that Angus Russell, Group Finance Director gearing should enhance shareholder returns over the longer of Shire Pharmaceuticals, joined the Board in July.
term and therefore going forward we intend to adopt a more Outlook proactive gearing policy whilst still limiting the maximum gearing The cuts in interest rates over the last few months in the USA, to approximately 20%.
Europe and the UK to the lowest levels for fifty years should The medium and long-term record remains good with City of help to counter deflationary forces and to stimulate economic London having outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index over growth over the next year.
Against an improved demand three, five and ten years.
background, the progress that many companies have made in cutting costs should lead to the growth in profits that is Dividends rewarding for investors.
Further encouraging signs are the pickA fourth interim dividend of 2.07p was paid on 29 August up in corporate merger and acquisition activity, evidence from 2003, making a total net dividend for the year of 8.07p.
This is surveys of improving business confidence and the abatement of an increase of 1.6% over the previous year.
life assurance companies selling equities.
Longer term, we have The Company has increased its dividend every year since concerns as to the sustainability of the growth in UK 1966 and the Board recognises the continuing importance of consumers expenditure financed by debt.
On balance, however, annual dividend growth to shareholders.
For the year to given our view of the prospects for the year ahead, the 30 June 2004, the Board is forecasting a minimum increase valuation of UK equities is attractive and therefore the of 2.6% in the Companys total net dividend to 8.28p, payable Company remains moderately geared.
at the new quarterly rate of 2.07p.
Annual General Meeting Over the years we have built up substantial revenue reserves Shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting which which, together with our increased investment income this year, will take place on Friday 17 October at 4 Broadgate, London have not only enabled us to continue our policy of increasing EC2M 2DA.
The meeting will start at 3.00 pm and will include a dividends to shareholders, but also put us in a strong position presentation from the portfolio manager.
Tea and light for the future.
Expenses The investment management fee and other non interest Simon fide Zoete expenses were around 0.45% of the Companys average 2 September 2003 assets for the year.
This is a level which is very competitive Source Association of Investment Trust Companies.
The bank building society return is the average return with interest reinvested for deposits of 25,000 and over in a representative sample of 20 UK banks and building societies, calculated by Micropal.
