Chairmans statement Our strategy is to deliver superior returns Last year I stated your boards commitment to a strategy of delivering Dividends superior returns for shareholders based on sustained growth in earnings In 2003 BOC paid a first interim dividend of 15.5p per share in February and improvements in capital efficiency.
This requires increasing the scale and a second interim dividend of 23.5p per share in August.
The total of and scope of BOC while continuously improving the efficiency and 39p was an increase of 2.6 per cent on the year before.
This year, in line productivity of capital and other resources.
with its established policy, the board again proposes a first interim dividend for 2004 of 15.5p.
Any increase will be reflected in the second interim Consistent strategy dividend announced with our half year results.
Your company reviews and tests its strategy thoroughly each year.
The requirements and expectations of shareholders are compared Corporate governance with objective analysis of what the business can and should deliver.
Your company has been at the forefront when it comes to This combination of top-down expectations with bottom-up capabilities implementing best practice in corporate governance and financial gives a rigorous framework for debate.
When Tony Isaac and his matters.
Its implementation last year of the new accounting standard management team have completed their work, the board reviews FRS19 and the full implementation of FRS17 well in advance of this being and tests it in detail.
Last year I described the forward programme for required, is an indication of an open and transparent culture.
This year in BOCs management and staff as ambitious and the board is pleased the UK we had the recommendations from the Higgs and Smith reviews with the progress being made.
that were subsequently incorporated in a modified form into a new Within the corporate strategy each line of business and the specialist Combined Code.
BOC contributed fully to the consultation phase of the businesses have their own strategies.
The clarity of direction this gives is Higgs review and I believe the end result strengthens corporate of great assistance to your board in overseeing proposed acquisitions, governance in an effective way.
Your company is substantially complying strategic moves and the general progress of efficiency initiatives.
with the revised Combined Code this year, ahead of it being required.
Last year I included two graphs looking at BOCs financial performance over the two-year period since the bid lapsed.
The same Corporate social responsibility graphs are reproduced here, updated with this years data.
The first BOC consistently takes an ethical view of its responsibilities in pursuing shows total shareholder returns relative to all FTSE100 companies to profitable business.
Leadership comes from Tony Isaac and the senior 30 September this year.
The second compares BOCs performance with management team.
BOC is also a very practical organisation, preferring its main global gases competitors.
They again show your companys strong to implement, test and refine what it does before making claims in the performance compared with other UK companies and the competitive wider world.
This year BOC developed and launched its Code of challenge presented by its global peers.
There were many existing policies, but the Code of Conduct process brought these into one programme together with new and amended policies.
The code energised the whole of the company during its development and roll out.
04 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Total shareholder return Total shareholder return since 1 October 2000 October 2000 October 2003 BOC relative to FTSE100 compared with major gases companies relative to respective local indices Percentage Percentage 60 80 70 40 60 20 50 0 40 30 -20 BOC 20 BOC relative to FTSE100 -40 FTSE100 10 Other gases companies 0 Oct-00 Oct-01 Oct-02 Oct-03 It is more important to be socially responsible than to seek out awards Thank you for social responsibility.
It happens that others have given recognition to The board would like to thank all BOCs people around the world for BOCs achievements in this area.
For instance, in the UK last year BOCs their efforts in what have been testing economic conditions.
We would environmental performance was ranked by Business in the Environment also like to thank all BOCs customers, with whom we seek a mutually in the top 25 per cent of FTSE companies participating in its survey: the prosperous future.
By recruiting, training and retaining the best employees investment community voting in Investor Relations magazine ranked BOC we will continue to deliver high standards of service to our customers.
in the top five of FTSE100 companies for the best practice of corporate This is the basis of BOCs strength and will be the means by which we will responsibility: and Gist, our logistics business, won the Motor Transport deliver the returns expected by you, our shareholders.
I thank you for your magazines environmental award.
In South Africa, Afroxs community continued support.
involvement programme is used by the United Nations as a global case study of how an employee-driven, sustainable social development programme should work.
Board of directors This year I was delighted to welcome John Bevan and Andrew Bonfield to your board.
John is chief executive of Process Gas Solutions and, Rob Margetts Chairman being an Australian, adds yet another nationality to what is an already very diverse board.
Andrew brings his financial experience and knowledge of international business to our discussions.
I would also like to congratulate two of my board colleagues who have been honoured this year: Sir Christopher ODonnell received his knighthood in the Queens birthday honours list while Dr Raj Rajagopal was awarded the Sir Eric Mensforth International Manufacturing Gold Medal by the Institution of Electrical Engineers and subsequently was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
During the year Gran Lundberg and Dick Grant stepped down from the board.
We wish them both well for the future.
Gran was replaced by Sir Christopher as senior independent director and by Julie Baddeley as chairman of the remuneration committee.
05 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
