ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:09 pm Page 2 Chairmans Statement Introduction Operating Exceptionals Code we explain in the Directors Report in It has been another tough year.
At the beginning and Exceptional charges the Annual Report why, for good reasons, of 2003 there was a general view amongst Principally as a result of the decision to dispose we are at variance with the Code in a small macro-economic commentators that the difficult of our wet coatings businesses we incurred number of respects.
Our clear focus, going market conditions that commenced in the 34.0m net exceptional and operating forward, as a Board, is to concentrate on middle of 2001 would start to abate in the exceptional charges in 2003 2002: 18.3m.
adding economic value to the Group whilst second half of 2003.
However, as in 2002, 33.5m of these charges related to goodwill continuing to be transparent and open in our the encouraging mid-year signs turned out and asset write-downs and were of a non cash communication with shareholders and the to be another false dawn.
It is anticipated that a further 5m cash investment community.
self-help initiatives that we have taken have of exceptional charges will be incurred in 2004 Employees been extensive and the benets have gone in respect of disposal and closure costs for As always we rely upon the dedication and some way to compensate for the effects of wet coatings.
professionalism of our staff which has been downward market demand, pressure on pricing Future Growth clearly demonstrated in what has been another and the increased costs particularly of medical The focus of the Board is to return the Group tough year.
The additional financial commitment insurances, depreciation and utilities.
to an organic growth path and a number of from our shareholders and the prospects for an Trading significant new outsourcing contracts have been upturn in our markets will provide them with the Aided by some acquisition growth and won and are currently being negotiated.
In opportunity to fully demonstrate their abilities.
favourable foreign exchange conversion addition, the Board have and will continue to Safety, Health and the Environment rates turnover was up by a modest amount consider appropriate bolt on acquisitions, which The industries we operate in have inherent at 448.4m 2002:440.1m.
Operating profit we believe will strengthen the Group, improve safety risks from high temperature, of 25.1m 2002: 22.4m was up 12 per cent.
our market position and increase our earning high pressure, volatile gases and chemicals.
However, despite our cost saving measures capacity.
Net acquisition costs in 2003 were We strive to provide training, equipment and our operating margins weakened and 2.2m.
The principal acquisition of 3 test procedures to manage the risks associated consequently our profit before taxation, goodwill laboratories in the Middle East has been with our businesses.
In the past year we have amortisation of 9.1m 2002: 8.7m and assimilated well and has signicantly increased enhanced the gathering of detailed safety exceptional items of 34.0m 2002: 18.3m our presence in this growing market.
The other performance data relating to incidents, fell to 32.0m 2002:38.2m.
acquisition of note was the CoatAlloy slurry frequency and severity rates of accidents and coatings business which is being relocated Heat Treatment turnover held up well in Europe established specic goals.
Environmental from Canada to an existing facility in the UK.
but was severely affected in North America, compliance is part of our good citizenship which also suffered from the adverse effects Rights Issue effort.
We now have a group of facilities of currency translation.
Materials Testing was We have taken the decision to strengthen our certied to ISO-14001 environmental standard again our most successful Strategic Business balance sheet and to give ourselves increased and are working to certify more locations.
We Unit with an improvement in both sales and financial exibility going forward.
To this end we remain committed to continuous improvement.
HIPping, particularly in the have today announced a fully underwritten Current Trading and Prospects early part of the year, experienced a further rights issue which will raise net proceeds of The results for the first two months of the year downturn in turnover and profitability.
We believe that this are in line with our expectations.
With the Metallurgical Coatings, whilst increasing issue together with the actions being taken on operating improvements that have already turnover, has not so far secured the benets wet coatings and the rationalisation measures been implemented and the actions we are from the rationalisation programme and the already implemented will signicantly taking on Wet Coatings, we are confident increased losses within this division are all strengthen Bodycotes financial position.
in the financial and trading prospects for the attributable to wet coatings which is an area of Full particulars are contained in the prospectus Group in the current year.
activity that we have concluded does not t with sent to shareholders under separate cover.
A decision Looking further ahead the Group is poised to Dividend has thus been taken to exit the wet coatings move forward as market demand recovers.
The Directors are recommending an unchanged business area in an orderly and timely fashion.
Bodycote has capable people, productive final dividend of 3.85p which maintains the facilities and the systems to deliver exceptional It is particularly pleasing to note that our efforts total dividend for the year at 6.1p and will be quality and service.
The Group will continue to reduce capital expenditure and to improve paid on 5 July 2004 to all shareholders on the to focus on higher value added work, gaining working capital continue to show benets register at the close of business on 26 March further market share and winning new and we have generated free cash of 30.3m 2004.
The new shares, the subject of the rights outsourcing contracts.
The Groups medium in the year 2002: 22.0m and our year issue, will not qualify for this final dividend.
term strategy is to deliver a pre tax return end indebtedness now stands at 210.3m Governance on capital in the mid teens.
Over the last two years Bodycote has been very proactive in reviewing and implementing changes to its board structure and governance procedures in general.
What has emerged, we believe, is a structure appropriate for Bodycote.
James Wallace In keeping with the spirit of the New Combined 9 March 2004 2 Bodycote annual report 2003
