Chairmans Review No matter which statistics one looks at, the year under review has been a dismal one for equity markets with most stock markets having fallen sharply.
The UK was no exception to this and in the year to 31 January 2003 the FTSE All-Share Index, our benchmark, recorded a negative total return of 28.9%.
Our own performance, a negative return of 30.8%, was rather worse than this.
However, in the absence of gearing, the result would have been a negative return of 25.2%, representing an outperformance of our benchmark of 5.2%.
I make this point not to excuse us for a Gearing disappointing result, but to draw attention to Over the years, your board has taken the view that the good job our manager has done on the the long term returns from equities would be such as underlying portfolio in very difficult to justify the use of borrowings to finance a circumstances.
I shall return to the subject of significant part of the portfolio, a strategy to which gearing below.
the investment trust structure is ideally suited.
Whatever the merits of this view, with the benefit of You will note that my comments on performance hindsight two things are clear.
First, the fixed rates have been confined to the NAV total return, but for of interest set on our long term borrowings at the those who would like to consider other measures a time of issue in 1986, 1989 and 1997 now appear comprehensive table of statistics is included on page uncomfortably high, making the borrowings 2 and the manager has commented on the capital expensive to service and to redeem ahead of their performance of the companys assets on page 5. term: and secondly, the scale of the fall in the stock market over the last two years has been greater than This year, we have for the first time published a anything we had envisaged as remotely likely.
complete list of our investments, which can be found Should these two observations affect our policy on on pages 33 and 34. gearing either in the immediate future or in the long term?
As far as the immediate future is concerned, Dividend the key issues are the current level of long term The proposed final dividend of 4.8p per share will interest rates which determines the return needed give a total dividend for the year of 7.0p, a rise of from our equity portfolio to make our gearing a some 3.7% on last years 6.75p.
For comparison, benefit rather than a burden and the overall headline inflation for the period was 2.9% and core valuation of equities which has a major influence inflation, which excludes the impact of changes in on the likelihood of our achieving this return.
At mortgage interest rates, was 2.7%.
The revenue per the moment, the relevant long term interest rate for share within the trust rose from 6.87p to 7.08p.
The DIGIT is some 5.9%, being the blended redemption proposed dividend is thus covered by our earnings yield on our outstanding debentures, while the and we continue to have a substantial revenue reserve overall valuation of equities is in many sectors more to draw upon should the need arise.
However, the attractive than it has been for much of the last strength of our position is attributable in part to our twenty years.
DIGITs portfolio is currently yielding policy of charging to capital some 70% of our around 4.4%, which implies that capital growth in management fee and our interest costs.
The board excess of 1.5% pa is required from it to deliver a remains satisfied that this is an appropriate total return above the current cost of borrowing.
We accounting policy at present, but will keep it under see this as readily achievable and thus consider that, review in the light of changing circumstances.
however badly the presence of gearing may have PAGE PAGE 3 3 Dunedin Income Growth Investment T Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 rust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chairmans Review served us over the past two years, it is appropriate in that DIGIT has not suffered any adverse today's market to maintain our net gearing at consequences as a result of this: the standard of around 20%, which was the level prevailing at 31 service we have received has remained consistently January 2003.
For the longer term, you may rest high and the key people providing this service have assured that we shall continue to keep the level of remained in place.
For as long as this continues and gearing under constant review and shall not hesitate appears sustainable to us, EFM will continue to to adjust our views as circumstances change.
Above command our full support.
all, we shall ensure that gearing remains within prudent limits whatever the level of the market.
Outlook With the myriad uncertainties of the Middle East, Discount hesitant progress in many of the world's leading The discount to net asset value at which the company's economies, the lurking threat of deflation in some of share price stands is an important statistic for an them and a global bear market that is already investment trust.
At the year end DIGIT's discount was among the worst in living memory, it is not hard to 12.4%, compared to 11.2% at the end of the previous find causes for concern.
However, if the discount is calculated using the that the future is a dangerous place is not a new one: market value of the debentures instead of the par it is just that the dangers appear more visible at the value, then the discount has fallen during the year moment than is sometimes the case.
The discount has been relatively time, investors have had a choice between buying stable during the year.
Our marketing efforts shares at high prices when the outlook appears described below and the renewal of our authority to comforting and buying shares at low prices when the buy in our own shares should both be a help to us in outlook appears worrying.
It is not hard to work achieving our objective of a low and stable discount.
out which strategy has produced the better returns for those with a genuine long term perspective.
Marketing We have no way of knowing how close we are to a The board works actively to stimulate demand for the market bottom, but we think that the UK economy company's shares through the manager's Investment is relatively well placed in a global context.
There Trust Initiative which helps to maintain a low level of are still plenty of strong businesses in the UK and discount to asset value.
The company's website, the shares of many of these businesses, particularly www.
com, highlights all aspects of the those with strong income-producing characteristics, company's performance and strategy.
This site are attractively valued.
We suspect that when we contains detailed information on investing in the look back on this time in the years ahead we shall shares of DIGIT in a low cost manner, either through think of it as a period of opportunity for stock regular savings or a lump sum.
Details of these market investors, especially those seeking growth in products can also be found on pages 38 and 39. income as well as capital.
Our manager has a regular programme of visits to The companys Annual General Meeting takes place financial advisers and potential investors in Edinburgh on 22 April and I look forward to throughout the country.
We continue to support seeing as many of you there as possible.
A reply card the Association of Investment Trust Companies and is enclosed for those wishing to attend.
their active campaigning to attract more retail investors to the industry.
Management Max Ward Our manager, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc EFM, Chairman has had a difficult year and attracted some unwelcome publicity.
We should like to make it clear 5 March 2003 PAGE 4 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
