01 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement bought and cancelled 78.8m shares at deregulation of NHS pharmacy licensing.
The Governments intentions are not yet The progress we are making with clear, but we expect to see at least the business is being recognised in the partial deregulation.
This would give us share price.
Over the past two years Boots a welcome opportunity to build market shares have outperformed the FTSE100 share similar to that presented by the by 31.9% and the retail sector by 6.0%.
abolition of Resale Price Maintenance on over the counter medicines in 2001, Strategy Boots is now more focused which has enabled us to increase profits than it has been for over a decade and by some 6m a year.
Pharmacy is an This is my third and last annual report a great deal leaner.
We are now able to important growth area in which we are to you.
As already announced, I am concentrate attention and investment market leader.
We are investing retiring on 15th September and handing on a single company with two core substantially in systems and in-store over to Sir Nigel Rudd, who has been our businesses: BTC and BHI.
pharmacy to maintain our predeputy chairman since December 2001.
That focus has already resulted eminence and condently expect our He takes the reins at an exciting in several strategically important pharmacists to play a growing role in time.
The past three years have seen breakthroughs.
Were investing to get primary healthcare over the coming Boots transforming itself.
It is now all our stores up to the standards our years, helping to relieve the pressure on a much simpler and more focused customers expect, weve got on-shelf overworked doctors.
business, and we are continuing to availability up to where it should be, increase the pace and improve the and weve returned to strong, People Change is always challenging effectiveness of change.
and rapid change can be very In BHI our strategy of increased uncomfortable.
The past few years Results Our growth strategy is investment in brand and product have been tough for our people and delivering the results we expected.
development has restored strong I am grateful to them for their support, Sales responded quickly to our renewed organic growth and profits grew exibility and hard work.
All levels of investment in the business, with ahead of last year.
the organisation have been affected, underlying growth of 6.0%.
As a result Our core operations are performing and there has been more change at group sales for the year, at 5,327.3m, very well and our international retail the top than almost anywhere else.
were almost unchanged on the operation is moving towards profitability In the past three years we have previous year despite a sharply reduced with its new low risk, capital light reduced our senior management team contribution from Halfords, which we business model.
from 233 to 167 over half the old sold in August 2002.
After a difficult This year we will continue to invest team has gone and 66 new members first quarter, sales have grown strongly to improve product, price and service have joined by promotion or from for three consecutive quarters.
competitiveness, and to grow the outside.
Virtually all todays board Boots The Chemists BTC had its best business.
To do this while stabilising and executive committee members Christmas for a decade and we have margins at about their present level, have been appointed since I became held or grown market share in all we will keep improving productivity chairman.
We now have a strong, counter health and beauty categories.
and cutting costs through our Getting energetic and experienced executive As we predicted last year, profits in Shape programme.
team with an average age of 44. have been impacted in the short term We have already acted to stem the After reviewing our succession plans by three factors losses from activities that look unlikely we announced in December that we a major programme of investment in to deliver satisfactory returns in the were looking for a new chief executive BTC, Boots Healthcare International foreseeable future.
We are closing our to drive the pace of change faster.
In BHI, and reducing costs for the future 12 Wellbeing Services Centres and the May we announced that Richard Baker the sale of Halfords which resulted in six Pure Beauty stores while continuing would be joining us as chief executive an exceptional loss of 123.2m, and with Boots Opticians, LASIK, Dentalcare from 15th September: Steve Russell increased pension costs.
We are slimming down stepped down at the end of May our international retail operations in and I have taken on the role of chief Shareholder returns The proposed Europe and simplifying them in South executive until Richard arrives.
final dividend of 20.2p per share makes East Asia.
We are enormously grateful to Steve a total for the year of 28.6p up 4.4% Our passion for innovation in for all he has done for the company in on last year.
products and brands remains as strong a distinguished 36-year career.
In Boots is a strongly cash generative as ever.
Our ability to develop powerful particular, we thank him for his work business and the Halfords sale brought own brand and exclusive ranges sets over the past three years in simplifying us an additional 396.0m.
As promised, us apart from competitors and gives the business he inherited, which had we have been returning this extra cash customers compelling reasons to see become too complex, refocusing it on to investors through share buy backs, Boots as the place for health and beauty.
its core strengths and restoring the in addition to the earlier buy back momentum of sales growth.
programme completed in September Pharmacy In January the Ofce of Fair Richard has an outstanding track 2002.
During the financial year we Trading recommended proposals for full record in both retail and marketing, and Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 02 Chairmans statement we are very pleased to welcome him Responsibility Index, have helped us to to Boots.
He joins us from Asda, develop new CSR processes and thinking.
where he has held a number of senior Further details of our achievements appointments including group and plans are set out in our dedicated marketing director and, latterly, chief CSR Review.
This demonstrates that Boots operating officer.
Previously to this he is determined to live up to its proud worked at Mars.
I believe that with social heritage and the trust customers Sir Nigel as chairman and Richard as place in the Boots name.
chief executive we have an excellent combination of skills to lead our strong Outlook Boots has got back to its new executive team.
Were recognising the Fiona Harrison resigned from the importance of our store managers and board in November due to ill health.
staff, and engaging them in the drive During her time on the Boots board to create an outstanding retail offering.
she made a distinctive and valuable We have begun a review to simplify and contribution, most recently as chairman further improve our still over-complex of our Social Responsibilities Committee.
Weve consolidated our We will all miss her deep interest in, position as the place for health and beauty.
and knowledge of, our customers and And internationally, BHI is making its employees, and her understanding of presence felt increasingly in the consumer the business climate in which we operate.
We have a robust Ken Piggott retired from the board business model, a strong balance sheet at the end of December, taking a new and cash ow, good growth prospects part-time role as corporate responsibility and plenty more to play for.
director, and Barry Clare left the Our new chairman and chief company at the end of January.
We are executive still have important issues to grateful to both of them for their resolve.
The store portfolio needs to be contribution to the transformation of rebalanced with a stronger edge of the business over the past few years.
We have to continue We took the opportunity to exing our pricing and promotions to strengthen the executive committee match customers expectations of value by adding Paul Stoneham, managing for money.
The challenge for our new director of BHI, and David Kneale, who marketing director is to make all our stores took on the new role of chief operating even more distinctive.
But we are in no officer, Boots Retail.
Paul had previously doubt that vigorous growth in the health been president of Alberto Culver and beauty markets will give us ample International and held a variety of opportunity to grow the core business.
senior marketing positions at Procter & Our ambition is to strengthen our market Gamble.
David rejoins the Company leadership and we are investing in the after being managing director at right things to achieve this.
He brings back to the This year we will feel the benefit business exceptional trading skills and of the past years cost reductions and customs focus.
Ann Francke joined the closures.
We intend to keep sales rising executive committee as director of strongly while holding our margins strategic marketing.
She had previously steady, making last years profit dip been a vice president at Mars, and merely a pause in a continuing story general manager for skincare and of long term growth.
Corporate social responsibility CSR Boots is one of Britains most trusted brands.
The foundation for this is the companys long established community John McGrath investment programme and desire for continuous improvement in its Chairman environmental performance.
We regularly participate in a variety of benchmarking surveys and welcome the opportunity to share best practice and experience with others.
The feedback we receive is extremely valuable and helps us to shape our future plans to ensure they are consistent with the expectations of modern society.
Many reviews, such as the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, highlight the positive contribution we are making: while others, like the Business in the Community Corporate Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
