Chairmans Statement The twelve-month period to 31 March 2003 has been one of major change and challenge for the company, with the appointment of a new manager coinciding with a profound fall in the FTSE All-Share Index.
The one-off cost of realigning the portfolio following the appointment of Fidelity Investments International Fidelity as manager had a negative impact on performance as did the impact of the companys gearing in a sharply falling market.
During the period the net asset value per share fell by 42.5% capital only compared with a 32.1% decline in the FTSE All-Share Index capital only and the share price fell by 45.3%.
The board is recommending a final dividend of 8.95p per share which, if approved, will give a total distribution for the year of 13.15p per share, an increase of 3.1%.
During the same period the UKs underlying rate of inflation was 3.0%.
The Earl of Eglinton and Winton on performance.
This was offset in part by an Change of manager outperformance of 0.4% by the remainder of the Fidelity succeeded Edinburgh Fund Managers EFM portfolio during the two month period ending as manager and secretary of the company with effect 30 September 2002.
Additionally the cost of buying from 1 August 2002.
I wrote to shareholders on and selling securities in constructing the Fidelity 22 July 2002 explaining the reasons why the range of portfolio was around 9.3m 1% of the portfolio.
Fidelitys qualities had impressed the board and I Overall, in these two transitional months, the net repeated those reasons in my Review in the interim asset value fell by 4.4% relative to the benchmark.
Some shareholders may be disappointed that, as yet, there has not been a During the third period, from 1 October 2002 to dramatic turn around in the companys performance 31 March 2003, net asset value fell by 8.1% but conditions have been extremely difficult and compared to a fall of 3.7% in the FTSE All-Share these are still early days.
Meanwhile your board Index over the same period.
The effect of the believes that the reasons for appointing Fidelity are companys borrowings during this period was as valid today as they were ten months ago and it negative and accounted for almost half of the will continue to work with the manager to ensure underperformance.
that the strengths which led to its appointment will benefit the companys performance in the future.
As reported above, during the financial year as a whole the net asset value per share fell by 42.5% Performance compared to a fall in the FTSE All-Share Index of Shareholders might find it helpful to review the 32.1%.
The discount to net asset value at which the performance of the company in three distinct phases.
shares were trading at the start of the last financial The first, to 31 July 2002, when the investment year was 12.8%.
During the year it fluctuated in a management contract with EFM came to an end, the wide range, from 17.8% to 7.6%, varying according second, from 1 August 2002, when the portfolio was to market conditions as well as to supply and in transition and the third, from 1 October 2002, demand.
The end of the financial year coincided when it was fully managed by Fidelity.
with all the uncertainty and volatility surrounding During the period from 1 April to 31 July 2002, the the Iraq war and represented a near low point in portfolio was not defensively positioned for a falling markets for the financial year.
At this time the market and the net asset value fell by 5.2% relative discounts on many investment trusts opened up as to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark of this market makers attempted to discourage sellers, and 2.2% was the effect of stock and sector selection.
I the companys own shares traded at a discount of explained at the Interim stage that, on assuming the 17.1% to net asset value.
management of the company on 1 August 2002, The combination of underperformance and widening Fidelity decided to retain only 60% of the inherited discount led to the share price falling by 45.3% over portfolio.
However some of the portfolio inherited by the year some 13% worse than the benchmark Fidelity proved to be exceptionally illiquid and index.
An attribution analysis is on page 8 and a continuing to hold certain positions in a falling more detailed account of the year is given in the market had a detrimental impact, estimated at 1.5% Managers Review on pages 6 to 9.
Page 3 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chairmans Statement Gearing Dividends Like many investment trusts, the company is The board is recommending a final dividend of geared - it has borrowed money in the expectation 8.95p per share making a total dividend for the year that returns to shareholders in rising markets will be of 13.15p per share, an increase of 3.1% over the enhanced.
The board determines the companys previous year.
This recommendation is made despite maximum borrowings and the manager has a fall in the companys income.
This is due to some day-to-day discretion to decide the degree to which large dividend cuts by companies held in the these borrowings should be invested in equities or portfolio, the impact on portfolio income of the in cash.
transition and a significant fall year on year in short term interest rates.
Some of the final dividend will be Although the company has from time to time had met from the revenue reserve which has been built short-term borrowings, its gearing has derived up over many years against times, such as this, in the principally from 200 million in two Debenture economic cycle when the return on the investments stocks, which were issued when interest rates were may not be sufficient to cover the dividend to much higher than they are today, carry coupons of shareholders.
After this payment the revenue reserve 1 3 11 % and 7 % and which fall to be redeemed 2 4 will still remain in excess of one years dividend.
In conditions of board is conscious of the importance to shareholders positive market returns, such as those seen in the of the present progressive dividend policy and will 1990s, shareholders have benefited substantially.
In be keeping the generation of the requisite amount of three years of falling markets, however, borrowings, income constantly under review.
It will remain particularly at such high rates, have had a negative prepared prudently to draw further on the revenue impact on the companys performance.
Over the last reserve should that become necessary.
year as a whole, and despite Fidelity having offset part of the borrowings with cash holdings, net The final dividend will be paid on 3 July 2003 to borrowings have accounted for virtually half of the shareholders on the register at close of business on net asset value shortfall relative to the benchmark.
6 June 2003 and the shares will go ex dividend on 4 June 2003.
Early redemption of one or both of the Debenture Share buy-back programme stocks would save interest costs and the Board has During the year the company bought back and discussed this possibility thoroughly.
However, it cancelled 4.03 million shares, representing 1.63% of believes that the substantial premium to par that the issued share capital at the beginning of the year.
would have to be paid, along with the relative levels This has resulted in an increase of approximately of equity and bond markets, make this step 0.2% in the net asset value per share for the unattractive at present.
Nevertheless, the situation remaining shareholders.
will be kept under constant review.
Accounting policy The ability to buy back the companys shares for Since 1 April 2000 the policy of the company has cancellation is beneficial to all shareholders and been to allocate 70% of the management fee and accordingly a special resolution to renew the boards interest costs to capital.
Under the terms of the authority to purchase shares for cancellation will be relevant accounting standard, the board is required proposed at the forthcoming Annual General to review regularly this allocation between interest Meeting.
and capital and to adjust the policy where it believes Marketing inter alia that significant changes in long-term trends An important reason for selecting Fidelity to manage have occurred.
The board has reviewed the position the company was its acknowledged position as the and at this time it is not convinced that future industry leader in the provision of ISAs, PEPs, and expectations necessarily call for a change from the other savings solutions.
It is not to be expected that present policy.
It will, however, remain mindful of its the benefits of Fidelitys retail marketing strengths obligation to keep the matter under review.
Page 4 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chairmans Statement would be fully realised in a period of sharply I am very pleased to be able to report that the board depressed retail demand for investment products.
has unanimously elected Scott Dobbie as my Nevertheless sales of the companys shares within successor.
Scott joined the board in 1998 and since these wrapper products have been promising and 1999 has been its extremely effective senior should, over time, help reduce the size and volatility independent director.
He brings with him a wealth of of the discount to net asset value per share.
knowledge about the City, the investment industry in general and investment trusts in particular and I am The board has been very pleased with the high level confident that he will be a great success as the of promotional activity which The Edinburgh companys chairman.
Investment Trust has received since Fidelity was The way ahead appointed as manager.
This has included The recurring theme of this, my final statement, has considerable national press advertising and several been challenge and change.
The last year has been mailings promoting the company both specifically challenging for both the company and its manager.
and as part of the range of investment trusts Implementing a change of manager was anticipated managed by Fidelity.
The company has also enjoyed to be a major undertaking and one that was expected editorial in Fidelitys customer newsletters, it has a to cause upheaval, but that period of change and suite of dedicated pages on the website and it has upheaval is now behind us.
The board is fully been featured in investment trust seminars.
committed to the strategy implemented by Fidelity The board and is entirely satisfied with the way that it has Sir Gavin Laird has now reached the age of 70 and, applied its large and experienced team to issues that as required by the companys Articles of Association, have arisen since its appointment.
I am sure that the he will not be seeking re-election at the forthcoming foundations for improved long-term investment Annual General Meeting.
Sir Gavin was appointed to performance and stability have now been put in the board in 1994 and he became Chairman of the place and that, in the hands of my successor, The Audit and Management Engagement Committee in Edinburgh Investment Trust will continue to be seen 1996.
The board has benefited immeasurably from as an excellent vehicle for long-term investors in the his wise counsel and from his wide range of UK market.
experience of both the public and private sectors.
I know that I speak for all my colleagues when I thank him for his friendship and support and wish him well for the future.
Sir Gavin retired as chairman of the Audit and The Earl of Eglinton and Winton Management Engagement Committee on 19 August Chairman 2002 and was succeeded by Mr Ian Inglis.
20 May 2003 As to my own position, I have told my colleagues that I have decided to retire as chairman and from the board at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
I shall have been a member of the board for eleven years and its chairman for nine years and current thinking is that these periods of office are quite long enough.
That apart, however, I would still have reached the same decision.
All the steps necessary to implement the change of manager have been taken, the company is beginning a new chapter in its history and I believe it appropriate for that chapter to be written by a new hand.
Page 5 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
