Chairmans Statement The company continues to meet the objective of tracking the performance of the S&P Composite Index.
In the 12 months to 31 January 2003, the net asset value per share NAV fell by 34.8% to 429.74p compared to a fall of 34.9% in the index in sterling terms.
The companys share price fell by 38.7% over the year to 404.50p which represented a discount of 5.9% to the net asset value.
At the start of the financial year, the share price was standing at a premium to the net asset value of 0.2%.
Sir Angus Grossart The sharp fall in US share prices was the result of a Annual General Meeting number of factors rather than a single event.
The companys articles of association require Accounting irregularities, corporate failures, profit shareholders to vote on the continuation of the warnings and the prospect of military intervention company at every Annual General Meeting.
in Iraq created a steady flow of negative news that Accordingly, a resolution to this effect will be pushed the US equity market to its lowest level since proposed as Special Business at the Annual General 1997.
Low levels of inflation and falling bond yields Meeting to be held on Wednesday 28 May 2003.
If provided little support for equities.
For sterling this resolution is not passed, a resolution to based investors, the poor returns from US equities liquidate the company will be proposed later this were compounded by the weakness of the US dollar year.
Liquidation would result in a disposal of the against sterling, which fell from $1.41 to $1.64.
companys shares for taxation purposes and therefore shareholders should consider carefully Revenue whether they wish the company to be wound-up.
Revenue per share rose slightly from 4.88p to 4.98p There will be another opportunity to consider the and your board is recommending a final dividend of future of the company at the same time next year.
2.85p which will take the total dividends for the year to 4.85p, which is unchanged from last year.
If Since the investment objective of the company was the US dollar remains weak, against sterling, revenue revised in June 1997, the capital performance has per share in the year ahead may not be sufficient to matched that of the index to within 0.5% per cover fully the current level of dividend distributions annum.
The annualised returns for the companys to shareholders.
The company however has revenue net asset values for the period 31 July 1997 to reserves of 1.58p per share and your board will 31 January 2003 were -1.68% per annum compared utilize these reserves if required to maintain to an annualised return of -2.08% per annum for dividends to shareholders in the year ahead.
I believe that our investment performance, aided by low management and Marketing administration costs, as evidenced by the total Your board continues to promote the company expense ratio of 0.32%, underlines the attractions of through the managers marketing initiative which the index tracking approach to investors.
Your provides a series of savings schemes through which board therefore strongly recommends all savers can invest in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust in a shareholders to vote in favour of the resolution.
low cost and convenient manner.
The company contributed 126,000 to this initiative during the The directors are also seeking shareholder approval past year.
Up to date information about the to renew the authority to issue new shares for cash, company is available on the companys website on to meet investor demand provided the subscription www.
price is not below the net asset value per share.
Your PAGE PAGE 3 3 Edinburgh US T Edinburgh US Tracker T racker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 rust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chairmans Statement board also has authority to purchase the companys shares for cancellation were the shares to trade persistently on a discount in excess of the levels reached in recent years.
Special resolutions proposing an extension of these facilities will be put to shareholders in the Annual General Meeting.
The economic attractions of the US are based on the size of the market place, the mobility of labour and an entrepreneurial culture.
These factors have combined to create an environment where a large number of US companies have emerged as world leaders in many industries.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust provides shareholders with a broadly diversified portfolio which covers the top 500 listed companies in the United States of America.
Sir Angus Grossart Chairman 4 March 2003 PAGE 4 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
