Overview Chairmans Statement Results At 30 September 2003 Electras net asset value was 760p per share.
Having fallen by 8.2% in the first six months of the year, the net asset value increased in the second half and was virtually unchanged at the year end.
By comparison, the FTSE All-Share Index increased strongly following the end of the Iraq war and ended the year 12.6% higher.
During a period of rapid upturn in the stock market it is unlikely that a portfolio of mainly unquoted companies, especially in a realisation phase, will match the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index.
It is encouraging to note the 37% increase in Electras share price over the year.
Significant amounts have been invested in private equity through specialist institutional funds in recent years and there are few investment vehicles such as Electra through which smaller institutional and private investors are able to have an exposure to this distinct asset class.
Portfolio The year to 30 September 2003 was one of relatively low activity in terms of both purchases and realisations of investments.
The weaker economic outlook reported for the first half of the year continued to have an impact upon investment business for the balance of the year.
The Boards requirement to achieve maximum value for shareholders when realising investments has meant that the number of portfolio sales achieved over the last year were relatively low.
Realisations totalled 54 million over the year by comparison with 137 million for the year ended 30 September 2002.
The amount available for new investment was limited by the lower level of realisation proceeds and investment over the year amounted to 39 million compared to 116 million in the previous year.
28 million of the 39 million was invested in existing portfolio companies with 11 million invested under previous commitments to private equity funds.
Prospects for realising a number Encouragingly, most of the larger investments in the portfolio continued to make of portfolio investments over the good progress over the year particularly Baxi, Vendcrown, Safety-Kleen Europe, next twelve months have Leiner Health Products, Freightliner and Inchcape Shipping Services, which all increased as a result of improved performed ahead of budget.
Full details of these and other investments are included operating results and a more in the Investment Managers Review.
Prospects for realising a number of portfolio investments over the next twelve months have increased as a result of improved operating results and a more buoyant economic outlook.
However, the successful realisation of unquoted investments depends upon the level of interest in the bidding process from trade and financial buyers.
Portfolio sales amounting to 51 million have already been achieved since the year end.
Valuation of Investments Electras unlisted investments are valued by the Directors on a basis which is consistent with BVCA guidelines.
This year the portfolio has been valued using the new guidelines for the valuation and disclosure of venture capital portfolios which require that investments should be reported at fair value.
Details are set out on pages 14 and 15.
In the opinion of the Directors the calculation of Electras net asset value on this new basis did not result in a material impact on the valuation at 30 September 2003.
4 Electra Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Borrowing Facilities In 2001 a 350 million multi-currency banking facility was arranged to finance further returns of capital to shareholders and to provide funding for further investments.
During the year the terms of this facility were favourably improved.
As at 30 September 2003 the outstanding loan had been reduced to 193 million.
Corporate Governance The Board has established a sub-committee to consider the implications of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance which will first apply to Electra for the accounting year commencing 1 October 2004.
Re-election of Directors At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 March 2004, Mr RA Armstrong, If business confidence continues Mr MEDA Walton and Lord King of Bridgwater will retire and offer themselves to grow and realisations are for re-election.
Mr RA Armstrong is Chairman of the Audit Committee, concluded at the values currently Mr MEDA Walton undertakes additional responsibilities in relation to the projected by the Investment valuation of the portfolio and Lord King brings a wealth of experience to Board Manager, there is likely to be a discussions.
significant improvement in Electras financial position by The Future 30 September 2004.
If business confidence continues to grow and realisations are concluded at the values currently projected by the Investment Manager, there is likely to be a significant improvement in Electras financial position by 30 September 2004.
Although the timing of further realisations is difficult to predict with certainty, the Board expects to apply the bulk of future realisation proceeds to the reduction of borrowings and to fund further returns of capital to shareholders.
Consistent with existing strategy, the Boards priority is to ensure that further returns of capital to shareholders are achieved as quickly as market conditions permit.
Shareholders were advised in June 2001 that it would be the Boards intention to review Electras investment strategy in 2004.
I look forward to giving shareholders the results of this review in the months ahead.
Sir Brian Williamson Chairman 9 December 2003 Electra Investment Trust PLC 5
