Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder BP delivered sustained progress in 2003, with challenges for John Browne and his executive colleagues.
continued high oil prices leading to a strong year for the company.
Individually and collectively, they are an excellent team and enjoy This performance has enabled BP to increase its total annual our full confidence and support.
BPs growth and transformation dividend per share to 26 cents, an increase in dollar terms of led to a review during 2003 of the ways in which the group is 8.3% over 2002.
The weakening dollar sterling exchange rate controlled and how decisions are made.
We are confident that means this equates to a decrease in sterling terms of 0.8%.
this will see the realization of BP as a truly global group.
In stewarding the company for you, its owners, the board must be responsive to the evolving nature of the group, as well Corporate governance as its surrounding economic and competitive landscape.
In recent Some years ago, BP adopted an approach to governance based years, BP has grown through significant acquisitions to develop on fundamental principles that delineate the role, authority and a strong portfolio of assets and leading market positions.
It accountability of the board and the executive management of has been transformed into a major oil and gas company with the group.
We have reported to shareholders annually on this a genuinely global reach.
Today, we employ more than 103,000 topic.
These governance policies are well embedded into our people around the world.
They display tremendous knowledge culture and ensure compliance with many new regulatory and skill and have provided the means for BPs development, developments on both sides of the Atlantic.
Our approach to performance and prospects.
On behalf of the board, I would like governance and transparency is tailored to the nature of the to pay tribute to their achievements in 2003 and thank them for group and its businesses.
In our report on corporate governance the value they have created.
on pages 102-105 we have set out an explanation of why we believe our approach is both conceptually sound and right for Strategic direction BP and its shareholders.
Building on these foundations, our challenge is to realize the The board, which comprises a majority of independent potential of our portfolio in the coming years and make the most non-executive directors, works to ensure that your long-term of the strategic positions we have established by being a first interests as owners are both protected and enhanced.
We approach the future with confidence, work includes assessing the opportunities and risks confronting in the belief that the scale of our operations worldwide and the group and monitoring the controls applied to manage and the progressive introduction of new producing assets will form exploit them.
In its oversight of the group, the board recognizes the basis for both near-term performance and the generation of the need for the executive team to exercise its judgement in sustained shareholder value.
the management of the business, displaying innovation and While there were signs of renewed global economic strength entrepreneurship the qualities that have led BP to its current throughout 2003, geopolitics and energy markets remained position but without compromising our standards of probity unsettled.
The map of areas in the world with accessible raw and transparency.
materials for our business has once again been redrawn.
By its nature, the groups business brings BP into contact Of particular significance is the TNK-BP joint venture in Russia, with many different societies, people and challenges in diverse which commenced in August.
Working with the TNK-BP board, parts of the world.
Our activities are scrutinized by numerous we believe we can deliver value to the benefit of our shareholders regulatory authorities and other organizations that represent the and reinforce our position in this vital market.
interests of those who are affected by our operations.
As your Innovative transactions in newer markets and the representatives, we believe it is essential to be responsive to development of our existing operations present significant those with whom we come into contact: it is equally essential 4 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Sustained progress to discharge our overall responsibility to you as shareholders, Throughout the year the board regularly monitors the way in order to protect and enhance the long-term value of your the company manages its risks and opportunities.
We are mindful of this balance in managing our roles is supported in this process by the work of its committees.
and activities, such as when making decisions about whether to These are described in more detail in the section on the pursue opportunities in environmentally sensitive areas.
We only work of the board in governance on pages 102-105 but brief operate in such areas if we believe we can properly manage the details of three committees of particular importance to environmental and social risks according to our own standards, shareholders are given below.
Each committee comprises as well as comply with applicable laws and regulations.
solely independent non-executive directors and plays a key role in testing the decisions, processes and judgements Board changes of executive management.
Over the year, the boards focus has included its own succession and development planning.
Our corporate governance report sets out the boards approach over the coming years to refresh The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir Ian Prosser.
its membership and ensure it continues to operate effectively It is responsible for monitoring all the reporting, and efficiently.
Among the transitions ahead is the departure of accounting, control and financial aspects of Floris Maljers, who will step down at the 2004 annual general executive management activities.
During the six years Floris has been on the board he has contributed greatly to its discussions and we thank him for The Ethics and Environment Assurance Committee his contribution.
As we say goodbye to Floris, we are pleased is chaired by Dr Walter Massey.
It is responsible to welcome Antony Burgmans to the board.
He brings with for monitoring the non-financial aspects of executive him great experience of marketing matters and an important management activities.
2003 also saw the retirement of Judith Hanratty as company secretary.
Judith has been instrumental in the work of the board The Remuneration Committee is chaired since her appointment in 1994.
The rigour of our governance by Sir Robin Nicholson.
It is responsible for policies and the infrastructure that supports our work as a determining the structure of rewards for the board owe much to her endeavours.
We wish her well in group chief executive and executive directors.
