Chairmans Statement Dividend - This year, to enable shareholders through the PEP and ISA schemes to take full advantage of the tax credit available prior to 5 April 2004, your Board has decided to pay an interim dividend of 1.50 pence per share 2002: nil.
There will be no final dividend payable for the year ending 31 December 2003 2002: 1.20 pence per share.
The interim dividend will be payable on 31 Robert Walther March 2004 to shareholders on the register at close of Chairman business on 30 January 2004 ex-dividend date 28 January 2004.
Your Board believes very strongly that total I have pleasure in presenting the annual report of return income and capital is the key performance Fidelity European Values PLC for the year ended 31 indicator.
We will not therefore restrict the Investment December 2003.
Manager even if this leads to lower dividends in future.
Performance - During the first few months of 2003 global Directorate - Mr David Simpson and Mr Johan Bjrkman stockmarkets fell as the prospects of a conflict in the Middle retire by rotation and, being eligible, have offered East unnerved investors.
However as the war ended equities themselves for re-election.
Mr Simpson and Mr Bjrkman rebounded strongly, stimulated by improved investor are both valuable Board members, Mr Simpson with his sentiment, and subsequently closed the year in positive investment experience and Mr Bjrkman having a wealth territory.
During the review period, the net asset value of experience in European markets.
"Mr Simon Fraser ""NAV"" per share of the Company returned 38.2%, strongly continues to serve as a Director of the Company and I outperforming the benchmark FTSE World Europe ex UK believe that there is value in having a senior member of Index, which returned 29.0%."
With regard to performance the Companys Manager who assumes the responsibility of in the long term, the NAV per share of the Company has being a Director of the Company.
All of the other returned 594.4% since launch, significantly outperforming Directors are totally independent and this provides an the benchmark, which has returned 216.1%.
Following the amendment to the relative outperformance was due to a combination of Listing Rules, Mr Fraser will be subject to annual resuccessful stock selection by the Investment Manager and election by shareholders with effect from 2005. the portfolios gearing, which had a positive impact on the total return of the NAV.
The shares ended the year trading at Due to my tenure on the Board exceeding nine years I a discount of 9.0% to the underlying asset value per share.
will also be subject to annual re-election going forward All figures are in sterling and are on a total return basis.
A and I offer myself for such re-election.
My fellow detailed review of the performance of the portfolio is Directors have met in my absence for the purpose of provided in the Investment Managers Review.
They have taken note of the AITC Code of Corporate Governance and concluded Gearing - The Board is responsible for the level of gearing that lengthy service on the Board does not of itself in the Company and reviews it on a regular basis.
Indeed they believe that Company retained a modest amount of gearing throughout independence is potentially greater due to experience 2003 15.3% as at the year end, which enhanced the net gained from the length of tenure.
They believe that I asset value by 3.6%.
We believe that gearing will continue behave independently and wish me to continue as to benefit shareholders in the long term.
5 Chairmans Statement Chairman of the Company.
They are recommending that Appointment of Manager - Following careful I be re-elected as a Director at the forthcoming Annual consideration and discussion the members of the General Meeting.
Management Engagement Committee have resolved to affirm the continuation of the appointment of Fidelity The Board has considered the proposal for the Investments International as Manager of the Company as re-election of each of the above-named Directors and in their opinion this is in the interests of the shareholders recommends to shareholders that they vote in favour of as a whole.
The performance of the Company has the proposals.
continued to be very good over both the short and the long term.
Fidelity Investments International also provides Any proposal for a new Director is considered by the a strong brand, good professional support and efficient whole Board with the independent Directors taking the management of the PEP, ISA and Share Plan schemes.
As mentioned in last years annual report Mr Simon Duckworth was appointed as a Director of the Company The Board is aware that management fees and the on 24 February 2003.
Simon has a proven track record in Companys total expense ratio are slightly higher than those private and public service.
He was elected as a Director at of its peer group.
However the Board has concluded that the Annual General Meeting in May 2003. fees at this level are acceptable as good investment Annual General Meeting - The Annual General Meeting of performance is seen as being of the utmost importance.
the Company is due to take place on 7 May 2004 at midday at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street just next to St. Pauls Cathedral.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 42 to 44 and I look forward to meeting you then.
Robert Walther 16 March 2004 Outlook - After three years of decline, Continental European equity markets posted a strong performance during 2003 returning 29.0%, as measured by the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index in local currency terms.
The economic environment in the region improved over the last six months of 2003, as did investors renewed appetite for risk.
Looking ahead the main factors expected to support the strengthening of the economy are ongoing recoveries in industrial production and consumer confidence, as well as increased domestic and business demand and interest rates remaining at a relatively low level.
Set against this, uncertainties remain in the outlook.
The terrorist attack in Spain on 11 March 2004 serves as a stark and tragic reminder of the continuing threat of global terrorism.
We continue to believe that stock selection based on in-depth company analysis is the key in outperforming the index over the coming year.
