Chairmans Statement David Ritchie CHAIRMAN There has been a welcome recovery in stockmarkets asset value performance against our benchmark.
The in the past six months.
For the year to 30th policy of backing attractive areas of the market, September we report an increase in net asset value regardless of benchmark, has been a successful one of 22.0%, which compares with a return of 15.4% and we believe that it will continue to be the right from our benchmark index.
Our share price rose by course for the future.
28.3%, as the discount narrowed from 18.7% to Gearing has also been a factor in the volatility, 14.5%.
providing benefits in strong markets such as we Six months ago, such was investor concern over the have seen in the past six months, but exacerbating weak Japanese economy and impending war in Iraq declines.
Over the course of the year, gearing that the TOPIX index had seen a run of losses increased from 107% to 112%.
Having repaid a fixed extending to 55% since its last meaningful recovery, loan in March 2003 the Companys gearing facilities itself as long ago as 2000.
The position now is are now all in short term floating rate borrowings rather different.
The stockmarket has recovered carrying interest rates of less than 1% per annum.
sharply on the back of rapidly improving domestic Outlook economic prospects, and has been supported by As long-standing investors in Japan we are acutely increased foreign buying of Japanese equities.
Much aware that there remain deep-rooted structural is also being made of the China effect, with problems in the economy that will require time and Japanese manufacturing companies being significant determination to resolve.
More immediately, the beneficiaries of Chinese growth.
Our investment strength of the yen against the dollar is a factor that managers believe that growth in China and in Asia may hinder the recovery in corporate earnings.
as a whole plays to Japans strength as an exporter Nevertheless, we take encouragement from the very of high quality capital goods and that this trend is real progress that is being made by individual set to continue.
The Investment Managers report on Japanese corporations in restructuring, improving pages 4 to 8 sets out these points in greater detail.
profitability and developing new markets, and from I am conscious that the performance of our net asset the increasing opportunities afforded through value has been volatile, not just in absolute terms growth in China and the rest of Asia.
The Japanese but by reference to our benchmark and to some of market has been a laggard for the best part of a our peers.
In the half yearly report our numbers decade.
Perhaps this period of underperformance lagged what had been a very weak stockmarket, in may be drawing to a close.
the second half of the year we recovered very strongly.
Yet, over the year as a whole performance The Board was 6.6% ahead of the benchmark index, and over I reported last year on the appointment of David the past five and ten years it has been ahead 4.6% Pearson to the Board with effect from 1st January per annum and 4.0% per annum respectively.
Further changes will be made in the course of Board has been consistent in encouraging the 2004.
After more than 21 years as a Director of the investment managers to invest in the stocks and Company, Patrick Gifford intends to retire next year, sectors that they believe attractive, regardless of the as soon as a successor has been appointed.
A composition of the benchmark index.
An inevitable recruitment process using external search consultants consequence is that there will be volatility in net Fleming Japanese 1 Chairmans Statement continued is currently under way.
Patrick is a former Chairman of year.
The Directors believe that circumstances could the Company and has been a Director since it became again arise when the mechanism would be of benefit a specialist Japanese investment trust in 1982.
It is therefore proposed that the former director of Robert Fleming, he was authority be renewed for a further period.
instrumental in setting up its Tokyo office in 1971, he Change of Company name headed the Japanese investment management team The Companys name has been The Fleming within Fleming, and he was latterly head of its Japanese Investment Trust plc since it became a investment trust business.
His contribution to this specialist trust investing in Japan in 1982.
Company has been very considerable.
Shareholders will be aware that Robert Fleming & I have been a director of the Company since 1983 Co. was acquired by Chase Manhattan Bank in 2000 and chairman since 1998.
It is my intention to retire and that it subsequently merged with JPMorgan.
at the conclusion of next years Annual General Since August 2000 our Manager has been J. P. Meeting.
Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited.
Accounts The Board has been cautious in responding to these The Board has decided to amend its practice of changes, but now believes that it is right that the charging expenses and interest costs wholly to name of the Company should be changed to reflect revenue.
With effect from 1st October 2002, these this new situation and a recommendation to this are now charged 20% to revenue and 80% to capital effect is set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 26. in line with the Boards expected long-term split of Annual General Meeting returns from dividend income and capital gains.
The The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be result is that for the first time in many years there is held at 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF on 18th a positive balance in the revenue account, but as the December 2003 at 2.00 p. m. As has been the case in revenue reserve remains in significant deficit, and it previous years, the proceedings will include a will be some years before this deficit can be presentation by the Investment Managers.
eliminated, there is no immediate prospect that the payment of dividends can be contemplated.
Please submit in writing any detailed questions which you wish to raise at the AGM to the Company Authority to Repurchase the Companys Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, Shares London EC2Y 9AQ.
Shareholders who are unable to At last years AGM, shareholders granted the attend the AGM in person are encouraged to use Directors authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of their proxy votes.
the Companys shares for cancellation.
During the After the meeting, shareholders will be able to meet year 2,010,000 shares were repurchased at a cost of the Board and representatives of JPMorgan Fleming.
2,509,000, reducing the issued share capital by 1.07%.
The effect of purchasing the Companys shares at prices at a discount to net asset value has David Ritchie been to enhance the net asset value per share and Chairman 14th November 2003 this contributed 0.2% to the relative return over the 2 Fleming Japanese... we take encouragement from the very real progress that is being made by individual Japanese corporations in restructuring, improving profitability and developing new markets, and from the increasing opportunities afforded through growth in China and the rest of Asia.
