Chairmans Statement Lord Renton of Mount Harry PC CHAIRMAN No-one likes to see their financial assets decline performance is particularly creditable in view of in value, and I regret having to report that, for the the amount of gearing that the Company has in third year running, this has been the case with place, the greater part of which was uncommitted shareholders investment in our Company.
Rising to stocks throughout the year.
This gearing will, unemployment, the perceived weakness of the however, be a major advantage when the German Chancellor and the failure of major Investment Manager, supported by the Board, Continental Governments to deal with the judges the time is right to make full use of it.
problems of labour immobility and underfunded During the year, and in subsequent months, we pensions caused persistent weakness on have continued with our policy of buying in the European bourses.
Following the recent strength Companys shares at appropriate discounts.
Full of the euro against sterling and the dollar, details are given on page 22.
We calculate that, Frances manufacturing labour costs are now 10% since we started this policy in January 1999, we higher than the UKs and Germanys are 40% have bought in 8,774,000 shares for a cost of higher.
No wonder that the European Central 46,658,333 and an increase in net asset value per Bank has called on the major European share of 14.7p.
We consider this a worthwhile Governments to be more determined in exercise from the shareholders point of view and restructuring their industry.
we will be asking for the authority to be renewed At the same time, the severe troubles of some split at the AGM.
That said, I welcome the fact that capital investment trusts cast a shadow over the statutory powers are to be given to investment whole of the UK closed-end fund industry.
trusts to buy in their shares and to hold them in Discounts widened substantially, back to the levels their treasury rather than cancel them.
Full details of five years ago, and trading volumes declined.
have still to be worked out, but this is a potentially interesting development.
It will present a challenge Against this gloomy background our Company did to the Board to decide the price and circumstances reasonably well.
It may sound perverse to say that at which such shares should be bought and then when our share price declined by 39.3% but the sold back to the market.
fact is that, on net asset value, our return beat our relevant index by 2.1% thanks to the positive It remains the Boards policy to pay out as a single effects of investment decisions.
As a consequence dividend the major part of the net earnings for the we are paying our Investment Managers a year.
The dividend that we recommend for this year performance fee for the first time since we reduced is 4.90p, and I am glad to say that this is the our base management fee in 2000.
This highest for ten years.
Fleming Continental European 1 Chairmans Statement continued There has been much discussion about the Higgs As the majority of the investment trusts managed Review and the governance of investment trusts by JPMorgan Fleming have changed their names to following the problems of the split trusts.
We take reflect the new ownership of Flemings, your Board the view that companies such as this one continue felt that it was now appropriate for the Company to to offer significant advantages and differentiation follow that example.
We expect benefits to flow from other pooled vehicles and have, overall, from this, hence we shall be putting a special weathered the storms of the last three years resolution to the forthcoming Annual General reasonably well.
In answer to the Financial Services Meeting for shareholders approval.
Authority Consultation Paper 164, we agreed with As I write this, our share price has recovered by many of the proposed listing changes but we did some 20% since our year end.
We may hope with not think direct regulatory intervention into the growing confidence that we have passed the terms of the investment management agreement bottom of the bear market.
I am sure that Mr was either appropriate or desirable.
The agreement Murison, with our Board and the Investment should be terminable at twelve months notice and Manager, will steer your Company through available for any bona fide shareholder to examine.
profitable waters in the years ahead.
I would like to mention that Hugh Twiss, after twelve years service on the Board, for which I am Lord Renton of Mount Harry PC very grateful, and I will be retiring from the Board at Chairman 12th June 2003 this years AGM.
The Board has agreed that Andrew Murison should succeed me as Chairman.
Mr Murison has a wealth of financial experience, most recently as Senior Bursar of Peterhouse and Chairman of the Investment Committee of the Cambridge Colleges Federated Pension Scheme.
2 Fleming Continental European The dividend that we recommend for this year is 4.90p, and I am glad to say that this is the highest for ten years.
