Chairmans Statement Simon Keswick CHAIRMAN This represents an increase of 2.9% over the last Performance This has been another difficult year for investors, years dividends.
with the UK equity market suffering its largest fall Viscount Younger of Leckie since 1974.
It is nevertheless disappointing to It is with great sadness that I have to report the report that the Companys total return with net death of Viscount Younger of Leckie, a Director of income reinvested was 30.2%.
This compares the Company from 1994 until as recently as with a return of 29.1% on the same basis from the December 2002.
His insight and knowledge will be Companys benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share much missed by his colleagues on the Board.
excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment trusts.
Share repurchases At last years Annual General Meeting shareholders Our cash gearing was a major factor for this gave the Directors authority to repurchase the underperformance, negatively impacting on the Companys shares for cancellation.
Although no Companys performance by 3.4%.
On an underlying such repurchases have taken place, due to the basis, the portfolio outperformed the benchmark further narrowing of the discount and the by 2.3%.
The total return to shareholders was portfolios underlying outperformance of its 25.3%, as the share price discount to net asset benchmark, the Directors continue to believe that value fell from 12.1% to 6.0%.
a strategy to reduce discount volatility of the The investment managers, in their report on pages Companys shares is important and are therefore 3 to 6, set out in more detail a review of the proposing that the authority be renewed at the underlying portfolio and an outlook for the future.
Earnings and Dividends Outlook Despite the difficult global outlook, the UK Earnings per ordinary share decreased by 14.8% for the year.
This was largely a result of a reduction economy, to which the fortunes of our universe of companies are closely linked, remains in good in income from investments, as many companies responded to the difficult market conditions by shape.
Moreover, the underlying portfolios prospective yield of 4.6% is attractive.
reducing or, in some instances, even suspending their dividend payments.
The Board believes that the investment managers emphasis on stock selection within a diversified As indicated in last years Annual Report, in order portfolio leaves the Company well placed to take to equalise the dividends more evenly during the advantage of an equity market rally.
year the first three interim dividends were increased to 4.0p per ordinary share.
The Directors have declared a fourth quarterly dividend of 6.0p which together with the three Simon Keswick quarterly dividends already paid gives a total Chairman 16th April 2003 dividend for the year of 18.0p per ordinary share.
Fleming Mercantile 1 On an underlying basis, the portfolio outperformed the benchmark by 2.3%.
