Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder, down, due mainly to the fall in the management fee in the wake of the lower average value of the portfolio over the Capital Performance course of the year.
Interest costs were similar given the The continental European stockmarkets made good largely unchanged level of gearing.
As a result of the higher progress over the year to 30 September 2003, thereby revenue and lower costs the revenue return attributable to recouping some of the losses suffered in the two previous shareholders rose markedly from 3.7m to 4.9m.
As a result, your Companys net assets per share Dividend rose from 351.8p at 30 September 2002 to 433.7p at As in the previous two years, the Board is declaring both 30 September 2003, a gain of 23.3%.
This compares an ordinary and a special dividend.
In setting the with a rise of 23.1% in the FTSE W Europe Index, amounts, the Board has had again to take account of the excluding the UK and adjusted to sterling, over the same minimum distribution it can make in order to maintain the period.
Companys investment trust status, and the risk of setting In the run-up to the war with Iraq the equity markets a precedent for next year which would be difficult to repeat remained unsettled.
The difficult political situation, mixed should expenses rise again, which they might do should economic data and the decline in the dollar all weighed on equity markets recover or gearing be increased.
The the markets, despite the cuts in interest rates by the Board is thus recommending an unchanged ordinary European Central Bank.
However, once the war was dividend of 1.7p per share in addition to a special dividend concluded the markets moved ahead again on hopes that of 4.8p per share.
The combined dividend of 6.5p per the worst of the economic and profits downturn had been share is an increase of 38.3% on the corresponding seen.
This move was supported by steadily improving amount for last year and enables shareholders to enjoy the economic and company newsflow, and activity on the full benefit of this years account without any commitment exchanges picked up noticeably.
Within the markets, the to the higher level for future years.
best performing sector over the year was technology on rising expectations of a general pick-up in economic FOREIGN & COLONIAL EUROTRUST PLC NAV VS FTSE W EUROPE EX UK IN STERLING activity.
Financials also did well on the back of better capital markets.
By contrast, the poorer performers September 1993 - September 2003 Rebased to 100 400 included the oils as the price of crude eased back after the Iraq war, as well as more defensive sectors such as 350 pharmaceuticals, consumer goods and utilities that had all performed well in the previous bear market.
300 We made a number of changes to the portfolio over 250 the year, the main objective being to increase our exposure to companies most sensitive to recovery in 200 economic and financial conditions.
However, given the continuing uncertainties we were reluctant to raise 150 significantly the level of gearing.
You will find a fuller account of developments in the portfolio in the Managers 100 Review on pages 4 to 7.
93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC NAV Revenue FTSE W Europe Ex UK - Price Index Our gross income for the year is well ahead of that of the year before.
This reflects both higher dividend pay-outs Source: Datastream from the companies in our portfolio and also the appreciation of the euro against sterling.
Expenses were Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 2 Share Buy Backs and Demand for Shares The Company bought back and cancelled 1,452,000 shares during the financial year, and a further 635,858 from the year end to date.
The Board will propose at the Annual General Meeting that powers for further purchases should be taken.
We continue to review the level of discount to net asset value at which your shares trade and believe that share buy backs can be a factor in addressing supply demand imbalances while increasing the net asset value per share.
Douglas McDougall, Chairman At the end of September, there were over two Mr Philippe Sarasin decided not to stand for rethousand individuals participating in the private investor election at the AGM.
We are very sorry to see him leave, plan on a regular monthly basis.
It is a very attractive way and I would like to thank him on behalf of the Board for all for the private investor to buy shares, and we believe it his contribution to the success of the Company during his justifies fully its cost to the Company.
We now have some time as a Director.
24,000 shareholders and the percentage of the Finally, I should like to thank our Manager, Stephen Companys share capital directly owned by the private White, and his colleagues at F&C Management for all their individuals is over 77%.
This is one of the highest levels of efforts during the past year.
individual ownership in the investment trust sector, and a feature of the Company we are keen to see continue.
AGM We hope that as many shareholders as possible will attend the Annual General Meeting which will be held on Tuesday, 16 December at 3.00 pm at the offices of Douglas McDougall November 2003 F&C Management at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY.
If you wish to attend, please return the enclosed card.
Directions on how to get there are shown on the card.
We look forward to meeting all of you who can come.
Outlook The European markets seem well supported for the time being by the steady pick-up in economic activity, positive corporate news and continuing low levels of interest rates.
The dollar, however, remains a concern, and were it to weaken further the markets could well be vulnerable.
Directors and Management I am very sorry to report that Eric Elstob died in October after a long illness.
He had served on the Board since the Companys inception in 1972 and during that time made an enormous contribution to the success of the Company.
He was also a great supporter of the investment trust industry as a whole.
