Chairmans Statement Table of Total Returns for the major markets and our own portfolio in Sterling Market % of our Our portfolio Local index % portfolio performance performance 2003 was the first year we have made you some money since 2000 and I sincerely hope we can now put the terrible UK 39.3 21.0 20.9 years of 2001 and 2002 firmly behind us.
Markets did better North America 23.7 14.8 16.4 than we expected at the start of the year and recovered Europe ex UK 23.4 27.6 29.7 strongly from their low point in the middle of March at the Japan 5.7 16.6 23.0 outbreak of the Iraq war.
We got most of the big decisions right in terms of asset allocation and gearing.
However, our Pacific ex Japan 5.3 36.1 28.7 Manager, F&C, was generally less successful in stock Latin America 2.1 44.0 53.9 selection, tending to be more cautious and defensively Other 0.5 positioned and not adjusting fast enough to changing The major disappointment in 2003 was our relative market conditions.
F&C was too cautious about 2004 has had an encouraging start with global economies the prospects for the Japanese market as a whole and did growing and corporate profits rising.
This gives me not have enough invested in the sectors and companies confidence that we should have a reasonable year ahead of that performed the best.
The UK portfolios performance us in stockmarkets around the world.
was in line with the index.
The Continental European PERFORMANCE IN 2003 portfolio produced a good return, but underperformed the All stockmarkets went up in 2003.
Our net asset value per index for the first time in several years.
US performance was share rose 20.3% to 215.2 pence, while our share price relatively better than in 2002, though still not good enough.
was up only 15.6% to 188.5 pence, because our discount The best relative performance was in the Pacific ex Japan increased during the year from 8.9% to 12.4%.
Our net region where we added to our exposure during the year.
asset value total return was 22.4% and our share price total F&C is now managing our investments in Emerging Markets return 17.9%.
including China, South Korea, Taiwan, India, Russia, Brazil The spread of our assets, particularly our relatively high and Mexico and Developed Asia Hong Kong, Singapore, exposure to Continental Europe and low exposure to the Australia and New Zealand as a single portfolio, in place of United States, was a big contributor, helped respectively by the previous separate portfolios for Pacific ex Japan, Latin the strength of the euro and the weakness of the US dollar.
America and other emerging markets.
Our gearing was also a positive influence, adding 0.5% to asset value.
We increased gearing at the start of the year as Net Asset Value total return vs Datastream markets fell which was a good move.
Later we gradually Investment Trust Global Growth Sector and Retail Price Index over 10 years switched all our short-term borrowings from yen to US dollars.
At the year end effective gearing was 8.3%.
FCIT NAV total return 250 Datastream Investment Trust Within markets, the best performing sectors and shares were Global Growth Sector 200 Retail price index generally those which had fallen the most in 2001 and 2002, including high technology stocks and smaller companies: 150 these were sectors in which your Company was not heavily 100 invested.
Our Manager's stock selection performance in each market reflected how defensively positioned each part of the portfolio was at the start of the year and how quickly it was 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 Source: Datastream adjusted to changing market conditions.
2 For Foreign & Colonial Investment T eign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC rust PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Report and Accounts 2003 The Board monitors the meaningfully on the performance of each performance of our geographical area private equity investclosely: F&C has made ments as we are only in changes to the the early stages of MARK LOVEDAY, CHAIRMAN | KENNETH CLARKE | EWEN MACPHERSON management of the US investing.
and Japanese portfolios during the last year.
The Board will DIVIDEND AND REVENUE continue to monitor performance closely, as it is conscious The Board is recommending a final dividend per share of how important performance is to our shareholders.
1.90 pence, making a total proposed dividend for the year Overall, our net asset value total return was just ahead of of 3.70 pence.
This is an increase of 5.7% on 2002, which the average for the Global Growth Investment Trust Sector is again well ahead of the rate of inflation and our peer in 2003 and against most of the larger global growth trusts group.
As I explained in the interim report, the Board our performance was better still.
We are well aware that our decided to rebalance the interim and final dividend performance over three years, particularly on a relative payments and in future we will keep the interim and final basis, is less good than shareholders and we would wish dividend amounts about the same.
We believe that and our Manager and the Board are striving hard to improve dividends are an important part of shareholders' return and this.
As always our focus remains on the long term where we intend to continue the policy of increasing annually our we have a good record and are confident our strategy will dividend in real terms.
The revenue reserve has been deliver growth in capital and income for our shareholders.
maintained at the equivalent of two years' worth of dividend PRIVATE EQUITY which gives us plenty of scope and flexibility.
I reported last year that we had committed US$120 million to Total revenue was down marginally on the previous year.
We limited partnerships managed by HarbourVest partners and have tried to keep a strict control over costs and overall 115 million to a limited partnership managed by Pantheon expenses are down.
The management fee has continued to Ventures.
During the year our private equity managers called reduce as it is based on the average value of assets under 7.3 million of our commitment: it will take several years for management over the last three years, but other expenses our commitments to be drawn down.
I also noted last year are somewhat higher owing to increases in advertising that the Board believes private equity will give higher longspend, liability insurance cover and saving scheme costs.
term returns than quoted investments, but that we do not The tax charge within the revenue account has reduced expect these investments to affect our results significantly for substantially as a result of the new Statement of a number of years.
It is therefore too early to comment Recommended Practice for investment trusts, which meant that our net revenue after tax was higher than in 2002.
Dividends per share vs Global Growth Sector and Retail Price Index over 10 years FTSE 100 INDEX 250 In March 2003 the Companys shares entered the FTSE 100 FCIT dividend per share Index which was at a time when the stockmarket was Global growth sector 200 Retail price index almost at its lowest point during the year.
It now seems likely that after one year our shares will fall out of this index.
150 Foreign & Colonial invests in a wide spread of shares, so it is not surprising that our index position tends to rise when 100 markets fall and to fall when markets rise, particularly in relation to other individual industrial, commercial and 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 financial companies.
Source: Fundamental Data Limited 3 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003 BUYBACKS AND individuals rather than TREASURY SHARES institutions.
All our Our discount increased shareholders, large and last year from 8.9% to small, are important 12.4% with an average and I welcome your JOHN RENNOCKS | SIR MICHAEL BUNBURY for the year of around comments and feedback, as it is important 10.7%.
Since the year for us to know where you have any issues or concerns.
end the discount has increased further and we have bought back 2,905,000 of our shares at an average discount of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 15.5%, enhancing net asset value per share by 0.1 pence.
We continue to take a vigilant approach to assessing risks, This is the first time we have bought back shares since early to monitoring controls, to safeguarding your assets and to 2001.
The Board regularly monitors the discount on the looking after your interests.
This year we are reporting a shares and its volatility in order to assess whether any year earlier than we need on how we are meeting the permanent trend is developing with a widening of the provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate discount, particularly on a relative basis to the Global Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Growth investment trust sector.
The Board believes that the July 2003, for which the Board was already well positioned.
main reason for buying in shares is to enhance net asset We are also complying with the changes to the Listing Rules value per share and will continue to buy in shares as published by the Financial Services Authority and adhering appropriate.
The discount is now about 12%.
to the principles and recommendations of the new Code on With regard to the recent change in company law which Corporate Governance issued by the Association of allows companies to repurchase their shares into Treasury Investment Trust Companies.
As investors ourselves we are and later reissue the shares rather than cancel them as at very conscious of the need for the highest possible present, the Board has decided to take no action at this standards of corporate governance and we do not want to stage.
We will watch what happens in practice and we impose on others any burden we will not accept ourselves.
would certainly consult widely before putting any resolution DIRECTORS to shareholders.
With regard to changes in Board and Committee SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS membership, Lord Rockley retired from the Board at the last Investment trusts are unique companies in that their AGM and I stood down from the Private Equity Committee.
shareholders are also their customers.
I am very keen to The Board has also looked closely at those Directors due develop Foreign & Colonials high standards of for re-election this year and, on the recommendation of the communicating with our shareholders who now number Nomination Committee, has approved their standing for reover 120,000.
In 2003 I initiated an institutional shareholder election.
Following an appraisal process I have no hesitation communications programme and contacted or met in recommending the re-election of Mr Clarke, Mr institutions and private client asset managers owning, or Rennocks, Sir Andrew Wood and Ms Fukuda to advising on, about one third of the Company's shares.
I also shareholders, given their experience, contribution and met several hundred shareholders at the Annual General commitment.
The Board, under the leadership of the Senior Meeting in May.
As a result of these initiatives and the AGM Independent Director, carried out an appraisal of me, as I have been able to obtain the views of a wide range of Chairman, and has approved my standing for re-election.
Despite volatile market conditions, investors in savings plans continued to add to their holdings: by the INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT year-end almost 80% of our shares were owned by The Board is responsible for corporate strategy, for the 4 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003 overall investment Global Growth sector policy of the Company, as a whole over all time for setting limits on periods.
gearing and asset PROSPECTS allocation and for MAXWELL WARD | ROBERT ADAMS | HARUKO FUKUDA | SIR ANDREW WOOD The outlook seems monitoring investment rosier than a year ago.
The Manager is responsible for gearing, asset Economic activity has picked up significantly in the US and allocation, and sector and stock selection within the limits is better than a year ago in most other major economies, set, and regularly monitored and reviewed, by the Board.
while corporate profits have also started to rise.
The threat The Board revised its gearing limits to 0 -15% during the of war in the Middle East has receded even though the year and set new ranges for its geographical asset threat from global terrorism remains.
allocation, which are now 5% on either side of the rolling There are two main areas of uncertainty which could cause monthly weightings in the UK, US and Continental Europe problems in 2004.
For a long period interest rates have and 2.5% in Japan and Emerging Markets and Developed been at exceptionally low levels, but are now rising in the Asia.
At the end of the day our Manager is responsible and UK and are likely to rise in the US later this year.
Consumer accountable for delivering investment performance.
borrowing in the UK and US is at unprecedented levels and F&C has a disclosed policy on corporate governance, it is difficult to predict what impact rising rates will have on voting, socially responsible investment and shareholder consumer spending.
The other potential source of concern activism in respect of our investee companies.
The Board is the currency market.
The recent fall of the US dollar has has reviewed and endorsed this policy and receives periodic been large, but so far benign, with little negative impact on reports on its implementation from F&C.
If the US dollar falls more sharply, or if other A new governance requirement this year is for the Board to currencies rise sharply, there could be some destabilising state publicly its reasons for re-appointing the Manager.
effects in economies and financial markets.
Reviewing all aspects of the Managers performance and We are alive to these risks, but we think the opportunities pressing for improvements when necessary has always are greater, particularly in Emerging Markets and Developed been an important job for the Board.
As I have mentioned Asia, where our Manager expects to increase the proportion earlier, our three year investment performance has been invested towards 15% and to reduce the proportion disappointing, but there has been an improvement during invested in more mature markets.
the last year and our long-term performance remains good.
Foreign & Colonial is financially strong and has been a The Manager also provides excellent company secretarial, reliable investment for many years.
Our challenge is to administrative, financial and marketing services.
In these maintain these strengths, while increasing our ability to circumstances, it is the Boards opinion that the continuing deliver better performance.
Your Board and our Manager appointment of F&C as Manager on the terms agreed is in are determined to meet this challenge in 2004 and beyond.
the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The investment objective of the Company remains the same, to secure long-term growth in capital and income through a policy of investing primarily in a diversified international portfolio of equities, with the use of gearing.
Mark Loveday Going forward, the Board has set our Manager the objective February 2004 of out-performing a peer group of the larger Global Growth investment trusts as well as beating the average of the 5 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003
