Chairmans Statement Our innovative application of technology is at the core of our success, delivering the speed and quality of service that modern business demands.
innovative application of technology to continue to be reduced with is at the core of our success, further reductions likely in the future, controlling our own costs and those although maturing with profit policies of intermediaries, as well as delivering are still achieving good real returns.
the speed and quality of service that The war in Iraq and the advent of modern business demands.
SARS both added to the pressure on the market environment.
ISIS has successfully integrated ahead The UK market has proved to be of schedule the Royal & SunAlliance too difficult for some, evidenced by investment business it purchased household-name life product providers in 2002.
This acquisition was and asset managers either withdrawing transformational for ISIS which now has entirely or from certain sectors of the the size and scale to pursue its strategic David Newbigging market.
However, many other providers ambition to be a top five UK active fund Chairman have weathered these storms which is manager by 2007.
It is well positioned a testament to the underlying resilience for further organic growth and remains of the industry.
This is good news since, alert to acquisition opportunities resulting together, UK insurers own just over from the industry consolidation which a fifth of UK quoted equities.
Figures many believe is inevitable.
released by the Association of British At the end of what otherwise had been Insurers ABI for 2002 further a very good year, we were disappointed demonstrate the importance of our Throughout 2003, the Friends Provident in December 2003 to be ned 675,000 industry to this country, paying over Group made significant progress in by our regulator for operating mortgage 5 billion to bereaved families, nearly reinforcing our position as a leading endowment complaints procedures 8 billion to those in retirement, and financial services company in the United out of line with their expectations, more than 27 billion in policy Kingdom.
The strategy we set out at the for a 16 month period which ended maturity payments.
time of our demutualisation and public in February 2003.
We realigned our listing in July 2001 remains the driving Despite the signicance of these procedures with the rules of the force behind all that we do and it gures, there is still a huge Savings Financial Services Authority FSA as continues to be relevant, despite the Gap which continues to underline soon as we became aware of this and severe market conditions that have the inadequacy of private saving today.
1 have subsequently taken all necessary prevailed over the past 2 2 years.
We The challenge remains for Government steps to ensure that none of our remain focused on operating two core to ensure that the various industry customers has been disadvantaged.
businesses: life and pensions and, reviews commissioned in 2002 create Our commitment to looking after the through ISIS, asset management.
a positive environment and a viable interests of our customers is paramount.
framework for our industry to move The pace of growth in our Life and forward.
The savings gap is a blot on Pensions business picked up further in Industry overview the national landscape that needs to be 2003.
Our strategic focus remains the 2003 was one of the most difficult addressed.
However, its very existence three product segments of protection, years in living memory for our industry.
demonstrates the tremendous potential savings and investment and group The market for new sales contracted for growth opportunities that exist for the pensions, which play to our strengths the second year running and, although long-term savings and pensions market.
We have the equity markets nished the year increased our market share in all three higher than their opening positions, they Along with other industry voices, we over the year, stemming from an increase nevertheless fell to seven year lows in continue to make representations to of 14% in new business at improved the early part of the year.
The sustained Government over the advice process margins which feed through to our stock market malaise has made it and level of price capping which will growing new business profits.
Our necessary for policyholder bonuses attach to so called stakeholder products.
2 Friends Provident We believe that access to simplied estimated 10.1% at the end of 2003, address any areas where we do not professional financial advice is a key up from 8.4% at the end of 2002. fully comply.
benefit to customers and the level of We welcome the FSAs proposed While accepting the need for such price capping must make allowance introduction of modern prudential governance reviews following the for this, as well as enabling product accounting.
The move to so called well publicised scandals and debacles providers to earn a reasonable return realistic accounting is long overdue on both sides of the Atlantic, they have on capital.
If the Government stick to and will help to bring more clarity to demanded a great deal of Boardroom their favoured 1% cap for the new the true financial position of insurance time.
It is worth noting that most highstakeholder suite of products, many prole corporate scandals stem from companies.
We still have some providers will withdraw from the market the questionable behaviour and concerns that capital requirements and the lost opportunity could seriously competence of individuals rather more will be set uncommercially high and disenfranchise the very people that than a failure of governance.
The best we remain actively engaged in the Government need to encourage to method of ensuring good governance various consultations to try to provide for their own retirement.
and high standards of integrity is to ensure appropriate levels.
embed these ideals into Boardroom The Government and regulatory focus We also applaud the FSA reacting to the behaviour and practice, which is what on our industry has been intensive and prolonged stock market falls by agreeing we seek to do in Friends Provident.
relentless over recent years and we to waivers for those companies able therefore welcome the comments of As well as taking good governance to demonstrate appropriate levels of the new Chief Executive of the FSA, seriously in our own business, we financial stability.
Friends Providents that there will be fewer Consultative actively promote it in the wider underlying financial strength was Papers to consider during 2004.
We community through the significant evidenced by the FSA solvency waivers hope that this will indeed be the case.
investments we hold in many quoted granted to us, although we decided not companies, and by using our voting to implement them in order to retain Financial strength power to bring about constructive maximum exibility in presenting our We have continued to actively manage change.
We are proud of our voting statutory balance sheet.
our balance sheet in line with our record and, for transparency, regularly business growth, both achieved and The major rating agencies have publish this record on the website aspirational, and have introduced new continued to downgrade the life www.
We also economic capital modelling to help us industry.
We have an A financial encourage you to vote on the ensure that we manage our capital strength rating stable outlook from resolutions detailed on the form effectively.
At the end of 2002 we Standard & Poors and an A2 rating accompanying this Report.
This year successfully raised 290 million stable outlook from Moodys, further we have introduced the facility for voting through a convertible bond issue.
online via the Friends Provident website A further 300 million of debt was and, as a shareholder, you are of course raised in November 2003, and this Corporate governance most welcome to attend our Annual issue attracted orders for four times During the year the new Combined General Meeting on 20 May 2004. that amount.
We were the first Code emerged from the Higgs Review insurance company to use this so of the role and effectiveness of nonCorporate responsibility called innovative tier one capital executive directors and the Smith We have a proud heritage that raising instrument, structured to take Report on Audit Committees.
We view continues to inuence the way we into account the proposed changes this new Code as a sensible outcome run our business.
During 2003 we to capital structures outlined in recent and we intend to fully comply at the developed a new Responsibility FSA Consultation Papers.
For complete section on our corporate website to capital both reduced our cost of capital transparency, we include elsewhere in communicate more widely the Groups and strengthened our Free Asset Ratio this Report details of how our current social and environmental policies and FAR a commonly used measure of practices compare with the new Code how we measure up against our own comparative financial strength to an standards and how we intend to self imposed standards.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 3 Chairmans Statement continued I should like to pay tribute to all those who work for the Friends Provident Group and who daily contribute their talents and experience to the ongoing success of this company.
An exciting development later this dividend growth policy set out in the Philip joins an excellent team that year will be the formal launch of the 2002 Statement and our intention has once again delivered a year of Friends Provident Charitable Foundation.
remains to continue to grow our growth and increasing momentum in The Foundation was conceived at the dividend going forward.
a difficult business and stock market time of our demutualisation and listing environment, while positioning both Share price performance in 2001, not only to provide a charitable our core businesses for further success.
Friends Providents share price option for those policyholders who I am also pleased to welcome Ray King increased by 11.6% over 2003, then wanted to donate their free who joined the Board as an independent exceeding the performance of the demutualisation shares but also, more director in January 2004.
Ray is currently FTSE Life Assurance sector, which rose signicantly, to be endowed with up to the Group Finance Director for BUPA, by 9.2%.
Our Total Shareholder Return 20 million of these shares remaining having previously held a number of TSR, which assumed reinvestment unclaimed after three years.
July 2004 senior financial management positions, of dividends, was 18.04% compared will mark the third anniversary of our and he has been appointed to our with 13.71% for the life assurance stock market listing at which time we Audit and Compliance Committee.
sector and 17.89% for the FTSE 100 currently expect the full 20 million Index of leading shares.
Nevertheless, to pass to the Foundation, enabling The close of our AGM on 20 May 2004 the Friends Provident share price it to become a sustainable source of will see one further change to our Board continues to trade at a discount to grants for a range of good causes.
We when Roger Morton retires after seven the Embedded Value of the Group believe its inuence for good will be years as an independent director.
Roger and this remains a challenge to the considerable in the years to come.
has been an extremely diligent nonBoard and management.
executive director who has brought Results wisdom and an independent approach Our people Our 2003 achieved operating profit to the deliberations of the Audit and I should like to pay tribute to all those before amortisation of goodwill, Compliance Committee and of the who work for the Friends Provident operating exceptional items and Board itself.
He has also played an Group and who daily contribute their tax, was 266 million.
On the industry important role as Chairman of the talents and experience to the ongoing standard Annual Premium Equivalent Committee of Reference which success of this company.
In the face of basis, total new life and pensions oversees our Stewardship and broader difficult market conditions, our people business increased more than 14% ethical range of investment products.
have risen to many challenges and they to 429 million.
Underlying margins We thank him for his service to Friends deserve our thanks.
have continued to improve, with Provident and wish him a long and contributions from new business happy retirement.
Following Martin Jacksons retirement, before tax growing by 21% to I am very pleased to welcome Philip 80 million.
Funds managed by Moore, our new Group Finance Director, ISIS exceeded 63 billion at the to the Board.
Martin will be a hard act end of 2003. to follow.
He played a significant role David Newbigging in the demutualisation of Friends Dividends Chairman Provident Life Office, our stock The Board has recommended a final market listing in 2001 and the rapid dividend of 4.9 pence per share which, development of our finance function if approved by our shareholders, would since then, for which he has our bring the total dividend for 2003 to 7.4 pence per share.
This would be covered grateful thanks and best wishes for 1.4 times by the modied statutory the future.
Philip brings a wealth of solvency earnings of 179 million and experience to the Group and it is to would represent a 2.1% increase over his credit that the transition has been the 2002 total dividend of 7.25 pence managed so seamlessly.
This is in line with the proved to be a valued colleague.
