Chairmans Statement Dennis Stevenson Chairman Value and transparency for customers has delivered good growth in profit for shareholders 2 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 As I write in early 2004, it is only too easy to In Treasury, serving the internal product needs of HBOS Treasury Services retired at the end forget that 2003 was a year heavy with of our divisions and our customers has of 2003.
His legacy to HBOS lies in the uncertainty, most obviously collapsing proved to be a very sensible focus, without creation of a successfully merged Treasury stockmarkets and the war in Iraq.
As it turned the downside of the more esoteric forays into from the best of the Halifax and Bank of out, trading conditions in many of our wholesale banking that can introduce Scotland operations.
He had one of the businesses were comparatively benign and it unwelcome earnings volatility.
toughest jobs following the merger and was another year of opportunity for HBOS.
leaves with a job well done.
In each of our businesses we have proven Value for customers and growth strategies for growth.
However, it would be The Board also loses Sir Bob Reid and Louis for shareholders wrong to pursue growth in all businesses at Sherwood at the forthcoming AGM.
Bob A strategy that delivers value and transparency all times.
So in 2004 the growth emphasis in became a Director of the Bank of Scotland in for customers has delivered good growth in HBOS will change, most obviously in Retail 1987 and has served as Deputy Governor profits for shareholders, which in 2003, rose since 1997.
As the Senior Independent where the case for greater caution is clear.
The Board has therefore Director he took to the task of appraising the Embracing regulatory change decided to recommend a final dividend of Chairman on behalf of the Board with alacrity We are not among those who rail against the 20.6p, bringing the total dividend per share to and sensitivity, the latter not of course growing tide of regulation despite our 30.9p, 5% higher than last year and in line with getting in the way of the desired feedback!
having received some 2m of fines from the the policy of increasing dividend cover to 2.5 Louis has served with equal distinction since FSA for historical inadequacies.
joining the Board of the Halifax in 1997, represents both Societys consent to our serving on the Board of Clerical Medical as For the year as a whole, HBOS shares activities and an opportunity to create Chairman and playing a key role on the HBOS outperformed their peers, even after losing advantage versus our competitors.
It is our Audit Committee.
We will miss their wise some ground in the second half as the market job to learn how to live with a huge counsel and thank them for their worried about rising interest rates.
regulatory agenda, whether from Europe, the contributions.
UK or the USA and in particular to learn from In Retail, value for money and simplicity our mistakes.
It is also, I believe, our duty to We welcome two new Non-executive remains a distinctive and compelling be as demanding of the regulator in ensuring Directors to the Board.
As former Senior proposition for customers.
Once again our high standards of regulation as they are of us.
Partner in Scotland with Deloitte & Touche, team showed just how to convert the David Shearer brings broad business and resultant market share gains into significant Through the inaugural HBOS Governance financial experience.
Kate Nealon joins us profits growth for shareholders.
Forum and extensive individual consultation, from Standard Chartered plc where latterly we have established a much more active The early achievement of our market share she acted as Senior Counsel, Risk & dialogue with investors.
Our public support goal in SME banking and the associated rapid Regulatory compliance and also brings very for the new Higgs regime has been followed rise in profits confirms our position as the relevant experience to the Board.
by early adoption in this report of the new only credible Business Banking competitor to A clear agenda combined code.
Each decision on whether to the Big 4.
In Corporate Banking credit In the following pages James Crosby and comply or explain has been determined by conditions are now improving.
Our traditional his fellow executives chart last years the sole criterion of what is in the interests of strategy, so evident in 2002 and 2003, of not performance in detail and set out a very clear the company and its shareholders.
Where we standing back from customers just as their agenda for 2004.
This will also see the Group judge it to be in our shareholders interests need and our opportunity is greatest has for us to explain rather than comply, we will reporting results through four divisions: therefore paid huge dividends.
always eschew the bland it is in the Retail, Insurance & Investment, Corporate As we extend our General Insurance shareholders interests in favour of as full and International Operations.
The expanded capabilities, in motor and household risks, and frank an explanation as possible.
Retail and Corporate Divisions will take so we become better at realising the full Business Bankings growth to the next stage In Scotland, the effects of the merger potential of a business where as a low cost with Treasury developing its capabilities continue to be very positive some 3,000 bank with a huge number of customers, we within the Corporate Division.
The new jobs have been created and the Scottish are particularly well placed to succeed.
In International Operations Division will bring economy is benefiting from one of the largest every year of the bear market, our investment together our interests in Ireland and Australia companies in the UK being managed and businesses gained market share and improved to provide a focus for future development.
After a poor start, equity markets driven from central Scotland.
This said, Your Board has confidence in this strategy to improved over the year and investor merger integration is rarely without problems deliver superior value for shareholders.
They confidence has begun to return.
At long last and the reaction of some customers, even we now can look forward with more former colleagues to our plans to restore our would be the first to acknowledge however, confidence to improving returns.
headquarters on The Mound here in that the real heroes are our 60,000 plus Edinburgh so as to create an HQ fit for the colleagues who convert strategy into results.
Last year we acquired the minority in 21st Century has taught us a lesson in And it is for their efforts, both individual and BankWest.
This enables us to optimise our communication.
We have learned from these collective, that I wish to record the Boards investments there by bringing all our Australian experiences and now move on.
interests closer together as HBOS Australia.
I particularly want to welcome our new After 27 years service with Bank of Scotland Dennis Stevenson Australian colleagues to HBOS.
and HBOS, Gordon McQueen, Chief Executive Chairman HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 3
