Chairmans Statement The Groups profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 123.7 million for the year to 31 March 2003 compared with 89.1 million for the previous year.
Shareholders funds at 31 March 2003 were 254.8 million, up 66.3 million.
This was another extremely good performance worth approximately $4.3 billion in revenue.
Two of our non-executive directors, John As we look to the year ahead, people are just from ICAP with almost all products and ICAP continued to be the global leader with Nixon and Declan Kelly, resigned from the one source of justified confidence.
We have markets providing a strong contribution a 23% share of the market, a position that board in January 2003.
Both had previously a clear business strategy.
Given our strengths to the overall result.
Markets have shown expanded during 2002 through organic been members of the Intercapital board and and the continuing development of our markets, good growth particularly those for medium growth and acquisitions of First Brokers and I would like to thank them both for their we expect to continue to grow.
The outlook term interest rate derivatives and credit.
The acquisition towards the end of the contribution to the success of ICAP.
John, for our company is very positive.
year of the majority of Nittan Capitals voice using his broad industry experience, has ICAPs total return to shareholders since broking operations in Asia has contributed taken up the role of Director of Strategy for the merger between Garban and Intercapital to ICAPs global market share.
In 2002 our shares outperformed the FTSE We have been consistent in our strategy By donating the proceeds of one days Charles Gregson 350 by 40%.
This reflects our ability to over the past several years and will remain broking revenue on 11 December 2002, Chairman produce good results in a highly competitive on the same path: growing our business ICAP raised 3.3 million for charities around environment.
both voice and electronic organically and the world.
Over the past ten years, ICAP has through acquisition.
We will continue to take raised more than 13.3 million for a variety The directors recommend a final dividend advantage of these opportunities and expect of charities and during this time we have of 23 pence per share to be paid on to see further consolidation in our sector.
been able to help many people.
I would like 29 August 2003 to shareholders on the to thank ICAPs staff and customers for their register on 1 August 2003 making total After the end of the financial year we completed enthusiasm and generosity.
dividends of 30p per share for the year.
the acquisition of several BrokerTec fixed The increase of 25% is consistent with our income securities businesses.
The initial Staff numbers have increased from 2,200 progressive approach to the dividend and consideration involved the issue of 11,989,509 to 2,800, largely as a result of the businesses our confidence in the cash generative new ICAP shares.
The majority of these we have acquired.
Competition for quality nature of the business.
shares are held by the banks and investment staff remains high but our staff turnover has banks that were shareholders in BrokerTec been very low.
I would like to thank all our Our interdealer broking business benefits from Global L. L. C. This is a significant and very staff again for the tremendous effort that significant market share and economies of welcome addition of some of our largest they have made this past year.
In those markets where we do not have customers to our shareholder base.
a prominent market share, we have formed joint venture and associate companies with appropriate partners to access liquidity.
In 2002, we estimate that the global interdealer broker market for OTC derivatives, fixed income securities, money market products, foreign exchange, energy, credit and equity derivatives increased by circa 10% to be 4 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 5 Group Chief Executive Officers Review ICAP has had another outstanding year with the business again increasing market share as well as the successful completion of a number of acquisitions.
Our turnover has grown faster than costs resulting in further improvement in our operating margins already much higher than our peers demonstrating the importance of cost control and the beneficial economies of scale.
During the past year market volumes have This acquisition was the subject of an extensive Strategy There is a natural focus on market share ICAP Senior Commercial Management been driven upwards by volatility in medium review by the US Department of Justice, The BrokerTec acquisition creates a uniquely between the interdealer brokers and, competitive and independent platform term interest rates even though official short which requested certain changes to the initial following the BrokerTec acquisition, ICAP Chief Operating Officer trading in a wide range of securities in the has a global market share of about 25%, term rates have been remarkably stable.
agreements between ICAP and BrokerTec David Gelber worlds fixed income markets.
As demand 50% more than our nearest competitor.
Additionally, considerable uncertainty as announced on 16 January 2003.
Overall Americas for electronic broking has grown, ICAPs However in many markets the brokers face in corporate credit has substantially boosted those changes are not expected to have any Ron Purpora and Doug Rhoten strategy has been to develop its capabilities another challenge, banks trading directly our credit derivatives and corporate bond material financial effect on the acquisition, by bringing together liquidity from both voice with each other.
The credit default market has which is anticipated to be broadly earnings Europe and Africa and electronic broking.
We believe that the for ICAP is to create faster, more transparent, become one of the major new product areas neutral in the year ending 31 March 2004, George MacDonald, David Casterton, strength of our business now rests firmly more efficient broking services using in the past few years and we are now firmly but earnings enhancing thereafter.
Paul McMenemy and Gary Smith upon having the optimum combination technology to constantly enlarge our available established as the number two broker.
We With daily volumes of around $200 billion, of voice and electronic broking with a hybrid Asia Pacific market and make it more economic for expect credit derivative volumes to grow steeply.
BrokerTec will become the backbone of service.
This is a very powerful proposition.
Bryan Massey and Mark Webster banks to trade through us rather than direct.
There is no question that electronic broking Another new area for the Group has been ICAPs Electronic Broking division.
We expect Electronic Broking Finally we have the issue of connectivity.
is changing the nature of our industry the emergence of an active market in inflation that there will be significant synergies with Steve McDermott, Hal Hinkle and Put simply, this is the level of integration inexorably and that the BrokerTec acquisition derivatives.
We are the leading broker in this our existing platform, ETC, as well as offering Garry Jones between ICAPs networks and systems and gives us an outstanding opportunity to new field and anticipate the development customers improved access and liquidity accelerate the development of the business our customers networks and systems.
It is over the next few years of a specialist market across a wide range of fixed income markets Information Services complex, difficult, time consuming and quite and improve returns.
ICAP continues to be a as our platforms are integrated.
During the John Barber expensive.
The further that we can extend leader in innovation and product development integration period our customers will In our opinion the consolidation in the this connectivity, the more quickly and easily in the wholesale financial markets with this continue to have uninterrupted access interdealer broking industry will continue we can deliver new products and more and several other initiatives.
to electronic broking of BrokerTec and ETC Americas After twelve months in temporary in both the voice and electronic markets.
efficient  STP products together with voice broking of all accommodation we moved our New York Although some of our competitors have The BrokerTec acquisition through this electronic pipeline.
By September 2003, using particular strengths in either voice or businesses into new headquarters in New After almost two years of negotiations our acquisition significantly improves our a combination of our technologies, we will electronic broking, none can field such Jersey in November 2002.
The rise in acquisition of BrokerTecs fixed income connectivity with our largest customers and 1 have an integrated, hybrid voice and electronic a strong combination in both.
Growth will profit in the year ended 31 March 2003 securities businesses was completed on we will combine this with our existing come from our focus on building market broking platform with proven functionality to 34.8 million from 16.1 million was 7 May 2003.
This is truly a major strategic infrastructure.
Few of our competitors have share organically and, where appropriate, and low operating costs.
We expect to the result of several factors, including: step forward that creates the right combination the appetite to invest in creating these levels through selective acquisition.
improve returns through the rationalisation of the worlds largest interdealer voice broker of integration: we have the scale and critical the restoration of our broking operations of operations including networking, removal The markets in which we operate are and the worlds leading electronic broker mass to do so.
after the loss of our World Trade Center of duplicated support costs and the becoming increasingly integrated.
Our of fixed income securities.
ICAP now has offices in 2001: Review of operations integration of technology development.
customers expect to find liquidity in each daily transaction volumes in excess of moves in medium-term interest rates 1 Overall profit from securities broking rose individual market but additionally they also $500 billion of which 40% is electronic.
which buoyed our derivatives and fixed sharply from 28.5 million to 47.2 million expect to trade across markets.
For several No competitor has a position in voice income businesses US treasuries and as the result of improvements in our margins, years customers have traded the spread and electronic broking that is comparable.
mortgages were particularly active: recovery following the loss of our offices in between products and increasingly they First Brokers, the US corporate bonds the World Trade Center, the acquisition expect to make contingent trades that business that we acquired in April 2002, of First Brokers and good underlying market depend on the alignment of prices in several exceeded expectations with a surge in activity.
In our derivatives and money broking markets before deals can be completed.
This was propelled businesses, it was another good year with We are developing and delivering technology 1 by increasing market share coupled with to make these trades possible.
ICAPs liquidity profit of 56.9 million, slightly above the a significant rise in secondary market previous year.
The Groups interest rate in a broad range of benchmark derivative activity for corporate bonds: derivative and options broking activities were and cash markets gives us a big competitive advantage and is required to deliver true very successful, but with less pronounced 1 profit before tax, interest, exceptional items but after cross market trading to customers.
growth in some of the Groups traditional charging goodwill amortisation money broking businesses.
6 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 7
