Chairmans Statement Rupert Murdoch, Chairman A year of positives Skys excellent financial results for the year clearly demonstrate that we are starting to realise the benefit of our significant investment in digital television in Britain.
Indeed throughout the last five years, Sky has always been the driving force behind making the UK the world leader in digital television, and I fully expect Sky to build on its market leadership to deliver increased financial and operational strength over the next year.
The winning formula of offering an unrivalled entertainment product combined with excellent customer service has helped Sky to win many new customers and maintain world-class levels of customer loyalty.
As a result, by the end of June 2003, Sky digital had reached over 6.8 million subscribers and succeeded in consistently outperforming its operational targets.
With the Company poised to sign up its seven millionth customer later this calendar year, the focus is now on returning to, and exceeding, the levels of profitability previously achieved in analogue.
Skys channels continue to grow in both their reach and popularity.
Real progress has been made this year towards achieving our ambition of Sky in every home.
Three of our Sky channels are now broadcast free-to-air via the digital terrestrial network that will, in due course, replace analogue broadcasting, thus completing the revolution in UK broadcasting started by Sky digital.
Sky recognises its responsibilities as a broadcaster and as one of the largest British companies.
Our commitment to the community is expressed through a host of initiatives, which are particularly focused on encouraging young people to reach their full potential.
There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year.
I would particularly like to thank Leslie Hinton and Martin Pompadur, who left the board in February 2003, for their contribution to Skys development over many years.
The new non-executive Directors who joined the board during the year were Chase Carey, James Murdoch, Jacques Nasser, Gail Rebuck, and Lord Wilson of Dinton.
Finally, I would like to thank Skys staff for their continued support.
It is their dedication to serving the needs of our customers that has ensured Skys continuing success.
11 August 2003 This years positives We continued to experience strong growth in DTH subscribers, adding 744,000 subscribers during the year Customer loyalty has remained very strong, with churn below 10% for the year For the first time, Sky has distributed its channels on free-to-air terrestrial television, with the launch of three channels on Freeview Revenues increased 15% to 3,186 million Operating profit before goodwill and exceptional items increased by 94% to 371 million Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items of 260 million
