Chairmans Statement Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 21.5p net per share to be paid on 30 May 2003 which, with the interim dividend of 9.5p per share, brings the total for the year to 31.0p net per share, an increase of 11% over last years dividend.
The dividend will be paid to shareholders on the register on 9 May 2003.
ICGs policy is to deliver continuing dividend growth subject to satisfactory core income growth, while also building up retained earnings so as to help finance the future expansion of the business.
The years dividend is covered 1.8 times by core income net of tax and 1.9 times by post tax earnings.
The loan portfolio It was a strong year for new lending, resulting in the loan book growing by 25% to 876m.
A total of 523m of new funding was provided, of which Introduction 293m was invested on ICGs balance sheet, 100m I am pleased to be able to report a strong performance was taken by fund management clients, with the by ICG in all key areas in its last financial year.
balance of 130m being syndicated to third parties.
While M&A activity has continued to decline, Of the twenty-two new loans made during the year, the buyout market has remained relatively strong, nine were in France, five in the UK, two in each of which, along with increased uncertainty in the Switzerland, the Netherlands and Sweden and one financial markets, has helped to produce an in each of Germany and South Korea.
attractive environment for mezzanine in general and Because of the weaker M&A market it was another for ICG in particular.
This has enabled us to achieve relatively quiet year for repayments which amounted high levels of new lending and consequently a very in total to 133m in respect of 13 investments.
good increase in our mezzanine loan portfolio.
The European economy further deteriorated This has, in turn, helped to produce the strong during the last year, which created more difficult growth in core income.
Capital gains have been trading conditions for some portfolio companies.
better than might have been expected in todays It is pleasing to be able to report, however, that weak financial markets and provisions have remained the majority of companies in the portfolio have at normal levels as a result of the relative robustness risen to the challenge of this more difficult and diversity of our portfolio.
business environment and continued to produce We have made a good start to our new financial satisfactory performances.
year but are now seeing some short term slowdown For a small number of companies, primarily in activity levels because of current global those which are operating in difficult cyclical sectors, uncertainty.
The current business environment is not trading has continued to suffer and appropriate without risk but we believe the year ahead should be provisions have been made.
While further economic a time of opportunity for ICG.
downturn across Europe would make life more difficult for some investee companies, we take Results comfort from the overall robustness of the For the year ending 31 January 2003 pretax profits diversied portfolio of investments in cash were 53.5m, an increase of 28% over the previous generative companies.
This increase was caused rstly by an 18% Funding increase in core income to 45.9m, resulting from a During the year we raised 90m of new medium strong growth in net interest income and transaction fees, and secondly by a higher level of capital gains term bank facilities which, together with 50m of than in the previous year.
short term facilities, resulted in having total 2 Intermediate Capital Group London Paris Hong Kong 20 Old Broad Street 38 Avenue Hoche 3603-3604 Edinburgh Tower London EC2N 1DP 75008 Paris 15 Queens Road Central Hong Kong Asia Pacific 8.1m Sweden 35.5m Denmark 37.1m Ireland 31.9m Netherlands 29.1m United Kingdom 296.1m Belgium 7.5m Germany 62.1m France 321.8m Switzerland 46.9m 3 Intermediate Capital Group Chairmans Statement continued borrowing facilities at 31 January 2003 of 813m.
started the year slowly as a result of the nervous At the year end there were outstanding borrowings markets, picked up materially in the rest of the year of 671m leaving 142m of unutilised facilities and a and nished with the total level of buyouts only gearing ratio of 3.1:1.
ICG is now in the process of slightly lower than the previous year.
The principal raising additional debt facilities to provide sufficient reason for this was that financial buyers are finance to continue to grow the loan book.
increasingly the most likely acquirors because they have large amounts of available cash.
Within this Fund management active buyout market, while the overall level of Overall funds under management grew from 1.2bn mezzanine activity was somewhat lower than in the to 1.4bn reecting the successful closing of the previous year, competitive pressures were reduced second loan fund.
and the structuring and pricing of this mezzanine Funds invested on behalf of mezzanine fund was, in our view, more attractive.
Consequently management clients increased during the year from we found a good number of attractive mezzanine 250m to 319m as a result of the high level of opportunities.
investment in the second half of the year.
The high yield bond market remained volatile Consequently, the most recent mezzanine fund is and illiquid throughout most of last year and likely to be fully invested during the course of the therefore represented an unreliable source of finance current year and the ICG Mezzanine Fund 2003 has for buyouts thus providing more mezzanine therefore been launched.
Based on the discussions opportunities in larger deals, which are becoming with a select group of prospective investors, it is increasingly common.
expected that there will be a closing of the fund in Banks are still keen to arrange total debt packages the first half of our financial year.
The target size of including mezzanine but, with a few exceptions, have e750m.
This new fund should enable us the fund is been unenthusiastic about taking any substantial to continue to grow our mezzanine fund management amounts of mezzanine on to their own balance sheet.
activity, further strengthen our position in the Many of them have also, in these nervous markets, European mezzanine market and signicantly increase been less willing to take on underwriting risk.
fund management fees in future years.
Consequently, when large amounts of mezzanine are The CDOs managed by ICG continue to operate being underwritten, it is often attractive for the bank in difficult markets, with both funds suffering from arranger to seek a significant commitment from the poor performance of the high yield market.
ICG not least because it is now able to make a larger However, for the third consecutive year they have single mezzanine investment than any other signicantly outperformed their peer group, showing mezzanine provider in the market.
While there has been more activity from the During the year a second loan fund, which invests independent funds in the past year, none of them primarily in higher yielding European bank loans, can compete with ICG either on a Pan European e350m fund is gradually was successfully raised.
This basis or in terms of size of commitment to any e450m loan fund raised investing its capital, as is the transaction.
As mezzanine is becoming a more the previous year.
The performance to date of both popular financial product one expects there to be these funds is good.
There remains the potential of continuing competitive pressures from other existing further substantial growth in these specialist fund mezzanine providers and further new entrants into management areas and we are committed to the market.
There continues to be, on some growing this activity.
occasions, competition from investment banks, who arrange and seek to place underpriced and or badly ICG and the European mezzanine market structured mezzanine.
Despite this, because of While the levels of M&A activity in 2002 geographic reach, reputation and size, our market continued to fall, the buyout market, having position remains strong.
4 Intermediate Capital Group The Asian mezzanine market markets for realisations although it is not expected After its first full years operation, we believe our to be as strong.
Hong Kong ofce has successfully established its The portfolio has held up well in a weakening reputation in the Asia Pacic region and is already economic environment.
Further economic seen as the first call for any mezzanine nancing.
deterioration will put more risk on it but we remain Relationships have been developed with the most confident of its overall strength and quality.
likely deal providers and completion of the first Success in raising the proposed new large investment was nalised in the second half of the year.
mezzanine fund should signicantly strengthen our While overall levels of activity in the region were business position in the European mezzanine market.
relatively low last year, particularly in the buyout ICG continues to be a growing business with a market, the potential for growth in mezzanine leading position in an attractive market and we look opportunities in future years appears to be good.
forward to the future with confidence.
Management and staff John Manser We have continued to grow our staff levels during Chairman the year with the most noticeable event being the 16 April 2003 recruitment of a Spanish team to develop business in the Iberian peninsula.
The quality of our people remains the greatest strength of the company and the key contributor to its success.
I would like to thank them on your behalf for their efforts.
Prospects Looking at the year ahead ICG is expecting European economies to remain weak and the financial markets uncertain.
Such an environment should produce attractive investment opportunities for us, as it has done in the last financial year.
The year has started well with three new loans completed, which have resulted in 50m being invested on the balance sheet.
In the last month there has been a slow down but once current global uncertainty caused by the Iraq war has passed, we believe that investment activity should pick up again.
It is hoped that the record of growing the loan book will continue, although probably not to the same extent as last year.
The strong growth in the loan book in the second half of last year should help to continue to increase net interest income this year, which, together with the prospect of increased fund management fees, will benefit core income.
While we have already made some good capital gains this year it is impossible to predict the 5 Intermediate Capital Group
