Annual Report 2003 7 chairmans statement - Hugh Herman Results The 2003 financial year was extremely challenging for Investec as well as for the whole investment banking industry.
Equity markets underwent considerable corrections as investor confidence was damaged by negative corporate news flow in the first half of the financial year.
Concerns about the war in Iraq and its aftermath significantly subdued sentiment towards the end of the period.
Against this backdrop, Investec reported basic earnings per share EPS before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items down by 30.2% from 139.8 pence to 97.6 pence.
Headline EPS declined by 28.3% from 126.8 pence to 90.9 pence.
Total dividends per share for the year amounted to 54.0 pence compared to 53.8 pence in 2002.
Listing in London A milestone for the group was the establishment in July 2002 of Investecs Dual Listed Companies DLC structure.
In terms of the DLC structure, Investec now has linked companies, listed on a primary basis, in London and Johannesburg.
The listing is a key step in the groups internationalisation strategy as it raises Investecs international profile and recognition as an international financial group and enhances its capital raising capabilities.
8 Annual Report 2003 Key developments During the period under review, Investec took significant steps to adjust its cost base to compensate for a decline in revenues by restructuring and rationalising many of its operations.
The US business, which was particularly vulnerable to weak equity markets, was resized over the past year.
The private client stockbroking business and the clearing division were sold and the investment banking operations were wound down.
As a result, the group now has a small presence in the US comprising fixed income trading operations and an Israeli Nasdaq equities trading desk.
Difficult trading conditions in the UK had a negative impact on the Treasury and Specialised Finance division, leading to the closure of the interest rate repo desk which was capital intensive and used significant counterparty lines.
Investec Investment Banking and Securities was also impacted by the lack of corporate advisory and capital market activity and, given the lack of visible prospects for a market recovery, the division reduced its headcount and operating costs.
In South Africa, Investec completed bedding down the Fedsure transaction, with the final disposal of the components that were surplus to its requirements and successfully integrated those areas that were relevant to its core businesses.
Substantial progress was made in developing the Australian business.
In August 2002, Investecs Australian operation was granted a banking licence that has enabled it to increase client deposits substantially and enhance its profile in Australia.
Investec has a strong culture and values system, which form the cornerstone of the groups expected behaviour towards all stakeholders.
As Investecs values play such a pivotal role, they are reviewed regularly to assess their relevance and appropriateness.
In this regard, a series of values workshops commenced across all areas of the group towards the end of the 2003 financial year, to review and perpetuate the values in the day-to-day life of Investec.
Empowerment and transformation During the past few years, Investec has been through a long process of entrenching an employment equity culture.
This has evolved into a broader debate about black economic empowerment and transformation in South Africa.
In this regard, following the financial year end, an empowerment transaction was announced in which Tiso Group, Peu Investment Group, an Entrepreneurship Development Trust and an Investec employee share trust have collectively acquired a 25.1% stake in the issued share capital of Investec Limited.
The introduction of empowerment shareholders into Investecs ownership structure addresses a key outstanding item on the groups empowerment agenda and provides a catalyst to further advance the other aspects of its empowerment strategy.
Corporate governance Over the past few years, the importance of corporate governance and increased disclosure and transparency has been placed high on the agenda of all companies.
This was intensified by the release of the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation in the US, the Higgs and Smith Review in the UK and in South Africa, the King II Report and the Myburgh Review.
These governance standards emphasise the need for increased Annual Report 2003 9 ethical awareness and greater corporate responsibility.
Investec emphasises conducting business in accordance with the best standards of corporate ethics and the board of directors is dedicated to the highest level of integrity.
Sustainability During 2002, Investec published its first separate sustainability report as an initial introduction into the groups philosophy on transformation and sustainable development.
This was given further impetus by various international developments, such as the World Summit on Sustainable Development held in Johannesburg in September 2002, the publication of the King II Report and the Global Reporting Initiative measurement framework.
Methods of reporting on the social aspects of a companys performance, however, are relatively fragmented and there is currently no single accepted global standard.
During the year, a Sustainability Task Team was appointed to drive the process and to ensure that Investecs journey to sustainability is meaningful and achieves its objectives.
The groups second report on its sustainability process, which reinforces its commitment, is published in a handout accompanying this Annual Report.
Management and staff The collective problems of the past year have demanded hard work, commitment and endless drive on behaIf of all our people.
In this regard, I would like to express my sincerest appreciation to the Chief Executive and Managing Director whose steadfast leadership and decisive guidance have enabled the group to withstand many challenges.
Furthermore, I extend my thanks to all our directors for their loyalty and commitment to the groups efforts and acknowledge them for their firm support and guidance.
Investecs has always focused on employing the highest calibre individuals, who display integrity, intellect and innovation.
I thank each and every employee for their relentless energy and unwavering efforts which have made a vital contribution towards steering the group through a very difficult year.
Our business depends on good relationships with our clients and their needs are at the heart of our business philosophy and actions.
I appreciate the support of our customers in the past year and we will continue to strive to deliver the best possible service.
Our people have once again shown their ability to deliver value for clients and shareholders in demanding times.
It is this dedication, drive and loyalty that give me great confidence in the groups future success.
10 Annual Report 2003 Outlook As 2003 unfolds, the global economic and political climate remains uncertain as financial markets continue their volatile trends of recent years.
Internationally, volatile capital markets continue and investor anxiety is high, maintaining the challenges of the operating environment.
A degree of cautious optimism is evident in the UK market with falling oil prices, low interest rates and reduced geopolitical uncertainties reinstating some momentum.
An upside surprise in company earnings and the gradually improving economic outlook should facilitate a recovery in equity markets and restore investor confidence.
The Rand has recovered strongly from its collapse in 2001 and South Africa continues to benefit from sound financial management with disciplined fiscal and monetary policies.
The South African Reserve Banks recent decision to cut interest rates is positive for investor sentiment and further reductions are expected in the year ahead.
Furthermore, we have confidence in the Financial Services Charters progress in pro-actively spearheading empowerment in the financial services sector.
Investec still faces challenges in the year ahead, and there is no certainty about the timing or extent of a recovery in the global markets.
However, the group is now leaner and more efficient and we believe we are well positioned to face the future through the skills of our people, our entrepreneurial spirit and the strong culture that unites our organisation.
