2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WE HAVE MAINTAINED OUR RECORD OF REVENUE AND Ken Carter PROFIT GROWTH.
I am once again pleased to report that Within Risk & Insurance, all our businesses, Dominic Burke continues as Chief Executive Jardine Lloyd Thompson has maintained its and particularly our retail operations, of the Employee Benefits Group and our UK record of year on year growth in 2003 with performed well during 2003.
There is very Ireland retail business and joined the Group profit before goodwill amortisation, good scope to develop them still further as Executive Committee on 1st January, 2004. exceptional items and taxation increasing we continue to extend our international reach 11% to 113.7 million 2002: 102.3 million.
and expand in areas where we are, or can Pensions Profit before tax has increased from 100.7 become, a significant force.
In Employee The disclosures required by FRS 17 in million to 111.0 million, an increase of 10%.
Benefits, we continue to develop our services relation to the Group's defined benefit to the UK pension market and see schemes are included within note 32 on Turnover grew 10% to 429.0 million 2002: considerable potential to grow this business, page 70 in the attached financial statements.
388.6 million and the Group's trading profit - particularly in the outsourced administration These show, inter alia, a deficit in respect of turnover less expenses and excluding goodwill of pension schemes.
the UK scheme of 157 million which, amortisation - grew by 16% to 92.1 million after allowance for deferred tax, would 2002: 79.6 million.
In January 2004, the management structure translate into a balance sheet liability of was reorganised to facilitate the further 109.9 million.
Although these figures provide The overall performance reflects continued development of Group strategy.
In JLT Risk only a limited basis for assessing the financial organic growth across the Group and builds Solutions, John Lloyd assumed the role of adequacy or future cost to the Group of upon the growth achieved in our core Chairman whilst Dominic Collins continues funding the scheme, they do to some extent businesses in recent years.
Following the reflect the impact of more fundamental acquisition by Capital Risk of HCCs specialty influences, such as increased life expectancy Group Strategy life, accident and health insurance broking and lower anticipated real rates of investment During the year we have continued to business at the end of the year, Steve McGill return, the long term effects of which need to strengthen the business through the became Chairman of JLT USA Inc, a newly be addressed.
recruitment of individuals and teams and by formed holding company for our US-based selective acquisitions in a number of areas, as insurance and reinsurance businesses.
evidenced in particular by major recruitments He also assumed the chairmanship of JLTs in property and aviation by JLT Risk Solutions Employee Benefits Group, taking over from in London and the expansion of Capital Risk in John Hastings-Bass who continues as the United States.
Chairman of our worldwide retail broking operations with the exception of the USA.
Chairmans statement 3 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 As a result, it has been decided since Our retail operations around the world are the year end that the Group's UK defined performing extremely well.
In the USA, we benefit scheme will be closed to new entrants expect to build on the very strong foundations and that certain changes will be made to the put in place in 2003.
We are actively looking to benefits that will accrue to existing members in enter new parts of the world and this could respect of future service.
The Group has also leverage JLT's expertise and provide new and decided that such changes should be exciting opportunities for the Group.
accompanied by a special one-off contribution of 50 million to the scheme in 2004 which Our Employee Benefits business has put will have a significant and immediate impact in place a strategy to capitalise on the in reducing the existing deficit.
opportunities that their dynamic market presents.
The underlying business Our employees remain our most important performed well in 2003 and has made a asset and this response underlines our very good start in 2004.
Our goal remains commitment to our staff.
We also consider to build the business further both organically that this strikes an appropriate balance and by acquisition.
between the interests of scheme members, the Group and its shareholders.
We see excellent opportunities to continue to drive our underlying business forward by Dividends adding more skills and capabilities to the Subject to shareholder approval, a final Group, expanding our international reach and dividend of 12p per share for the year to continuing to build a diversified, yet balanced 31st December, 2003 will be paid on business over the longer term and we view the 4th May, 2004 to shareholders on the register future with confidence.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 20.5p per share, an JLT continues to pursue two key objectives - increase of 11%.
to be the broker or service provider of choice for our clients and the employer of choice for Prospects industry professionals.
Given our sensitivity to movements in the US dollar sterling exchange rate explained in detail in the Financial Review on page 23, this will be a significant factor over the next two years and, should the dollar remain at current Ken Carter, Chairman levels, it will inevitably have an impact on our 15th March, 2004 reported results.
However, JLTs underlying business remains strong and is likely to benefit from a number of initiatives now underway.
In JLT Risk Solutions, which is the area of our business that is particularly affected by the weakness of the dollar, the changing reinsurance environment will also have a negative impact on the results, particularly in the first half of 2004.
The benefits from the recent recruitment initiatives and acquisitions should become more apparent in the second half but, overall, 2004 is likely to be a year of transition as the business is repositioned.
