Chairmans Statement George Paul CHAIRMAN The Board regularly reviews investment strategy Performance and investors expectations with regard to the level Over the year under review, the worlds stock of risk in the portfolio.
A recent such review was markets again delivered a disappointing overall undertaken and your Board is satisfied with the result for investors.
The Companys benchmark level of risk being taken by the Company and produced a negative total return of 9.8% in sterling believes that the portfolio is in a good position to terms while, over the same period, the Company take advantage of further stock market gains.
delivered a negative total return of 11.6%.
Despite Whilst the relatively large proportion of the this negative overall result, global stock markets Companys assets in the US has not helped produced solid gains in the period following the performance in recent years, it is likely that US conclusion of formal hostilities in Iraq and this interest rates will remain at very low levels and, trend has continued, albeit more slowly in the with a presidential election due in 2004, various ensuing months.
expansionary fiscal measures can be expected.
This The Companys gearing was the main contributory combination is likely to boost the US economy.
factor behind the Companys underperformance versus benchmark.
The existence of the The Board is acutely aware of movements in the performance fee arrangement, together with the Companys share price performance relative to its positive influence of stock selection served to Net Asset Value NAV.
While share buybacks can offset this to a modest degree.
In order to provide have a beneficial effect on NAV for continuing greater flexibility to the investment managers, the shareholders, the resultant shrinkage of the Board decided to replace the remaining 40 million Companys overall asset base must be considered Floating Rate Notes FRN with a 40 million loan undesirable in the long run.
In this respect, the facility of which 12 million is currently drawn Company is fortunate that it is not unduly that is capable of regular short-notice review in burdened with an overhang of reluctant either direction.
The new facility should enable the shareholders.
There were no share buybacks investment managers to position the Companys during the year under review.
At the end of the gearing levels in a way that matches and reflects year the discount of the share price to NAV was their views of market conditions as closely as relatively high at 18.4% but since that time it has possible.
tended to be lower and is currently 15.4%.
JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 1 Chairmans Statement continued and is the global sector specialist for information Earnings and Dividends technology in the Global Portfolios Group, based in Earnings per share rose to 5.42p per share mainly London.
He holds a BA Hons in Economics from as a result of the savings in the interest charge Cambridge University, is a holder of the CFA following the repayment of the FRN.
The Board is designation and is IIMR qualified.
The investment proposing, subject to shareholders approval at the managers are part of the 32 strong team within Annual General Meeting, to pay a final dividend of JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management responsible 5.0p per share.
This is an increase of 19% over the for the management of global portfolios.
4.2p paid in each of the last two years.
This dividend is to be paid on 1st December 2003 to Annual General Meeting shareholders on the register of members at close My fellow Directors and I invite you to attend the of business on 31st October 2003.
Companys Annual General Meeting which will be held at JPMorgan Flemings offices at 10 Directors Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF on Thursday 27th There were no changes to the composition of the November 2003 at 12 noon.
The investment Board during the year but, following the year-end, managers, Peter Harrison and Ed Walker, will Raymond Mould decided to step down as a review the past year and comment on the outlook Director with effect from 14th August 2003. for the current year.
If you have any detailed or Raymond became a Director of the Company in technical questions, you may wish to raise these in 1999 and the Board has greatly appreciated his advance with the Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 knowledge and enquiring mind which have been of Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Shareholders much assistance to the Board in its deliberations.
who are unable to attend the AGM in person are Investment Managers encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Peter Harrison leads the JPMorgan Fleming The AGM will be followed by refreshments and investment management team and was supported there will be an opportunity for shareholders to throughout the year under review by Peter Warnes meet the Directors and the investment managers.
In August 2003, the role occupied by Peter Warnes was transferred to Ed Walker who, with Peter Harrison, operates out of London.
Ed George Paul joined JPMorgan Fleming in 1997 from university Chairman 9th October 2003 2 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas
