Chairmans Statement Hamish Buchan CHAIRMAN I am pleased to introduce the 2003 Annual Report For UK investors the weakness of the US$ meant to shareholders.
I became Chairman of your that returns were reduced by 10.1%.
The dollar Company in April 2003 and would like to thank my began 2003 at a rate of 1.61 to Sterling and ended predecessor, Nicholas Cosh, for his 20 years of at 1.79.
A currency hedge has been in place since valuable service to the Company.
Last year was a 30th November 2000 to protect against any busy one for the Company with some recovery in currency fluctuations in respect of the Companys asset values and the appointment of two new existing 50 million debenture.
I look forward to Your Companys net asset value rose by 17.8% in representing shareholders and hope to meet with total return terms and the outperformance was many of you at the Annual General Meeting to be attributable to strong returns from the smaller held on 23rd April 2004. companies portfolio together with the effect of gearing, share buybacks and the currency hedge 1 Investment Performance on our 50 million debenture.
The larger After nearly three years of declining asset values, companies portfolio underperformed the 2003 reversed the bear market trend with stock benchmark index due to the investment manager markets in all the major economies showing remaining committed to his policy of investing in positive returns.
The S&P 500 Composite Index larger, blue chip growth companies at a reasonable produced a return of 15.3% in sterling terms and price.
Your Board is supportive of this policy and both the Companys net asset value and share believes that, as the economic recovery extends price rose by more than that figure.
The early and deepens, these types of companies should months of 2003 saw falls in the US equity markets regain their attractions to investors and produce as investors grew wary about the prospects of war sustained good returns.
Full details of the activities in Iraq.
From mid March onwards the speedy of the Investment Managers are set out in their resolution of the major conflict in the Middle East report on pages 6 to 10. coupled with extremely strong GDP growth in the US led the market to surge ahead for the Gearing remainder of the year.
The Companys gearing is managed on an active Over the year, the Index rose by 28.2% in US$ and basis with the Board of Directors setting the the Companys net asset value increased by 31.0%.
overall strategic policy and guidelines.
At present 1 All figures calculated on a total return basis.
JPMorgan Fleming American 1 Chairmans Statement continued there is an upper limit of 20% of shareholders results achieved.
Additional disciplines have been funds and this can only be altered with Board introduced to assist in decision making when the consent.
Board is considering gearing levels, risk management, tracking error and asset allocation.
During the year a US$40 million fixed loan matured In addition, a new peer group has been and was repaid.
Your Board with its managers established for comparative purposes.
This new reviewed the Companys gearing facilities and in group includes large US listed closed-end funds, August 2003 a new US$20 million flexible loan was comparable unit trusts and OEICs.
Together with the existing 50 million necessary as the Company has no directly debenture this provides the Company with potential comparable UK listed investment trusts in this gearing facilities of up to 19% of shareholders funds sector.
We now have concluded that the ongoing at the year end.
Due to the levels of cash held at the appointment of the existing Investment Manager is year end, the new facility was undrawn and the in the best interests of shareholders.
These Companys net gearing level was 10.8% of reviews will continue on an annual basis at which a shareholders funds.
determination as to the continuing appointment of The active use of gearing, together with the the Investment Manager will be made.
appreciation of the currency hedge, contributed 3.7% towards the Companys overall return.
Revenue Account and Dividends Earnings per share for the year were 6.41p Investment Manager compared with 4.75p per share in 2002.
This was The Companys objective is to provide mainly due to there being no tax allocation to the Shareholders with capital growth from North capital account because of the requirements of the American investments.
During the year your Board new statement of recommended practice SORP has thoroughly reviewed the capabilities of the please refer to note v. Taxation on page 39 for Investment Manager to assess whether JPMorgan further details.
The Companys policy is to Fleming Asset Management is the most distribute substantially all the available income appropriate manager of the Companys portfolio.
In and therefore the Board is proposing that a addition to the normally scheduled Board dividend of 6.80 pence per share 2002: 4.80p be meetings, your Directors have engaged in paid on 4th May 2004 to shareholders on the extensive strategy and investment meetings with register on 2nd April 2004. the named investment managers and their The earnings per share figure for the year is colleagues and we have been satisfied with the calculated on the average weekly shares in issue.
While we do not expect the gains to be as large as those in 2003 due to higher market valuations, decelerating profits growth and prospects for higher interest rates, the outlook for 2004 remains positive... Chairmans Statement continued Due to the timing of share repurchases during the The Board year the earnings per share figure appears lower It is with deep regret that the Board learned of the than our proposed final dividend.
I can however death of Roger Palmer on 6th March 2004.
Roger confirm that the final dividend will be paid entirely had been a Director of the Company since February out of earnings for the year.
The Board will miss his wise counsel.
Share Repurchases and Treasury Shares Nicholas Cosh retired as Chairman and Director in The Companys shares continued to trade at a April 2003 and the Board appointed an independent discount to net asset value during the year.
The recruitment consultancy firm to assist in finding trading range was between 6.0% and 12.6%.
I am pleased Shareholders have granted the authority to allow the to report that James Fox and James Williams were Company to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Ordinary appointed to the Board in July 2003 and that they Shares in issue and during the year 5,347,361 have already been valuable contributors to Board Ordinary Shares 9.1% were repurchased at an discussions.
Both have considerable experience in average discount of 9.6%.
The total cost of these the fund management industry and have worked repurchases was 26.9 million and this activity directly in the US equity investment sector.
At the enhanced the net asset value by 2.8m, which is forthcoming Annual General Meeting they will stand equivalent to an additional 1.0% in performance for re-election as is required under the Companys terms.
At the Annual General Meeting Shareholders Articles of Association.
will be requested to allow the Company to continue the authority to repurchase shares.
Your Board is cognisant of the revisions that have been made to the Combined Code and the AITC Your Company has noted that legislation has now Code on Corporate Governance.
After an been passed that would allow the Company to extensive review, your Board intends to adopt seek Shareholder approval to hold Ordinary Shares procedures that will ensure that the principles of in treasury with a view to either subsequent rethe revised Codes are put into place.
The Board has debated whether this matter should be included at this In respect of the Board of Directors, it has been years Annual General Meeting and has concluded agreed that those Directors who have served for a that it is not yet appropriate to seek Shareholder period greater than nine years from initial approval to hold shares in treasury.
This matter is appointment will submit themselves for annual being kept under review and we may revert to re-election.
At this years Annual General Meeting, Shareholders at an appropriate time.
therefore, Iain Saunders will submit himself for 4 JPMorgan Fleming American Chairmans Statement continued re-election, and annually thereafter.
Iain Saunders believes that it is important to set fee levels at an has an extensive knowledge of the US market and appropriate rate to retain and attract high calibre has many years of experience in the affairs of individuals to supervise the affairs of the Company.
investment companies and I believe his Outlook re-appointment will be of significant benefit to the Last year turned out to be the classic recovery year Company.
with a rapid acceleration of profits growth, An amendment to the Articles of Association has translating into very positive share price gains.
been included in the special business of the Looking forward, we should continue to see Annual General Meeting.
This is a technical positive developments in the US with the domestic amendment to ensure that Directors submit economy firmly in recovery mode, interest rates themselves for re-election at least once every three remaining at historically low levels, benefits from years, and annually if they have served on the the tax cuts increasing consumers take home Board for a period exceeding nine years.
income and the decline of the US dollar, relative to The Board has recently reviewed the level of the Euro and Yen, helping to boost profits growth.
Directors fees paid and have agreed that fees While we do not expect the gains to be as large as should increase with effect from 1st May 2004. those in 2003 due to higher market valuations, Remuneration levels for Directors have been decelerating profits growth and prospects for unchanged since 1999 and the regulatory demands higher interest rates, the outlook for 2004 remains on Directors have increased substantially over that positive.
We are anticipating better performance period.
The Chairmans fee will rise to 30,000 per from the larger company part of our portfolio as we annum and the fees of the other Directors will expect the overall rate of profits growth to slow, increase to 20,000 per annum.
The Chairman of which should benefit larger, more stable the Audit Committee will receive an additional fee companies.
We will continue to utilise our of 3,000 per annum to reflect the additional work valuation models to help us determine the most undertaken.
It is the Boards current intention not appropriate asset mix of large companies versus to review the fee levels again until 2007.
Full small companies, the extent to which we use our details are set out in the Directors remuneration gearing and to monitor the tracking error.
Shareholders will be requested to approve an Hamish Buchan increase in the aggregate level of Directors fees Chairman 11th March 2004 payable at the Annual General Meeting.
Your Board JPMorgan Fleming American 5
