CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Leading market change in Europe The London Stock Exchange is a high quality business that is in a strong position to lead market change in Europe.
Amid turbulent markets worldwide, our financial performance has been strong.
choice both for investors to diversify Competition portfolios and for European companies over Supporting the continuing growth of your where they list, cutting their cost of capital company, our public policy campaigns have substantively in the process.
In order to made progress as we seek to promote encourage more companies to access open and more competitive markets in Europes capital markets, we urge greater the UK and Europe.
flexibility towards the distinct needs of Stamp duty on share transactions remains both smaller and international issuers.
one of the major barriers to more efficient We encouraged and supported the merger share trading and to greater investment by in September 2002 of CRESTCo and UK companies.
We continue to build support Euroclear, creating Europes largest among key business leaders for abolition.
This constituted In September, ahead of the Governments a major step towards delivering a single, Pre-Budget Report, we took the leading user-owned, user-governed, exchangerole in organising a major stamp duty neutral system of clearing and settlement conference.
Despite significant restraints across Europe.
Such a system would reduce on public finances, we will continue our transaction costs for investors and further campaign until we secure a commitment cut issuers cost of capital.
to abolition from the Government.
Our campaign to create a more efficient Our support for an efficient single European solution for clearing and settlement was market in financial services is unwavering.
given an additional boost in March when We are convinced that implementation the European competition authorities ruled of the European Commissions Financial against discriminatory behaviour in the Services Action Plan should be swifter sector.
Given Londons open business model, and promote greater competition between we believe we have much to gain from a providers.
This would help create more stronger enforcement of competition rules.
I am confident that your company is in a position to be able to respond quickly and flexibly to any opportunities that arise.
4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Don Cruickshank Chairman The competitive landscape is changing as a New Chairman result of the public policy challenges that we In October 2002, I announced to the Board face.
I am confident that your company is in that I would not seek to extend my term as a position to be able to respond quickly and Chairman beyond the next Annual General flexibly to any opportunities that arise.
I am delighted that the Board has announced Chris Gibson-Smith Corporate governance as my successor.
Chris joined the Exchange We are supportive of the highest standards Board from 1 May.
He brings real depth of of corporate governance as both a listed highly relevant experience on an international company ourselves and as a provider of stage, and his insights and leadership skills high quality and attractive equity markets.
will be invaluable to the Exchange.
He is We welcome the thrust of the Higgs Review extremely well qualified to lead the Board of the Role and Effectiveness of Nonand to support the management team led Executive Directors as a move in that by Clara Furse.
In our submission to the Financial I have enjoyed the unique experience of Reporting Council, we set out our own leading your company through such a views on how the recommendations of concentrated and beneficial period of the Review could best be translated into change.
I would like to express my a Revised Combined Code.
As to the appreciation to staff and shareholders for Board of your company itself, we particularly the support they have given me.
The natural value the contribution of the Non-Executive strengths of the London Stock Exchange Directors who are part of the market we are significant and I know that your Board, serve, and this may raise some issues of Clara, her management team and staff will compliance with the Revised Code.
build on its strengths further to expand and diversify the business successfully.
Don Cruickshank Chairman Chris Gibson-Smith Chris Gibson-Smith 57 will become the new Chairman of the London Stock Exchange on 16 July 2003, following our AGM.
He brings extensive international commercial experience and strategic acumen to the Exchange, which will help to strengthen our position as the worlds most global exchange business.
Currently, he is also Chairman of National Air Traffic Services.
Previously, he has had 30 years experience with BP plc, one of the worlds leading companies, where he rose to become Group Managing Director.
