Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 5 Chairmans Statement Harvey McGrath Chairman Chairmans Statement This has been another very significant year market.
The acquired business has both met for the Group.
With two important acquisitions our financial expectations and, perhaps more made during the year, RMF Investment Group importantly, acted as a catalyst to further RMF and GNI Holdings Limited GNI, we develop our distinctive business model which have materially strengthened our market integrates investment management skills, presence in Asset Management and product structuring expertise and proven Brokerage respectively.
We have also enjoyed distribution capabilities in a scaleable format.
strong overall business performance, with To mark the completion of this integration funds under management of $26.1 billion at effort we have rebranded the division Man year end, up from $10.7 billion at 31 March Investments.
2002, reflecting good product performance, record asset raising and the acquisition As noted, despite the focus on integration of RMF in May with assets of $8.7 billion.
the division also saw strong underlying Net management fee income was up 54%, business performance.
Sales for the year and in combination with a strong year for were $6.7 billion, reflecting good Brokerage, diluted underlying earnings per performance from our range of products and share, a measure which excludes performance the attractiveness of our structured product related fee income, Sugar Australia, goodwill solutions even at a time of continued amortisation and exceptional items, was up global uncertainty.
In terms of investment 33% at 60.7 pence.
Performance fee earnings performance, trend following strategies added 29.3 pence per share.
Diluted earnings performed particularly well, with AHL per share on total operations was 75.8 pence benchmark funds generating returns of and the Group recorded a 26.9% post-tax 31% for the year to March 2003, and a return on equity, a very creditable achievement correspondingly positive effect on the many given the near doubling of the Groups capital composite products with an allocation to base during the year.
These results have these strategies.
RMF also performed well, enabled us to achieve all three of our financial producing the premium to risk free returns targets, being the delivery of significant growth with low volatility profile sought after by in underlying earnings, the maintenance of institutional clients.
Man-Glenwood, our a high return on equity and the doubling Chicago based fund of funds manager of funds under management from the level returned a small negative performance for of $6.7 billion at 31 March 2001 within the year reflecting a poor first half in equity three years.
All of these results significantly outperformed global equity Given the Groups performance in the year markets.
Of the $6.7 billion of funds raised and our strong financial condition, the Board during the year, $4.3 billion was from private proposes a final dividend of 14.1 pence per clients, the balance institutional, including share which, together with the interim $2.1 billion raised by RMF post-acquisition.
dividend of 9.1 pence per share, amounts In terms of geography, Europe contributed to 23.2 pence per share for the year, an 53% of funds raised, reflecting the RMF increase of 25%.
institutional sales, with Asia Pacific, the Americas and the Middle East contributing In Asset Management, the year saw the 26%, 12%, and 9% respectively.
acquisition of RMF for a consideration of 572 million, its successful integration, and As a result of higher asset levels, net strong organic growth in assets and profitability management fee income rose 54% to in the business as a whole.
Given the size of 181.1 million.
This represents 1.3% of the acquired business and the challenges in average funds under management during the markets this was a tremendous the year, down from 1.9% in the prior year, accomplishment.
I wrote last year about the reflecting the higher proportion of institutional logic for the RMF acquisition.
In the fast assets managed, rather than any reduction growing market for alternative investment in the profitability of our core private client products we have positioned the business business.
Good product returns drove net to be the leading provider of products and performance income up 108% to 115.0 solutions to both private and institutional million, resulting in a total profit before investors.
RMF has broadened our range tax and goodwill amortisation for Man of investment management content, Investments of 296.1 million, up 71% strengthened our structuring capabilities and from the previous year.
enhanced our presence in the institutional Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 6 Chairmans Statement Looking forward, we expect to see continued I would like to offer my congratulations growth in the level of assets allocated to and thanks to Stanley Fink, his executive alternative investment strategies that provide team and all of our staff whose efforts diversification opportunities for institutional have contributed to the Groups success and private investors.
We intend that Man in a challenging year.
Our rate of growth Investments consolidates and enhances its continues to provide substantial opportunities position as the leading provider of these for many in the Group, and we are committed products and services.
to recruiting, developing and rewarding talented people across our businesses.
The year has also been significant for our Brokerage division, which as a leading In conclusion, I am pleased to report that futures and options broker provides agency the positive momentum in the business and matched principal brokerage and related has continued into the new financial year.
services to an institutional and private client Man Multi-Strategy Series 5 closed for base internationally.
The acquisition of GNI subscription in April having raised the in November 2002 has materially enhanced equivalent of $725 million, a record amount this market position, creating the largest for any Man global product offering.
Together independent futures broker worldwide, and with other joint venture and institutional sales providing the division with critical mass in and positive fund performance overall, funds equity derivatives.
Integration of GNI was under management are currently estimated well advanced by year-end, with the acquired to be $28 billion, with a full pipeline of business contributing 4.6 million of the regional and global offerings going forward.
divisions 48.3 million pre-tax profits for The Brokerage business has also had a good the year before goodwill amortisation and start to the year.
With retention of revenue streams and cost reductions running at or above expectation we would expect a significantly higher contribution from the GNI platform in the current financial year.
The balance of the division produced a creditable result for the year with strong Harvey McGrath performances from our financial futures, Chairman foreign exchange, energy and metals franchises in particular, together with ongoing focus on cost, offsetting the negative effect of further interest rate reductions on the retail segment.
Overall, we expect the futures broking industry to continue to consolidate and anticipate that we will continue to grow through the acquisition of both producer teams and businesses.
We also see incremental opportunities in North America as more business moves to screens.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 7 Heading Mans track record in its Asset Management business stretches back two decades.
The strength of this track record is critical in an industry whose central goal is to provide diversification away from traditional equity and Harvey McGrath, Chairman Man Gr bond investments.
