Chairmans Statement The past year has been another excellent one for your Companys tenth anniversary.
The Board has decided that it is Company, with the net asset value per share NAV rising appropriate to make such an issue, as a result of the Companys 61.2%, and the share price rising 67.1%, against a benchmark continuing strong performance and the prevailing favourable return of 52.1%.
The outstanding performance coupled with outlook for commodity markets.
Details of this proposal are set underlying strong demand for mining equities during the year out in the circular enclosed with this report.
The issue is subject has meant that the discount to NAV at which the shares trade to shareholder approval and you will have a chance to vote has narrowed to 5.6%, from 14.5% at the time of publication upon it at an Extraordinary General Meeting which will be held of the last annual report.
immediately following the Annual General Meeting.
The strong performance of the portfolio has been recognised by For the first time in its history, the Company has made the marketplace, and your Company has won three awards for a charitable donation.
This has gone to the Julian Baring Best Specialist Investment Trust over the past year: from Scholarship Fund.
Those of our shareholders who have held Investment Week for the second year running, Bloomberg their shares for a number of years will remember that the late Money and What Investment.
Julian Baring was a founder member of this Board, and was instrumental in the successful launch of your Company in 1993.
Earnings per share, after tax, were 1.73p compared with 2.52p Julian was a long standing investor in and commentator on the last year.
The lower comparable earnings this year are due to the mining industry and headed the Natural Resources team at fact that the past two years have seen exceptional levels of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers for a number of years.
The income received by the Company.
In 2001, we saw an Julian Baring Scholarship Fund aims to give students from unprecedented stream of dividend revenue from our platinum African countries the opportunity to pursue mining related holdings.
In the current year there has been a well deserved studies at university.
We are increase in management charges as a result of the improved proud to have been able to remember Julian in this way.
capital value, which has impacted revenue compared with 2002.
I am also delighted to report that Ian Barby joined the Board The directors are recommending the payment of a dividend of on 1 December 2003.
Ian has extensive experience of the 1.70p per share 2002: 1.60p, plus a special dividend of 0.50p, investment industry, and was managing director of the payable on 31 March 2004 to shareholders on the register on Investment Trust division of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 27 February 2004.
No special dividend is payable.
until his retirement in June 2003.
We look forward to benefiting from Ians knowledge.
There has been good demand for the Companys shares during the year and this has meant that we have not needed to utilise Turning to the outlook, your fund manager advises us that whilst the buy back programme.
We are seeking to renew this long term trends tend to move imperceptibly, the global authority at the Annual General Meeting however.
From economy is likely to experience significant shifts in the balance of 1 December 2003, investment trusts have been able to buy economic power over the coming years.
Chinas influence as a back shares and hold them in treasury, rather than cancelling net importer of many commodities, coupled with the increased them.
The Board has considered its policy in this regard and and growing access to its markets for international investors, does not believe it would be appropriate at present, although it should continue to spur growth at a number of our portfolio may seek shareholder approval for such a facility in the future.
In addition, the fact that the US has tacitly condoned the depreciation of the US dollar may result in strong commodity December 2003 marked the Companys tenth anniversary since prices being maintained.
These factors bode well for corporate launch and although there have been trials and tribulations earnings in the minerals industry.
along the way, the overall returns have been impressive.
At inception, the Companys NAV stood at 97.20p per share and Each year, shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on the by the end of December 2003 this had grown to 239.09p a continuation of the Company.
Following another successful rise of 146.0% in capital only terms.
By comparison, the HSBC year, with prospects remaining good for the Companys activity, Global Mining Index rose by 48.3% and the FTSE All-Share we hope that you will again vote in favour of this resolution.
The Board has considered a proposal from Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Limited for the P S Wilmot-Sitwell Company to make a bonus issue of new Warrants on the 18 February 2004 4
