x CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement although necessarily tentative at this stage, are for Results After three years when Monks portfolio produced a modest rise in earnings in the current year.
a return better than that of the major indices Investment Activity against which the Board judges its performance, This year still lower equity markets and still higher it is disappointing to report on a year where our fixed interest markets have led us to accelerate performance has lagged, if not by a great the process of reducing fixed interest and adding margin.
After falling by 23.5% in the six months to equities which was already underway in the to the end of October, marginally less than the year to April 2002.
As can be seen from the FTSE World Index in sterling terms, our net asset table on page 9, during the year we sold 95m value declined by a further 1.2% in the second of overseas government bonds, with 20.6m half of the year while the World Index rose by being used to finance share buybacks and 0.5%.
This means that for the full year net asset 60.7m being invested in equities.
We added to value per share fell from 221.5p to 167.5p, or our holdings in all equity areas, but the main 24.4%.
For comparison the World Index fell by additions were in Europe 18.8m, North 23.3%, the UK by 24.7%, the US by 22.4%, America 15.8m and Japan 11.5m.
For a Europe by 24.1%, Japan by 27.7% and Pacific number of years now Monks has been pursuing a ex Japan by 24.6% all figures expressed in defensive investment strategy, with holdings of sterling terms.
As can be seen from the bonds and cash exceeding, at times by a wide attribution table on page 8, we had a margin, our long term debt, so that the portfolio disappointing year for stock selection in all has been negatively geared in terms of equities.
overseas areas, and another year of good From a long term perspective this is an unusual relative results in Britain was not enough to posture for a trust with Monks investment compensate.
Our weighting in fixed interest and objective and this year, as bond yields fell to our successful choice of markets and investments their lowest level for forty years and equities had in that asset class almost exactly offset the effect their worst performance since the 1970s, it has of our gearing, which would otherwise have been seemed appropriate to move to a more normal unhelpful in falling markets.
Our sales of bonds and purchases of Revenue Account equities were carried out in stages over the year, Earnings per share fell from 1.61p to 1.04p.
The with the main equity buying taking place in mid main reasons were a substantial 3.3m drop in summer, early autumn and finally early in the bond interest received, as the bulk of our New Year.
In retrospect, given that markets did investments in this area were sold, and a rise in not bottom till mid March, this buying was a little promotional spending, both explained in more premature, but we are hopeful that the general detail below.
It is, however, encouraging that strategy will in due course prove to have been dividend rates in our equity portfolio increased by successful.
about 5% over the year and this, together with the fact that the liquidation of our bond portfolio Borrowings is now largely complete, leads us to think that the Our borrowings are essentially unchanged from period of falling earnings and thus dividend last year, except that in late March we switched payments is now behind us.
Our estimates, our $50m loan into US dollars two thirds and THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT yen one third.
This was done mainly in the Directors expectation that these currencies were likely to This year sees the retiral of two of our Directors be weaker than the euro in the short to mid who are approaching their 70th birthdays.
Tim term, but it has also had a major beneficial Shakerley has been a Director since 1984 and impact on our revenue estimates, as the overall Michael Sayers since 1995, and the Board and interest rate on this loan is currently 1.2% the Company have benefited greatly from their compared with the 3.7% paid on it last year wide experience and sound advice.
Looking to 3 a saving to us of some m over the year the future, we have been able to recruit Edward 4 ahead.
Harley, who is 43 and became a partner in Cazenove & Co in 1994, having joined the Shares firm in 1983.
During his career at Cazenove he Last June, the bulk of the 39m shares held by has worked in the United States and Asia, and Clerical Medical Investment Group representing been responsible for Latin American business, the stake belonging to Equitable Life came on and therefore has a strong background in the market.
Some 15m of these were placed investment markets which are relevant to Monks.
with Scottish Widows and about 5m were sold I commend to you his election as a Director, through the market to a variety of buyers, with which forms part of the business of the Annual the balance almost 11m shares being bought General Meeting.
This selling programme Also part of that business is a resolution to coincided with a steep fall in the general increase the aggregate annual limit of Directors market and as a result there was a sudden and fees from 100,000 to 200,000.
We are sharp rise in the discount on our shares, as can already close to the existing limit, and the extra be seen from the table on page 3.
Since then burdens placed on directors nowadays are there has been some recovery, which I am glad likely to mean that fees will generally continue to say has continued into the current year, but to rise.
as yet we are not quite back to the level of discount seen in 2001 and the early part of Outlook 2002.
The last twelve months have been disappointing To assist the recovery, the Managers have in terms of general economic growth and been increasing their efforts to market our corporate profits.
The increasing tension in the shares, both by spending the increased sums Middle East leading up to the war in Iraq was which the Board has authorised for a further distraction and the successful promotional activities, and by introducing conclusion of military operations there has not, new savings products, such as the Childrens as yet, led to much improvement in the political Savings Plan, designed to meet requirements scene.
Indeed the diplomatic disagreements to save for children for educational purposes which surfaced in the weeks preceding the and or inheritance planning.
The Board has outbreak of hostilities revealed considerable been pleased to see a steady rise in the strains in the relationship between the United proportion of our shares held by or on behalf States and some important European countries, of private individuals.
They have also 6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT served to drive something of a wedge between I hope that in a years time I will be reporting Britain and some of our EU partners.
Any on a set of results which is more satisfactory economic consequences of these strained than the somewhat depressing figures in this relationships are unlikely to be favourable.
Annual General Meeting The economic outlook generally remains I would like to extend an invitation to all discouraging, with Europe seemingly sinking shareholders to attend the Annual General towards Japanese levels of growth and the Meeting to be held on 6 August at 11.00 am, repeated programmes of fiscal and monetary at the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Savoy stimulus being effected by the US authorities Place, London rather than in Baillie Giffords producing rather disappointing results, even if London office, where we have met previously.
the figures for growth are better than elsewhere As well as dealing with the normal business set in the developed world.
out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting However, equity markets have fallen a long on page 45, Richard Burns, Baillie Giffords way and a number of them, such as Britain and partner responsible for Monks, will give a France, are offering income returns which are presentation on the investment outlook.
We competitive with those available from bonds or hope that this change of venue and format will cash deposits.
This is even more the case in encourage the attendance of a larger number of Japan, although there the absolute level of shareholders and I hope to see many of you on yields around 1% is very low.
Even in the that occasion.
United States, where market statistics, whether for yields or price earnings ratios, remain high by historic standards, there are plenty of shares, many of them in our portfolio, which offer clear value.
In these circumstances, we feel that our move over the last twelve months to a more Charles Nunneley positive investment stance is justified, and 16 June 2003 THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7
