Chairmans Statement We have enjoyed a good recovery in the UK equity market since March but the last year as a whole was difficult and disappointing for UK equities.
The Net Asset Value total return for the year ended June 2003 was -15.9%.
This compares with the benchmark FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index return of -11.2% and the FTSE All-Share Index of -9.7%.
At the year end, Murray Income was ranked 15 out of 17 within the UK Growth and Income sector of Investment Trusts.
Attribution analysis shows that gearing cost 1.6% and stock selection 2.5%.
The Manager is confident that the policy of selecting value companies outside the benchmark will be vindicated.
Dividends In last years Annual Report, the Board stated its intention to change the balance between the interim and final dividend payments by increasing the size of the first three interim dividends and proposing a corresponding reduction in the final dividend.
Subsequently, the first and second interim dividends were paid on 17 January 2003 and 16 April 2003 each at the rate of 4.25p per Ordinary share, with the third interim dividend being paid on 16 July 2003 at the rate of 4.5p.
The revenue flow from the portfolio continues to remain secure and, consequently, the Directors propose a final dividend payment of 4.75p, payable on 31 October 2003, making total dividends for the year ended 30 June 2003 of 17.75p.
This represents an increase of 4.4% on the total dividends paid in the previous year.
It is worth noting that dividends have been increased every year for more than 20 years.
At 30 June 2003, Murray Income shares yielded 4.3%, which at that time was more than the redemption yield available on government bonds and much more than the yield available on cash deposits.
Share Buy Backs During the year ended 30 June 2003, the Company did not repurchase any Ordinary shares.
The discount, at which the shares traded to their Net Asset Value, steadily improved from 11.1% to 4.1% and showed few significant fluctuations.
At the Annual General Meeting on 29 October 2003, Shareholders will be asked to renew the authority to buy back shares for the following twelve months.
At present any shares that are repurchased have to be cancelled immediately.
In December 2003, regulations are expected to come into force, permitting investment trusts to buyback and hold shares, with a view to reselling them on more favourable terms.
The Directors are carefully considering this new and interesting opportunity.
Strategy and Borrowing Although the portfolio continues to be managed with regard to the structure and weightings of the benchmark FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, approximately 20% of holdings have been in stocks and sectors outside this benchmark.
In particular, the Manager has included shares in the telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, food producers and beverage sectors which are believed to offer the prospect of good returns, while also reducing the volatility and risk of a portfolio which tracks the index.
Bank borrowings, all of which are flexible and short term, began the year at 31million, peaked at 40million and ended the year at 35million.
No costs other than interest and commitment commission were incurred in either drawing down or repaying any of this debt.
Total committed facilities available currently amount to 60million, although the Board has decided to reduce this to 45million in October 2003, when one of the facilities is due to expire.
Murray Income Trust PLC 7 Chairmans Statement Your Board This year has seen the publication of various reviews that seek to improve corporate governance and reporting in quoted companies, the most visible of which has been Derek Higgs review.
Other reviews are ongoing: in July the AITC published its Code of Corporate Governance and the FSAs proposed changes to the listing rules for investment trust companies are expected shortly.
Your Board is determined to remain at the forefront of best practice in looking after Shareholder interests.
It believes that a strong, experienced independent Board, with the right balance of skills, is a fundamental part of good corporate governance.
In addition to quarterly Board meetings to evaluate the performance of the Manager and the day-to-day business of the Company, we meet annually for a strategy meeting.
At this years meeting, we reviewed the strategic direction of the Company, including its objectives, relevance, structure and Shareholder communications.
Also, in June, I attended, with fellow Director Patrick Gifford and the Manager, Ross Watson, an informal meeting of Shareholders and prospective Shareholders.
Such meetings help the Board to develop its strategic thinking and offer a means for Shareholders to provide comment and express views, outside the formal setting of the AGM.
Following the sad death of Roger Adams, the Board appointed an independent firm of consultants to help find a new non-executive Director.
Having assessed the mix of skills within the Board, we specifically briefed the consultant to identify candidates with a strong legal background.
We are therefore delighted to have attracted Marian Glen, Head of Funds and Financial Services at Edinburgh-based lawyers Shepherd Wedderburn.
We greatly value her contribution and consider that her knowledge and experience of the financial services industry enhances the combined experience of the Board.
I have been a Director of Murray Income since 1988 and have decided to retire from the Board immediately after the AGM next year.
Early in 2004 the Board will, therefore, again appoint consultants to help identify a new Director.
The Board has also evaluated its options for my replacement as Chairman.
The other non-executives were particularly aware of the need for continuity, independence from the Manager, and experience and understanding of the investment trust sector.
Patrick Gifford was our unanimous choice and I am pleased to report that he has agreed to succeed me.
Also Adrian Coats agreed to become Chairman of the Audit Committee from 1 July 2003.
Biographical details of your Board, including other directorships, remuneration and their attendance records are printed on pages 3 to 5.
Outlook The economy is experiencing modest growth, low interest rates and, high levels of government borrowing.
However, the stock market has recovered from the low levels reached earlier this year and there may be further gains, given the better background for corporate profits in 2004.
In addition, the relatively high yield of Murray Incomes shares and the spread of investments in quality companies offer Shareholders some protection against a downturn in the market.
In the longer term, we firmly believe that a managed portfolio, based on our chosen benchmark index, will prove to be a rewarding investment.
Blaise Hardman 10 September 2003 Chairman 8 Murray Income Trust PLC
