Chairmans Statement Background currencies and investing in higher yielding fixed The year 2003 was particularly eventful.
It is not interest instruments.
often, thankfully, that we experience war, mounting With both long and short term interest rates now at terrorist risks and the threat of a serious global historically low levels your Board and the Manager epidemic such as SARS, accompanied by extreme believe that it is appropriate to reinvest a proportion volatility in equity markets and major movements in of this fixed interest portfolio in higher yielding currency markets, especially the dollar.
To highlight equities to help protect the income stream and to the impact of the latter, a US investor in the German avoid losses in the capital values of bonds which DAX Index would have seen a 65% gain on his would result from a rising interest rate environment in investment, whilst a German investor in the S&P 500 the future.
This move is designed to provide would only have seen a 6% return!
Most Asian flexibility in a changing environment.
currencies showed some strength against the dollar but were weak against the euro.
It seems likely that Circular the dollar would have been weaker had it not been Enclosed with this Annual Report is a Circular for intervention in favour of the dollar by Asian providing more details on the following matters: governments, as well as the willingness of these countries to recycle their balance of payments Firstly, from 1 December 2003 Investment Trusts can surpluses into US Treasuries.
Whether Asian countries purchase their own shares and hold them in Treasury will be prepared to continue to support the dollar on for subsequent resale or cancellation.
Although your the scale needed in the future remains an open Board is not committed to using this new power, it question.
considers that to allow for its use where it would be to the benefit of Shareholders, the Companys Articles of Global equity markets were extremely weak in the Association require to be amended to exclude shares early part of the year but rallied strongly after the held in Treasury from the shares in issue for the eventual outbreak of hostilities in Iraq and as it purposes of calculating the scrip dividend for became clear that the US fiscal and monetary B Ordinary shares.
In addition, there are a number of authorities were committed to engineering economic minor changes being proposed to the Articles to ensure recovery with policy easing on an almost compliance with the listing rules and to allow voting unprecedented scale.
Geo-political factors will through the CREST system.
undoubtedly retain a powerful influence on financial markets.
Secondly, your Board feels that the present management fee arrangements should be reviewed Performance and has provisionally agreed new fee arrangements The Net Asset Value showed a Total Return of 25.5%, with the Manager, subject to your approval at the considerably ahead of the return on the benchmark Annual General Meeting.
In summary, the proposals index of 19.9%, whilst the share price Total Return combine a reduction in the basic management fee of 36.5% also reflected a substantial, and welcome, from 0.6% to 0.5% per annum of the Companys reduction over the year in the level of discount at total assets less unlisted investments and short-term which the shares trade in the stock market.
The borrowings, accompanied by the introduction of a Investment Managers Report contains an attribution performance related fee.
The total amount of the fee analysis which provides detailed analysis of all factors earned by the Manager in any one year comprising affecting net asset performance.
The key positive the basic management fee and performance fee influences, however, were an underweighting of dollar would be subject to a cap of 0.8% of the average assets and an overweighting of euro denominated value of the Companys total assets less current assets, combined with a significant overweighting in liabilities over the year.
the Asian and emerging markets.
Dividends Investment Strategy The Board believes that, after two years when the Since 1988 your Company has sought to provide level of your Companys income was felt to be Shareholders with an above average income whilst somewhat at risk from dividend reductions, the still providing full exposure to international equities.
outlook for dividends in the year ahead is much In a falling global interest rate environment this has improved.
The extent to which our dividend payment been achieved by borrowing in low interest rate is currently uncovered should therefore substantially 10 Murray International Trust PLC reduce which is a necessary pre-condition to the to increase the number of Board Meetings held resumption of growth in our dividend pay-out.
during the year from 4 to 6 and in addition to hold, annually, a separate strategy meeting.
The Directors are therefore proposing, as previously forecast, a maintained final dividend of 5.95p per During the year the Board conducted a thorough review of the Companys audit arrangements and share for the year ended 31 December 2003, payable on 21 May 2004 to Shareholders on the register at concluded that they should recommend to close of business on 23 April 2004, making a total Shareholders the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to the Company.
distribution for the year of 16.3p.
Your Board also now proposes that three interim Management dividends of 3.45p per share be paid for the year to David Briggs, who has been responsible for the day to 31 December 2004, payable on 16 August 2004, day management of the Trust since 1988 will be retiring 17 November 2004 and 16 February 2005. in June, to be succeeded by Bruce Stout, his current B Ordinary Shareholders will receive a capitalisation deputy.
The Trust has benefited considerably from in B Ordinary shares on 21 May 2004 amounting to Davids wide ranging knowledge of world economies 3.8449 B Ordinary shares for every hundred held at and stock markets and I would like to thank him, on the close of business on 23 April 2004, which is your behalf, for his dedication to the interests of the equivalent in Net Asset Value to the recommended Trust.
It is particularly fitting that he should be final dividend and three interim dividends for the retiring after a year of excellent performance.
Outlook Your Board After such a substantial recovery in global stockAs a consequence of the sad death, last year, of the markets in 2003, there is a clear need to meet current Rt Hon Viscount Younger of Leckie, the Board has market expectations of growth and profits.
At the time carried out a search for a new Director.
We were very of writing, the signs seem reasonably good, as data is pleased to welcome Lady Balfour of Burleigh to the strong and various leading indicators, such as surveys Board on 30 September 2003.
Janet has a wide range of investment intentions, hiring plans and confidence of knowledge and experience.
She is a writer and generally, continue to improve.
There are however, consultant and is also on the Board of a number of as dealt with more fully in the Investment Managers companies, including two investment trusts.
Further Report, valid concerns over the sustainability of the details of her directorships are included on page 3. growth dynamic, particularly in the United States.
The issues here centre on the highly unusual starting During the year ended 31 December 2003, changes point for this economic cycle, where the scale of were made to the reporting requirements of Directors current imbalances suggest a need for higher domestic under the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
savings, a tightening of fiscal policy and a weaker Whilst Murray International Trust is not required to dollar.
The clear implication of the balance of comply with the new Combined Code until the year payments and budget deficits is that the current ending 31 December 2004, your Board felt it was means of delivering economic growth is unsustainable important for your Company to comply with the new and a weaker dollar is only part of the solution.
provisions as soon as practicably possible.
We have therefore complied or explained where we do not Nonetheless, monetary and fiscal policy around the comply with all the recommendations, except in world are likely to remain biased towards economic relation to the requirement to state how performance growth and these policies are not currently evaluations of the Board are carried out.
We await constrained by too many signs of inflationary pressures.
It seems reasonable therefore to expect guidance from the AITC in order to give Shareholders a meaningful report on the performance evaluation of positive returns from equity markets, albeit at a more the Board.
subdued level than in this past year, with a preference for areas where there are fewer imbalances and Shareholders will also notice, on reading the therefore fewer potential impediments to growth.
Directors Remuneration Report, that the fees of your Directors have been increased during the year.
These fees had lagged considerably behind those of others in J F H Trott the industry.
In addition, the new Combined Code Chairman has placed increased responsibilities upon Directors 16 March 2004 and partly as a consequence, your Board has decided Murray International Trust PLC 11
