NORTHERN ROCKS RESULTS FOR 2003 FURTHER REINFORCE OUR POSITION AS ONE OF EUROPES MOST EFFICIENT MORTGAGE LENDERS.
BY CONCENTRATING ON OUR KEY BUSINESS AREAS OF RESIDENTIAL LOANS, COMMERCIAL LENDING AND PERSONAL CREDIT WE WERE ABLE TO RAISE OUR ASSETS AND PROFITS TO RECORD LEVELS.
THIS, TOGETHER WITH INDUSTRY LEADING RATIOS OF COST EFFICIENCY, CONFIRMS THE PROGRESS WE HAVE MADE IN ESTABLISHING NORTHERN ROCK PLC WITHIN THE FTSE 100 GROUP OF LEADING UK COMPANIES.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am particularly pleased to report that our continued success benefits our North East homeland.
The need to provide high standards of service for a growing number of customers has meant that, since we converted from a building society to a plc in 1997, we have created 1,600 new jobs, mainly in the North East.
Our latest proposals to underpin our longer-term drive for efficiency include further expansion of our Gosforth Head Office and administrative site in Sunderland, which will lead to the creation of 1,900 new posts over the medium term.
At a time when other companies are Sir John Riddell, Bt.
exporting jobs abroad, we believe in serving our customers by the economic use of a dedicated homegrown workforce.
Our customers continue to appreciate our commitment to transparency and fairness.
Our long standing Open Book policy of making all our mortgage products available to existing borrowers as well as new customers, addresses some of the concerns of the interim Miles Review published in December.
For our borrowers and our savers, we believe we set out policies that place us at the forefront of customer care, such as our Mortgage Base Rate Pledge and our Savings Pledge.
4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued ECONOMIC AND MARKET BACKGROUND With no changes in the Bank of England Base Rate throughout 2002, following seven successive rate reductions the previous year, the downward trend resumed during 2003 with further quarter point reductions in February and July.
However, November saw a rise of a quarter point the first increase in the Bank of England Base Rate since February 2000, with a further quarter point increase announced in February 2004.
The higher level of household debt in the UK should mean that smaller changes in interest rates are required to manage aggregate debt than had been typical before the Bank of Englands independence in setting rate levels.
The fundamentals of relatively high employment, low inflation and a general shortage of property have underpinned price growth in the housing market but at a gentler pace than previously.
We expect average house price inflation to return to more long-term sustainable levels, around the rate of earnings growth.
However, a gradual slowing in house price growth for the country as a whole remains the most likely scenario rather than the boom and bust of previous cycles.
Mortgages continue to be affordable, driven by the competitiveness of the market, while increasingly sophisticated credit assessment techniques continue to provide safeguards against borrowers overstretching their budgets.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Being a good neighbour in the communities in which we operate and providing a pleasant, functional working environment for our staff are mainstays of our business philosophy.
We support the concept of Work-Life Balance, a Government-backed initiative to raise the awareness of employees and employers to the importance of balancing work and personal life.
This, we believe, is to the benefit of both customers and shareholders.
5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued It was encouraging therefore that, as well as recognition for our products and services, we also collected a top award for energy efficiency in the 2003 Transco TNEI Energy Efficiency Awards.
Our efforts were described as particularly impressive because of the size and diversity of the business, making Northern Rock an exemplar in its field.
The 30 million further expansion of our Gosforth site and the acquisition of Solar House now our third building on the Doxford business park - will ensure that our staff will be able to function in a modern, energy-efficient and adaptable working environment.
Northern Rock plc remains a member of the FTSE4Good Index CORPORATE GOVERNANCE for socially responsible investors that measures corporate social Northern Rock continues to ensure that it conforms to best responsibility and provides a vehicle for investment in those Corporate Governance practice in identifying and actively companies that qualify.
Northern Rock is listed in the FTSE4Good controlling the risks to its business.
The process is described UK, Europe and Global Indices.
in detail on pages 14 to 17 in this Report and Accounts.
In the Business in the Environment Index, which considers During 2003 we were very pleased to strengthen the Board with environmental management, Northern Rock has been placed top of the appointment of Adam Fenwick as a Non-Executive Director.
its FTSE Financial Sector Group.
We were third in the sector in the previous year and our continued progress now enables us to hold As was announced with our Interim Results in July 2003, I - along a position in the Indexs Premier League.
with Sir David Chapman announced December 2003 will be retiring from the Board after this year's Annual General Meeting.
We also gained prestigious awards from Remploy, the UKs leading It has been both exciting and a great pleasure to be Chairman of supplier of employment opportunities for disabled people.
Northern Rock in a period of strong growth and to work with so After winning a Northern Regional award for our commitment to energetic and coherent an executive team: and I wish my successor, the employment and development of disabled people, we were Dr Matt Ridley, continued success with the Company.
then named as the UKs most disability friendly employer at Remploys national awards ceremony.
DIVIDEND Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 15.8 pence per In the context of our responsibility towards the community, it gives share making a total for the year of 23.3 pence an increase of me great satisfaction to report that by May 2004 we will have 15.3% on 2002. distributed almost 100 million to The Northern Rock Foundation since its inception in 1997 as an integral part of Northern Rocks CONCLUSION conversion to a plc.
From 2003's profits, the Foundation will In highly competitive markets we have once again risen to the receive 19.3m.
Indeed, with the Foundation receiving 5% of the challenge and produced an enviable set of results.
We have lent at plc's pre-tax profits each year, Northern Rock remains the top UK record levels without detriment to quality.
Our customer retention company for business giving as a percentage of profits.
We have funded strongly across all channels, including securitisation, which remains an integral part of our growth plans.
Staff in all areas of the business have managed increasing volumes with a high level of customer service.
In a constantly changing world, Northern Rock has adapted to change to ensure its continued success.
I am grateful to my Board colleagues, the management and the staff for their hard work and expertise in pursuing the best interests of Northern Rock and its stakeholders.
