Chairmans Statement | 05 YOUR COMPANY IS WELL PLACED TO BENEFIT FROM AN IMPROVING ECONOMIC CLIMATE IN ITS KEY MARKETS IN 2004 MIKE LEVETT, CHAIRMAN DEAR SHAREHOLDER, ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2004 AND The directors recommend that you vote for Old Mutuals results from most of its PROPOSED SCHEME OF ARRANGEMENT all of the items of business at the AGM and businesses were satisfactory during 2003, There are a number of items of special for the proposal contained in the scheme of but our overall performance was affected business included in the agenda for our AGM, arrangement, as they intend to do in respect of by disappointing results from our banking which is to be held at our offices in London on their personal shareholdings in the Company.
The notice of the AGM is set out on pages 156 to 158.
The accompanying BOARD AND MANAGEMENT We have shown our commitment to Nedcor explanatory notes on pages 159 to 161 and Mr Stuart and Mr Joubert retired from the by supporting its capital position.
We are also the enclosed description of a proposed scheme Board of the Company during 2003 upon reinforcing our strong base in South Africa of arrangement provide further details of reaching the age of 70 and we are grateful to through our purchase of a further 37.1% stake these matters.
them both for their contribution to the Group.
and proposed offer for the remaining minority Mr Laubscher stepped down as an executive interests in our general insurance business, We are proposing that the existing authorities director of the Company in December, upon Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited.
for the Company to buy back its shares on ceasing to be Chief Executive of Nedcor.
the five exchanges where they are listed be Michael Marks joined the Board as an additional In the USA, our asset management business renewed for a further year at the AGM, and non-executive director in February 2004 and had a successful year, despite the issues that that the Company be authorised to hold any I am delighted to welcome him to the Board arose at Pilgrim Baxter & Associates, Ltd, shares that are bought back in treasury, in on your behalf.
I am sure that his profound and our life business continued to write a accordance with recent changes in UK company knowledge of international financial services significant amount of new business, law, as an alternative to their being cancelled.
markets will be of great value to the Company.
notwithstanding the low prevailing interest The equivalent authorities were not activated rate environment.
during 2003, and we have no immediate plans The composition of the Board continues to to use them in the forthcoming year, but they be kept under review to ensure the right mix In the UK, we sold our private client stockbroking do provide the Company with desirable of skills and experience and to comply with business, Gerrard, to Barclays plc for a good flexibility in its capital management.
corporate governance expectations, including price and our asset management operations the recently revised Combined Code of the made good progress.
You will find enclosed with this Report a UK Listing Authority.
document describing proposals which your Your company is well placed to benefit from an Board has developed for an extension of On behalf of the Board and all the Companys improving economic climate in its key markets the arrangements for tracing unclaimed shareholders, I thank management and in 2004. entitlements arising from the demutualisation employees in all of our businesses for their of the Group in 1999.
These were due to continued dedication and commitment to DIVIDEND expire later in 2004, but your Board proposes the Group during 2003.
Your directors are proposing a maintained to extend them in modified form for a further final dividend of 3.1p per share, making a period.
For technical legal reasons, this involves Mike Levett total dividend for the year of 4.8p per share.
a scheme of arrangement under the UK Chairman Companies Act.
17 March 2004 RESPONDING TO CHANGE WE RESPOND QUICKLY AND EFFICIENTLY TO CONSTANTLY EVOLVING MARKETS TO MEET OUR CUSTOMERS NEEDS Solid profits in our core South African life assurance and general insurance businesses, as well as good growth in our US and UK operations, were offset by poor results at Nedcor, our South African banking subsidiary.
Net fund inflows were strong and our general insurance business, Mutual & Federal, achieved improved underwriting margins.
New management is now in place to address the problems of the past year at Nedcor.
