chief executives review During the year ended 30 September 2003 the Group made excellent progress, with profit before tax of 51.9 million, an increase of 12.8% from 46.0 million in the previous year.
The Group's results consolidate those for Britannic Money now renamed Mortgage Trust for the three months following its acquisition on 30 June 2003 and an analysis of the results between ongoing operations and the acquisition is included in note 3 to the accounts.
The difference between the fair value of the net assets acquired and the purchase price of 18.8 million has, after acquisition costs, given rise to negative goodwill of 20.9 million.
This amount will be amortised to the profit and loss account over the expected period of As reported last year, a Group-wide process benefit and will arise in the form of cash flow as the underlying portfolio of mortgage loans redeems.
During the three months ended 30 September 2003 the effect of the acquisition improvement initiative was launched in 2002 aimed at identifying and delivering significant was a pre-tax loss of 1.2 million after a charge of 3.9 million in respect of exceptional reorganisation costs and a credit of 2.1 million in respect of the amortisation of negative cost efficiencies.
This exercise involved a critical review of each of our operational processes in goodwill.
The acquisition and our post-acquisition strategy are covered in more detail below.
order to identify tasks which, after a rigorous cost and benefit analysis, could be carried out Total advances by the Group during the year were 1,477.4 million, compared with 994.4 million during the previous year, an increase of 48.6%.
Net loan assets at 30 September more efficiently by increased automation.
As a result the Group headcount was reduced from 630 at 2003, inclusive of those held by the off-balance sheet companies managed by Mortgage Trust, were 5,287.1 million, compared with 2,521.3 million at 30 September 2002.
30 September 2002 to 583 excluding Mortgage Trust at 30 September 2003, a significant reduction Net interest income for the year was 76.5 million, an increase of 4.9% from 72.9 million for the previous year.
The charge for provisions for losses of 15.9 million includes a charge when viewed against the increase in business volumes over the year.
As a result the cost to of 1.8 million in respect of vacant property provisions as a result of a planned rationalisation of the Group's premises, notably Mortgage Trust's Epsom offices, and compares with income ratio note 11 to the accounts, if Mortgage Trust is excluded, decreased from 37.0% to 33.2% a charge of 12.9 million last year.
Including Mortgage Trust, the ratio decreased to 35.3%.
The planned restructuring Other operating income increased by 50.5% to 31.0 million from 20.6 million, primarily as a result of greater commissions and fees associated with the increased volumes of loans of Mortgage Trust, reported below, should lead to further improvements going forward.
administered and of business written in the year.
After providing for corporation tax at a charge rate Operating expenses, excluding the impact of goodwill 2.1 million and reorganisation costs 3.9 million, were 37.9 million, an increase of 9.5% from 34.6 million.
Excluding the of 22.4% and for the dividend in respect of the year, shareholders funds at 30 September 2003 post-acquisition operating costs of Britannic Money, operating expenses of 33.4 million represented a reduction of 3.5% from the previous year.
6 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 7 The average age of the first time buyer in the UK is now 33, with many potential first time chief executives review buyers therefore staying in rented accommodation longer and increasing pressure on demand.
At the more modest end of the rental market pressure is also building as a result of slow but steady contraction in the social rented sector caused by a combination of restricted funding First mortgages and stock reduction due to tenant right to buy purchases.
This combination of pressures The market for buy-to-let mortgages has remained buoyant throughout much of the year.
supports the projections made by various housing analysts that supply in the private rented The sector accounts for some 6.45% of the gross lending of members of The Council of sector will have to grow significantly over the next 10 years.
Amongst these is the authoritative Mortgage Lenders CML although it should be noted that not all lenders to this sector Housing Futures survey from the Centre for Economics and Business Research which projects submit their portfolio statistics to the CML and the CML reported an increase in volumes a requirement for a 40% increase in privately rented homes by 2013.
We therefore believe that in buy-to-let lending to 7.7 billion in the first six months of 2003 against 6.7 billion in the long term prospects for this sector remain excellent.
CML figures also demonstrate that the high credit quality that has been apparent since this class of lending has been the subject of dedicated reporting Total first mortgage lending by the Group over the year was 997.6 million, an increase has continued with just 0.45% of loans across the buy-to-let sector being three or more of 77.0% over the previous year.
Total first mortgage assets including those managed months in arrears compared to just less than 1% for the mortgage market as a whole.
by Mortgage Trust grew by 164% to 4.3 billion.
Housing market data has indicated increasing tenant demand over the year.
This is due Paragon Mortgages in part to a lower level of confidence amongst homebuyers because of concerns over New lending by Paragon Mortgages grew strongly during the year with loans advanced house prices in the short term and the broader prospects for the economy.
Of particular totalling 781.3 million, an increase of 38.6% from the previous year's 563.6 million.
importance to the buy-to-let market has been the low level of first time buyer activity At 30 September 2003 the loan book of Paragon Mortgages stood at 1,934.3 million, which has fallen to approximately 29% of new purchase transactions.
up 36.8% from 1,413.9 million at 30 September 2002. Business performance in the second half of the year was particularly strong, with new application levels continuing at a high level, pushing the pipeline up to record levels by the year end, with the result that the business is well positioned for a strong start to the new financial year.
Throughout the year Paragon Mortgages has been successful in developing relationships with existing borrowers and intermediaries, with the result that a very high proportion of new applications are submitted by existing borrowers, which reduces marketing and processing costs whilst at the same time helping to maintain margin income.
Paragon Mortgages strong stance on credit has been maintained during the year, to ensure prime quality lending across the portfolio.
Credit background and income details are verified for all our borrowers, and rental details as well as property values are reviewed by our in-house team of surveyors.
An important purpose of the underwriting process is to ensure an adequate margin, for each property mortgaged, of rent compared to mortgage payments, to ensure that the landlord has a buffer in case of voids or increasing costs.
Our normal underwriting minimum is for a 130% rent to mortgage cover.
On average for the business written in the course of the year the mortgage payments were approximately twice covered by rents, giving our landlords a substantial cushion to cope with anticipated increases in interest rates.
The credit quality of the buy-to-let portfolio remains exemplary.
8 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 9
