CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2003 was not an easy year for the life insurance industry taking.
Our interest in informed and satisfied customers but I believe Prudential ended the year in a strong position goes beyond our immediate commercial interest.
In many and is well placed to take advantage of the upturn in world of the countries in which we operate, there is a recognition markets.
Many people still think of us as a UK business, that the financial services industry should work in partnership but the reality is that we are a major international financial with government, regulators and consumer groups to raise services group with strong businesses also in Asia and the basic level of financial skills.
This geographic diversification has Prudential regards financial education as an important grown significantly over recent years and is reflected in objective in each of the geographic regions in which the percentage of total sales generated by our overseas we operate, as well as forming a core part of our wider operations, which increased from 40 per cent in 1998 to Group Corporate Responsibility programme.
We run over 70 per cent in 2003. several initiatives to raise the financial literacy of consumers, The challenging market conditions of 2003, particularly in our customers and our employees.
Within the UK, our the first half, affected the financial results we announced Plan for Life Learning programme has been established in in February.
While total insurance and investment sales of partnership with charities, research bodies and international 31.5 billion increased by 11 per cent at constant exchange organisations to deliver local programmes and encourage rates, our new business achieved profits of 605 million responsible policy development.
This work runs alongside decreased by 18 per cent and our modified statutory basis Prudential UKs Plan from the Pru which was launched operating profits decreased 17 per cent to 357 million.
in 2002 to encourage people to take more control of their financial health by providing them with a free, simple, At our interim results last year in July, we said that we step-by-step guide to finances focusing on key life stages.
had reviewed our dividend policy to ensure that this Education is also a part of the core philosophy of our reflected both our operating cash flows as well as our businesses in Asia and the United States.
PRUuniversity, strategy of investing in the business for long-term growth.
for example, has been run by Prudential Corporation Asia Accordingly, the Board has decided to pay a total dividend since 2001, with the objective of providing high-quality for the year of 16 pence per share.
We recognise that the training for its staff, sales agents and business partners.
dividend payment is very important to many shareholders, Related to these issues, I was pleased at the end of last large and small alike, and the reduction from last year will be year to be asked by the Chief Executive of the Financial unwelcome.
But we believe that the new level is one from Services Authority to serve on a group which is looking at which it will be possible to grow the dividend in the future.
ways to improve financial services capability.
Further details The level of growth will be determined after considering of these and other initiatives in which Prudential is involved the opportunities to invest in those areas of our business can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of this offering attractive growth prospects, our financial flexibility Annual Report.
and the development of our statutory profits over the medium to long-term.
During 2003, I visited a number of our operations around the world and continue to be struck by the enthusiasm As markets around the world recover, a key issue to be and energy of our staff.
I would like to thank them for their addressed is the need to restore consumer confidence professionalism and commitment.
in financial services at a time when saving for long-term security has never been more important.
At Prudential, Over the last 12 months, there have been a number we are very aware of our responsibility to our customers: of changes to our Board.
Mark Tucker resigned as they have placed their trust in us and we believe that more Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia PCA with can be done to help prospective and existing customers effect from the end of June.
Under his leadership, PCA has understand the nature of the financial decisions they are become the leading European life insurer in the region, and 02 PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 AT PRUDENTIAL, WE ARE VERY AWARE OF OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR CUSTOMERS: THEY HAVE PLACED THEIR TRUST IN US AND WE BELIEVE THAT MORE CAN BE DONE TO HELP PROSPECTIVE AND EXISTING CUSTOMERS UNDERSTAND THE NATURE OF THE FINANCIAL DECISIONS THEY ARE TAKING.
I would like to thank him for his significant contribution to remember that the Code is a Code of Good Practice, Prudential and to wish him well for the future.
In January subject to the principle of comply or explain: and that 2004, Mark Norbom joined us as Chief Executive of PCA.
best practice must depend on the specific circumstances Mark was previously with General Electric where he of individual companies.
Shareholders still need to look was President and Chief Executive Officer for GE Japan.
at individual cases and exercise judgement.
M&G, our He brings a wealth of experience to the role, as well as investment management business, is one of the largest considerable knowledge of the region having worked investors in UK-listed companies and will continue to in Asia for over 10 years, and I know that he will make a exercise such judgement.
valuable contribution to the future prosperity of the Group.
Looking ahead, our Asian and US businesses are particularly Sir David Barnes stood down as a non-executive director well positioned for growth in their respective markets.
And at our Annual General Meeting in May, having served on in the UK, although we are cautious about the operating the Board for over four years.
Ann Burdus retired as a nonenvironment in the short term, we believe that there are executive director at the end of the year, having served significant opportunities in the longer-term.
The balance on the Board for seven years.
I would like to thank them and diversity of the Group puts us in a strong position to both for their invaluable contribution and to wish them generate attractive returns for shareholders.
Two new non-executive directors were appointed during the year: Kathleen ODonovan joined us in May: and Bridget Macaskill rejoined us in September having previously been a non-executive director at Prudential for almost two years until March 2001.
We were delighted to welcome both of them to the Board.
SIR DAVID CLEMENTI CHAIRMAN Since this time last year, the Combined Code for listed companies has been amended to take account of proposals arising from the Report by Sir Derek Higgs on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors.
We support the changes and believe that they represent a fair attempt to capture good governance practice.
It is important to PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 03
