CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 02 Capita First, we are focused on achieving margins of Results 12% or above on both existing and new business.
2003 has been a good year for Capita.
We have This objective has again been met in 2003 strengthened our position as the UK's market with Group operating margins increasing to leader in providing business process outsourcing 12.2% 2002: 12%.
This is a reection of BPO services to the public and private sectors internal economies of scale, the continuous and we have returned record results for the re-engineering of the cost of service delivery 15th consecutive year as a public company.
and the Group's ability to add value on behalf of its customers.
In the year ended 31 December 2003, turnover increased by 20% to 1,081m 2002: 898m, Secondly, there is a strong focus on cash operating profits before goodwill amortisation generation.
The underlying financial strength rose by 22% to 131.4m 2002: 107.3m, of the business is reected by our excellent and net profits before taxation increased by cash ow, with 158m generated by operations 23% to 121.2m 2002: 98.3m.
Earnings per in the year, representing an operating profit to share before amortisation of goodwill grew by cash conversion rate of 120% 2002: 109%.
Operating cash Free cash ow increased from 25m in 2002 ow remains strong, rising by 35% to 158m, to 83m in 2003. and we have increased dividends by 33%.
Thirdly, when allocating capital for investment, Capita's strategy is to focus on its three core we seek to contain capital expenditure to a level stakeholders: building value for shareholders, which is commensurate with the growth in the delivering service excellence for customers business.
Our target is to maintain the Group's and supporting and creating opportunities capital expenditure at or below 4% of annual for our employees.
revenue, although there may be rare occasions when we exceed this where the financial strength 1.
Building value for shareholders of Capita can be used as a competitive advantage.
In 2003, we achieved this objective, with capital We believe that the UK BPO market will continue expenditure being 3.4% of annual revenue.
to develop in a structured and orderly way over the coming years.
Industry analysts are predicting Fourthly, we will continue with the strategy of 12% to 15% compound growth until at least periodically acquiring small to medium sized 2007.
Capita's vision is to develop our businesses which complement or extend our competitive advantage, building growth both current service offering.
We focus on enhancing organically and through selective acquisition our competitive position within our core with the objective of achieving double digit competencies and providing platforms for further compound growth in revenue and profit over growth, both within single service lines and the the next 5 years.
In building and strengthening broader multi-service outsourcing contracts.
the platform to deliver sustainable value for We will be very selective, only making acquisitions shareholders, we have a number of key measures at a price that adds value to Capita's of our progress.
shareholders and that is consistent with the objective of achieving an increasing return on capital for the Group.
Capita administers the scheme, aimed at keeping 16-19 year olds in full time education, on behalf of the DfES.
During the year we secured an additional contract with the DfES, for the administration of the Education Maintenance Allowance.
This contract contributed to the 615m of major contract wins secured during 2003.
ANOTHER STRONG YEAR ANOTHER RECORD PERFORMANCE 04 Capita Chairmans statement SUSTAINABLE LEADERSHIP POSITION IN A GROWING MARKET Paul Pindar, Chief Executive, pictured with Zarin Patel, Head of Revenue Management for the BBC.
Capita has administered TV Licensing, on behalf of the BBC, since 2002.
Our wider partnership with the BBC also involves the management and operation of the BBCs Information Service for viewers and listeners.
Our relationship with the BBC is a typical example of our multiple relationships with our customers.
