4 Chairmans Statement INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE THE QUOTED PORTFOLIO During the year under review, world stock markets At the year end, 271.5 million, or 39.7% of the continued to suffer from the fragility of the international portfolio, was held directly in quoted investments.
Although we suffered a further 103.9 million, or 15.2% of the portfolio, was reduction in our asset value over this period, we draw held in hedge and other funds which mainly invest in some comfort from the fact that we continued to quoted securities.
Taking these two categories together outperform the relevant indices by some margin.
A degree but excluding our holdings of government securities, of protection against these hostile conditions was some 54.9% of the portfolio was invested, either directly provided by our liquidity, the highly diversified nature of or indirectly, in quoted or other marketable securities.
the portfolio and our investments in asset classes which We aim to find outstanding investment managers who are less directly correlated to stock markets.
specialise in particular asset classes or geographical areas.
During the year to 31 March 2003, your Companys Some 170 million, or nearly two thirds of RITCPs net asset value per share decreased by 10.4%, from quoted portfolio of 271.5 million, is managed by twelve 483.4p to 433.3p before deducting the proposed external managers, whose details are set out on page 36. dividend.
Your Company has been an investor in selected hedge In contrast, over the same period, the Morgan Stanley funds since its incorporation in 1988.
This approach Capital International Index in Sterling, the FTSE Allallows our shareholders access to specialist money Share Index and the Investment Trust Net Assets Index managers whose funds are, in many cases, closed to new declined by 32.8%, 32.1% and 28.9% respectively.
Since its inception in 1988, RITCP has significantly outperformed these indices, as can be seen from the graph THE UNQUOTED PORTFOLIO on page 1.
Your Companys exposure to unquoted investments results The most recent net asset value per share at 13 May, either from investments made directly by RITCPs own after deducting the proposed dividend, was 460.8p.
management, or through investments in externally managed partnerships.
In total, some 168.4 million, or 24.6% of ASSET ALLOCATION the portfolio, was invested in this sector at the year end: Set out below is our asset allocation at the year end.
119.3 million, or 17.4%, through our own management and 49.1 million, or 7.2%, through our investments % of % of Portfolio at Portfolio at in limited partnerships managed by third parties.
31 March 31 March Our property investments, valued at 23.4 million, 2003 2002 or 3.4% of the portfolio, are concentrated in St Jamess Place, in central London and are valued every six months Quoted investments 39.7 38.7 by our professional advisers.
Hedge other funds 15.2 17.1 Unquoted investments 17.4 18.2 Private equity partnerships 7.2 7.0 CURRENCY EXPOSURE Government securities and liquidity 17.1 15.6 We aim to realign our currency exposure when we believe Property 3.4 3.4 it is appropriate, usually by way of hedging transactions, as can been seen from the tables on page 3.
During the year, Although the asset allocation within the portfolio has we reduced our US Dollar exposure further by hedging remained broadly unchanged over the past year, the almost entirely back into Sterling.
Consequently, although proportion of the portfolio invested in hedge other funds 41.8% of the portfolio at the year end was invested in US and our own directly held unquoted investments has Dollar-denominated assets, our actual US Dollar exposure slightly reduced.
was reduced to 1.9%, protecting us from the decline in the At the year end, 41.8% of the portfolio was invested currency.
in the USA, 22.6% in the UK, 11.8% in Germany, 5.5% in Similarly, we started the year with 18.9% of our Japan and 4.5% in the Netherlands, with the balance portfolio denominated in Euros, partly resulting from the of 13.8% in other countries.
investment of much of our liquidity in Euro-denominated government bonds.
In the second half of the year, RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chairmans Statement 5 anticipating a possible weakening of Sterling, we since the interim stage.
We are well placed to take diversified our currency exposure further by increasing advantage of these opportunities as they arise, by virtue of our Euro exposure to 30% at the year end and the liquidity which has been maintained within your establishing a 7% exposure to the Swiss Franc.
SHARE BUY-BACK RITCP did not buy back any shares for cancellation during Rothschild the year under review, as the share price remained at a 20 May 2003 relatively low discount to the underlying value for most of the relevant period.
In future, we will be prepared to use this facility in the light of market conditions and the level of the discount.
We shall therefore be seeking shareholders approval at this years AGM for the renewal of our buy-back facility.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND During the year under review, the Companys net assets reduced by 79 million, of which 85.5 million was attributable to capital, offset by a revenue profit of 6.5 million.
In the previous year, the net assets increased by 4.9 million, of which 1.3 million related to capital and 3.6 million to revenue.
These figures exclude taxation and the proposed dividend.
We are proposing to pay a dividend of 3.1p per share on 3 July 2003 to shareholders on the register at 6 June 2003, the same dividend as last year.
However, shareholders should be aware that this level of dividend might not be sustainable in future years.
As always, the focus of your Company is on achieving capital preservation and growth over a period of time.
OUTLOOK The last three years have been amongst the most difficult in living memory.
During the period, stock market indices have fallen sharply: the Morgan Stanley Capital International Index in Sterling by 47.2%, the FTSE AllShare Index by 44.2% and the Investment Trust Net Assets Index by 43.7%.
Over the same period, your Companys net asset value per share has declined by 15.5%.
In the context of these difficult conditions, we are not unhappy with our relative outperformance.
Looking to the future, we continue to be wary of markets generally, anticipating volatility in the face of recessionary pressures and a poor outlook for corporate earnings.
Nevertheless, after such an extended bear market, we are beginning to see opportunities to invest in companies at levels of valuation not seen for some years.
We have, in fact, increased the portfolios equity exposure by some 6% RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
