Chairmans Statement Your Board is determined to address the fundamental issues and requirements of the Company.
John Napier, Chairman This is my first opportunity, having service t, market share and been appointed Chairman in March competitive elements: 2003, to report formally on the the requirement of, and scope for, progress of your Company.
This year sustainable profit and has been one of significant change performance improvement: and for many aspects of the Company balance sheet issues, financial and has included: resources and capital considerations.
the appointment of a new Group The findings and actions arising from Chief Executive, Andy Haste, who this review are dealt with in more took up his role in April: detail in the Group CEOs Review.
changes to the Board, which The main outcomes were to: have involved the retirement of six identify a more coherent geographic non-executive directors and two and business t necessary to achieve executive directors: an improved combined operating additional to the appointment ratio COR and increased rate of of a new Chairman and Group return on investment over the Chief Executive, the appointment insurance cycle: of a new Chief Financial officer, use of expert external advisors, to George Culmer, new non-executive advise on best estimate provisions Chairmen of the Audit & Compliance in key risk areas and activities, and Remuneration Committees, particularly in the US: Edward Lea and John Maxwell identify any necessary restructuring respectively, and the appointment of costs and other one time costs of Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May expense reduction programmes as non-executive directors: needed to achieve the improved the progressive strengthening of rates of return required: the executive management team, strengthen our capital position with additional appointments at a vis a vis rating agencies and Group level in the areas of human regulatory requirements: resources, business processes, risk allow scope to grow the business and compliance, and changes in the in profitable areas and reduce the executive leadership of the US and use of quota share reinsurance: other areas: extend and continue a related a major emphasis on management disposal programme of non reporting and risk management core activities: processes with the intent of address the finance requirements reinforcing a management of the above elements with a rights performance and accountability issue which successfully raised a net culture: and 960m and had a 92% acceptance the execution of a fundamental level from shareholders: and review of the Company, which negotiate a three year bank loan sought to determine: facility totalling 400m.
the attractiveness and long term viability of our business operations, The number of required changes and taking into account product and actions summarised in outline above 2 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next ongoing disposal of non core The year 2004 will be a demanding activities: and year for the management and all the transformation of the employees as we actively seek to management culture.
continue our business and profit improvement plans and performance It is against that background, where enhancement programmes.
As already much depends upon the quality, energy announced, there will be some loss and performance of management, of employment due to the effect of that the Board has considered our profit improvement plans and the effectiveness of current senior relocation.
It is necessary to balance management incentive schemes.
It is that against the challenge for ongoing necessary to ensure management is operations to achieve a COR of 100% properly rewarded for performance on average over the cycle.
It is both and its objectives are closely aligned ambitious, and necessary, to restore the with the interests of shareholders.
reputation of, and investor confidence The Remuneration Committee and in, the Company.
Royal & SunAlliance Board have recommended that we has a united and strengthened Board develop an interim two year scheme, and executive team which, together following a first year of significant with an improved balance sheet and management progress, under which actions taken to date, allows complete senior executives will be granted an focus on the tasks ahead which, additional award of shares, which although substantial, are considered have a market value equal to 33% deliverable, however such an outcome of their annual bonus, and which will cannot be guaranteed.
be deferred for a period of two years.
In these circumstances, the Board In addition, we propose those shares has considered carefully the question will be increased by a 1 to 3 ratio reect the interplay of two sets of of dividend and dividend policy.
Our based on performance at mean to factors relating to the Company.
policy is to at least maintain the current upper decile level compared to TSR The first has been the determination of dividend, after adjustment for the performance on two comparator your Board to address the fundamental rights issue, in real terms.
Long term incentive payments issues and requirements of the be introducing a dividend scrip will be made on the achievement Company.
The second is to deal with alternative to shareholders, the enabling of measurable objectives linked an overhang of a number of legacy resolution for which will be put to to the improved performance and issues related to past decisions and shareholders at our Annual Meeting.
poor management of the business, The final dividend recommended is In terms of medium term prospects, made more crucial and time critical by 2.9p per share, which brings the total although significant progress has been delay and adverse external stock market dividend per share for the year, after made in 2003, there are still substantial changes and industry circumstances.
adjustment for the rights issue, to management tasks to complete We have made encouraging progress 4.5p per share.
In the short run in 2003 with a Group operating result Finally, I would like to thank on the the improved equity markets will based on longer term investment Boards behalf all management and give some benefit but there is now return LTIR of 140m.
However, the staff for their efforts in carrying out reduced exposure and less upside full result was impacted by prior year the Strategic Review and helping to to be gained from this area.
As expected, the develop and support the necessary largest element of this, 563m, relates event, benets from changes in change programmes and processes to the use of some of the proceeds investment value need to be assessed essential to improve performance and from the rights issue to strengthen separately from the need to focus on results.
We look forward to continued our claims reserves and includes 96m the detail of the performance of the progress in 2004. of the 300m contingent liability for underlying businesses.
future adverse claims development There is also the question of established at the nine months.
We longer term changing regulatory and continue to carry the remaining 200m accounting requirements, on which contingent liability and will review the industry is involved in active the need to establish this as a claims discussion.
There is debate over reserve each quarter, as indicated at detail and timings, partly driven by the John Napier, Chairman the third quarter results.
However, Financial Services Authority FSA and the stronger balance sheet and better European legislation.
A strengthened financial basis of the Company is, FSA is keen to progress those areas in itself, not a solution to all the and other aspects related to consumer management issues.
It allows a greater protection generally.
Given the long executive focus on key management term need, and increased demand, areas, principally: for effective insurance services in a developing world economy, such the implementation of the developments, which both improve strategic business plan: policyholder confidence and are related restructuring and profit sustainable by the industry, should improvement programmes to deliver be welcome.
They should also help the combined ratio targets: risk assessment and maintain and improve the essential compliance processes: role insurance plays in the modern improved accounting, capital economy.
If these outcomes, particularly management and management sustainability, are not achieved, there reporting processes: could be difficulties for the industry.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 3 previous contents next Group CEOs Industry Overview The concern for the industry must be to ensure that pricing and terms and conditions are at a level where there is an expectation of underwriting profit every year, and not just at the top of the cycle.
2003 was another challenging year profit every year, and not just at the supports the view that disease claims for the insurance industry worldwide.
generally need to be resolved outside There were fewer catastrophe losses Against this background, it was the insurance mechanism and we and investment markets began to encouraging that, even as price continue to play a full and active recover but changes in regulation, competition began to reappear in the role at industry level to achieve legacy issues such as asbestos, legal short tail classes, particularly the large that separation and to support the reforms, both proposed and enacted, individually underwritten commercial associated workstreams that the and the reappearance of some price property risks, there did not seem UK government has instigated, for competition, were all factors that to be a wholesale disregard for the example to reduce legal costs and needed to be addressed.
disciplines learnt over the last few improve the use of rehabilitation.
The FTSE 100 climbed nearly 12% years.
We have seen comments from The need to nd a new mechanism over the year and the Dow Jones companies, from brokers and from to deal with asbestos related claims by over 21%, giving some uplift to Lloyds, that all point to continued was also recognised in the US during balance sheets that had been hit hard basing of underwriting in economic 2003 and various attempts were over the last few years.
However, an reality during the important January made to bring legislation acceptable estimated US$160bn was lost from 2004 renewal season.
to all the interested parties before the global insurance industrys balance 2003 was another year of the US Congress.
The US insurance sheets due to equity weakness significant reserve strengthening industry also increased pressure on between the end of 2000 and 2003, across the industry, including by government to nd a way of resolving mostly hitting European insurers who many of the largest household names the tort crisis resulting from the historically have held much higher in Europe and the US.
These reserve compensation culture that is endemic levels of equities than their US additions were driven largely by in the US.
It needs to be recognised counterparts, and the capital lost will developments in claims for long that this is becoming an increasing take years to rebuild.
These factors, tail liabilities such as those relating problem in the UK, and potentially which were compounded by the third to asbestos.
Given the continued the rest of Europe, with significant year running of more downgrades depleted state of many companies potential economic implications.
than upgrades being actioned by balance sheets, it is not surprising Changes in regulation are by no the major rating agencies in the UK that the year also saw a large number means a new thing for the industry and US, combined to ensure that of companies raise capital, both in but the pace and scale of change has companies could not afford to lose the equity and debt markets.
increased signicantly over the last pricing discipline.
Current negotiations in the UK on couple of years.
During 2003 we The low interest rate environment the future of employers liability were preparing for the introduction was another factor in the continued covers, are giving consideration to of several consultation papers, CP181, underwriting discipline of companies separating the long tail disease claims.
For a number of years From the insurers perspective, we do among others, all of which have major now companies have needed to need this split, as it is extremely implications for the capital structure of underwrite for profit with no ability difficult to predict the number and companies and the levels of capital to hide poor performance behind cost of long tail claims and, as a that they will require to operate going profits earned on investments.
The result, they are very capital intensive.
I give a fuller list of the concern for the industry must be to This is demonstrated by the consultation papers released over the ensure that pricing and terms and introduction in the UK under Solvency last couple of years on page 15, and conditions are at a level where there 1 of additional capital charges for the impact of regulation is a major is an expectation of underwriting liability business.
Royal & SunAlliance topic within this years report.
4 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next Group CEOs Review My goal is to make Royal & SunAlliance a stronger, higher performing business, one that delivers to shareholders and customers and one that employees can be proud of.
Andy Haste, Group CEO I joined as Group Chief Executive addressing issues of business in April 2003 with one main goal, to weakness, poor performance and make Royal & SunAlliance a stronger, longer term strategic uncertainties, higher performing business, one that and strengthening the balance sheet.
delivers to shareholders and customers As a result of the review we and one that employees can again rened our strategy in some areas, be proud of.
but it reinforced our determination I had no doubt about the size to concentrate upon general insurance.
of the challenge ahead and my We are creating a more focussed immediate priorities were to: business with commercial lines get a rm grip on the business continuing to be weighted more and our key operational and towards property and the focal financial issues: point for personal lines being deliver on the commitments we direct distribution and selected made to reshape the Group, achieve intermediated lines.
In personal lines, significant business improvements in particular, we are driving down and cost efficiencies, and strengthen the cost of delivery.
our capital position: Successful general insurance establish a rigorous review process operations need to have a significant to constantly reassess our plans position in their markets to be and progress in view of changing able to lead and inuence trends business and or market conditions: in underwriting, pricing and claims embed a strong performance actions.
This has implications for culture throughout the organisation, where we operate, what business focussing on delivery, results and we write and how we do business.
personal accountability: and We have also identied further start looking ahead at what else operating improvements in we should be doing to ensure underwriting, claims and expenses we deliver improved performance and set in place a programme of and results.
Review of business Changes throughout 2003 As a first step, I led a thorough review In practice this meant that a lot of of our businesses.
This assessed each things changed in 2003.
Three of market by profitability and our long the most significant areas that have term ability to compete, and covered been reshaped: structure and business the geographic and business mix focus: management: and the balance we need going forward.
It gave sheet, I detail in later sections.
me a comprehensive picture of our businesses and markets and their Structure and business focus long term viability and attractiveness.
Weve made fundamental changes to It told me that we had an the structure and organisation of the opportunity to build on our stronger Group.
A lot of this has come about market positions and improve the as a result of the actions that we are scale and quality of services by taking to resolve problem areas and focussing on areas of market strength, maximise on our areas of strength.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 5 previous contents next Group CEOs Review continued Looking at the shape of the business the US result will be challenged in The operational review, and our strategic review identied three 2004 as we transition the business to the actions that we have already distinct areas: good, consistent its smaller size but still have to carry a performers, with profitable growth significant level of expenses associated successfully taken within the potential: businesses that still need with the business that we are shedding.
business, lead us to believe that work but have realisable potential: Weve made a significant number and nally businesses that simply of disposals over the year outside going forward we can achieve a cant be made to work for us within the US and withdrawn from writing combined ratio of 100% on average the resources we are willing to a number of lines of business detail allocate to turning them around.
is given in the Operating Reviews and across the insurance cycle for our Many of our businesses are good, the Group Finance Directors Report.
we can see a clear growth story for Two important milestones were them and will be targeting capital the successful Initial Public Offering to allow them to do just that.
of our businesses in Australia and The smaller operations in New Zealand in May and the sale International include a number of RSUI, our US specialty lines insurer, of good businesses and all these which completed in July.
Taken operations will be managed for together with the disposal of our profit and to maximise shareholder UK healthcare operation they meant value.
We expect that over time the that we freed up some 1bn of capital countries in which we operate will during the second quarter of the be fewer in number as we refocus year, improving our risk based capital our International portfolio.
position to a surplus of 300m by Two sizeable parts of our business the end of that quarter, from a deficit that havent performed well over the of some 700m at the end of 2002, last couple of years are UK personal and further improving our regulatory Group general business and Canada.
Both are improving capital position.
operating result based but neither is producing the required on LTIR by Region m results or returns yet.
The shape of Capital both businesses will alter with more By September it was clear that, despite of a focus on direct business, and these substantial improvements in our 278 intermediated business being cut capital base, we needed to do more to 96 back to profitable arrangements.
allow us to realise our potential and, The story for our US operations is with our interim results, we launched 469 different and Ive taken action.
For the a rights issue to raise 960m, net 108 last few years, the Group had been of expenses.
trying to position our US commercial Along with our existing capital 35 lines business to compete effectively surplus and that to be released from 35 but had been constrained by a our ongoing premium reduction plans, 0 restricted capital position and adverse the rights issue was needed to allow reserve developments in certain us to: effect the restructuring of our business lines.
It had become clear US business: establish further general General insurance premium that it would be difficult for much of insurance loss reserves following work by Region m the US commercial lines business to undertaken by Tillinghast-Towers Perrin produce adequate returns, over a long Tillinghast : grow further in selected 2,822 term period, commensurate with the business lines: and reduce the Munich risk prole and capital requirements Re quota share from 2004 onwards.
1,167 of the business that was being written.
1,090 As a result, in September we Reserving actions announced plans to restructure the One of the major uses of funds from 765 US business including a renewal the rights issue, along with our existing 503 rights arrangement with The Travelers capital surplus, was to strengthen Indemnity Company for our standard our reserves to address legacy issues.
283 personal lines business and the In September we indicated that work majority of our commercial lines by the consulting actuaries Tillinghast business, which together accounted had identied that, to reach their for net premiums of around 1bn.
best estimate, we needed to increase UK During the last quarter of the year, our reserves.
we entered into a number of other In accordance with our desire Scandinavia renewal rights deals for further parts to reduce risk and uncertainty, we US of the US business, which together determined to take a more prudent International accounted for net premiums of over position on reserving and to ensure Canada $200m 110m in 2002. greater consistency in reserving Australia New Zealand The remaining business in the US practice across the Group.
principally comprises our non standard We continued to review our claims personal motor line.
We estimate that provisions taking into account the total US premium income will reduce to work that we had detailed in the around $500m from nearly 2bn rights issue prospectus, which had in 2002.
Our intention throughout led us to indicate provisions increases is to ensure that we keep a tight grip of up to 800m.
Following this on all aspects of the restructuring review, in November we announced process.
What is clear, however, is that that we had established an additional 6 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next 500m of claims provisions and taken and while were carrying the earned account of the balance of 300m as benefit of those rate increases a contingent liability for adverse claims through 2005. development that may arise in the future.
This 300m was in excess Results of local best estimates and was not The reserving actions that have been attributable to any specic operation.
necessary, plus lower investment returns Net of attributable tax, this is and our disposal programme, have deducted in determining our risk impacted our result for the year and, based capital position.
With our year at 140m, the Group operating result end results we indicated that some based on longer term investment 96m of this contingent liability has return is 86m down from the now been set up as additional claims 2002 equivalent.
provisions, bringing the total prior For the year, the UK, which is our year claims provision increases post most significant market and key to the review to 563m, on an exchange our success going forward, produced rate adjusted basis.
The balance of a COR of 99.4% in total.
contingent liability at the end of 2003 UK commercial had another strong, was 200m.
The contingent liability profitable year with an underwriting will be reviewed quarterly and used profit of 77m and a COR of 95.8%.
to address future adverse claims Reserve strengthening of 50m in the development such as the outcome second half added nearly 3 points to of court cases when it arises.
Overall the UK personal result for Targets 2003 of 103.7% was nearly 7 points The operational review, and the actions better than 2002, but there is still that we have already successfully taken work to do.
The underwriting result General insurance net within the business, lead us to believe improved by 93m but the actions premiums written m that going forward we can achieve that have been taken throughout the 2003 6,630 a combined operating ratio COR of year to improve the overall quality of 2002 100% on average across the insurance the book, primarily within personal 8,635 cycle for our ongoing businesses.
intermediated, reduced premium by 2001 8,813 The results of the ongoing business are 28% resulting in an expense overhang, stated after excluding the results of which hit the COR.
Personal 2000 8,372 business which has been disposed intermediated produced a COR of 1999 7,159 of, transferred or closed.
This target 105.5% for the year mainly reecting emphasises the importance of the increase in subsidence related claims Weather and large concentration on those markets where that resulted from the hot, dry summer.
TM losses m we can focus on underwriting and claims MORE TH N performed slightly and achieve value for those actions.
better at 103.2%, again showing the 2003 766 TM The new target has given a very effect of subsidence.
MORE TH N s 2002 strong message to all our underwriters.
expense ratio was over 10 points 855 Its also appropriate in the current better than in 2002 at 27.7%.
2001 917 environment of low investment returns.
In Scandinavia, we produced CORs The results of our ongoing of below 100% across the board in 2000 838 businesses in 2003 support our view Denmark and in Swedish commercial, 1999 802 that this target is achievable, with helped by benign weather throughout COR below 100% everywhere except the year.
Swedish personal lines UK personal lines and Canada.
In the produced a COR of 108.0% for the UK as a whole, we produced a COR year primarily following the third year was an improvement on 2002, of 94.8%.
Looking at the ongoing quarter prior year claims provision but still needs work.
The underwriting commercial lines this looks even increases of 10m for motor third result for the year improved by stronger with a COR of 91.2% and party liability.
We are continuing to C$166m to a loss of C$42m.
Personal an underwriting profit of 157m.
UK achieve rate driven premium growth.
lines managed a COR of 100.9% for personal intermediated lines produced The 140.5% US COR is primarily the year with household producing TM a COR of 101.1%, while MORE TH N a result of provisions for deteriorating substantially better results than motor achieved 103.2%, both having been prior year claims following the with a 95.3% COR.
The commercial impacted by subsidence.
These provisions result wasnt as good, partly as a result business in the US, which is primarily amounted to 518m, after adjusting of the expense overhang following the non standard auto, produced a COR for exchange rate movements, mainly 34% reduction in premium levels as of 94.2%, Scandinavia 99.3% and in workers compensation and general we restructured a number of portfolios International ex Canada 94.8%.
Together these reserve of business.
Reserve strengthening Premium rates continued to rise movements added around 31 points added around 1 point to the combined during 2003, although we have seen to the COR.
The poor results of the Facilities a slow down in the overall level of International Businesses, excluding Association FA involuntary pool increase for some lines.
We are seeing Canada, produced an underwriting business also impacted the result.
Our this trend continue in 2004 with some profit of 36m for the year and a share of the FA business is determined rates beginning to plateau.
This is after we strip by our overall market share and this have to do is deliver the sustainable out the results of our Australian and will have reduced in 2004.
Johnson, expense, claims and underwriting our direct business, which now accounts New Zealand operations prior to the savings that weve targeted while for some 25% of business in Canada, IPO in May.
the environment remains favourable continued to perform strongly.
Canadas COR of 102.9% for the Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 7 previous contents next Group CEOs Review continued there are some areas where we need the Regions more direction and Were going to become a Company to upgrade skills.
We wont shy away foster a more open and two way with a culture where going the from investing in this area, both in communication process.
terms of training and, where One thing that is clear from the extra mile and tackling difficult appropriate, additional recruitment.
review is that we will no longer issues head on is standard practice.
I believe require the sort of space that our in setting clear objectives and current head ofce in Berkeley Square Out of this will come a decisive demanding targets, and making provides.
We will vacate the building organisation that can act more people fully accountable for delivery.
as soon as it has been disposed of.
I also believe in a strong performance quickly and with more energy.
management culture where feedback Regulatory environment is candid and where people take The regulation of the industry responsibility for the consequences continued to develop throughout of their actions.
I have been working 2003 and confirmed that a wide with the senior management team to range of changes to solvency drive this strong performance culture requirements in the UK can be throughout the Group.
Work is ongoing to forge a much This has obvious implications for our stronger link between remuneration capital position and is discussed in and performance against targets.
more detail in the Group Finance Perhaps most importantly, the culture Directors report.
of the Group has changed with all In January 2004 we saw the staff recognising that improving the introduction of Solvency 1.
We expect performance of the business is their this to reduce our regulatory solvency personal responsibility and that by around 400m.
We have been accountability for their actions granted a waiver, valid until Shareholder communication will be a fact of life going forward.
September 2004, by the FSA that will Ive already discussed many of the Royal & SunAlliance is going to enable us to continue to recognise developments in the stockmarket, be a more demanding, but more 400m of benefit in respect of our and particularly for the insurance rewarding, place to work precisely discounted claims reserves in our sector, in my industry overview.
the sort of environment that I believe solvency calculation.
All waivers are One area of particular interest appeals to the highly motivated, high for a limited period.
We currently and importance to me, however, quality people that I want to have expect to apply for a renewal when is improving our communication working with me.
We already have Although our strategic focus is meetings with the majority of our Role of the Centre on general insurance, the proposals institutional shareholders, particularly One of my specic areas of review within CP207, Treating With profits those with a holding of more than has been the role of the Corporate Customers Fairly, are being addressed 1% of the Group.
Well also be Centre and the way that it interacts by our UK Life operation and the showcasing our major operations with the rest of the Group.
What principles that we will adopt will be as part of our quarterly reporting was clear to me was that the hands published in 2004. process during the year to let off model that had been in use for We no longer actively operate shareholders see for themselves a number of years simply wasnt in the UK long term savings market, the changes that are happening working effectively.
in particular having ceased to offer to our way of doing business.
There is now a dened process advice, but recognise the importance for interaction between the Corporate of restoring consumer confidence Management Centre and the operating companies and acknowledge the value of I have made new appointments to my based on clear accountabilities and well improving education in the eld management team and substantially dened operating principles.
changed some of the existing roles.
have been identied, including the As part of our preparations for One particularly significant change production of both strategic and the introduction of CP204 and as is the appointment of George Culmer detailed operating plans.
An engaging agged in the rights issue prospectus as Chief Financial officer, succeeding process of monitoring and interactive we are reviewing our debt capital Julian Hance.
George has joined us quarterly review meetings now forms position to ensure that it has the from Zurich Financial Services and a consistent review process through optimal structure for the prospective his successful track record and proven which corrective action can be applied.
ability to take the tough decisions In addition, reporting lines have that bring about change mean been set up between Corporate Centre Risk that he is ideally suited to join functions and operating business Within the full Annual Report & Royal & SunAlliance.
functions including finance, human Accounts, the Risk Management resources HR, risk, information section of the Corporate Governance Performance management systems IS and communications, Report includes considerable detail As Ive already said, turning the which now report on a secondary line on our approach to Group Risks.
Company around isnt just a question basis to the central function heads.
Rightly, much of the activity has of rationalising where we do business Primary reporting remains at a Regional centred on the risks inherent in and what business we do, key to it all level, but central function heads are transacting insurance business and is how we do it.
consulted on recruitment and retention ensuring that we have rigorous and It is also important to determine of key staff, objective setting, appraisal consistent processes around the world where we have the skills and capability and give input to the application of for both rating risks and for working to ensure high levels of performance policy and remuneration decisions.
with our customers to improve their in our chosen businesses and where These processes give the Corporate risk proles.
we have gaps to be addressed.
Clearly, Centre more control, but also give All of our premium rates are set 8 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next 3 B a l a n c s e u s c o h o e f i e s 1 t s t e n 0 a i s u r 0 b & e d r p u t e c e Strategic Review Reshaping For The Future on the basis of achieving technical price, ie charging the right price for the right risk, but beyond that, we have spent a great deal of time identifying the customers who provide the best returns for us and then ensuring that we have the right products and services to satisfy their needs.
We also spend considerable time and energy on surveying and managing the risks that our clients face, providing technical support and advice on loss prevention and mitigation, as well as Health and Looking ahead We are focussing on three areas Safety issues.
During 2004, I have a number to help reshape our Group for The FSA has recently published of major priorities, two of which future growth: reforms that will require all insurers boil down to delivering on promises to undertake an Internal Capital that weve made to the market.
The ICA requires Firstly, we have major operational 1 Our structure & business focus a rm to maintain adequate financial improvements and restructuring plans We have reviewed the business to make resources and to demonstrate that its to nish implementing.
Annualised sure we are writing the right risks in own systems and controls are able expense savings are already running the right markets, and at the right price to identify the major sources of risk.
at 144m, well on the way to our To meet this requirement, we have 270m target, which gives me established the Capital and Risk confidence well succeed.
The US Management Transformation CRMT restructuring is making good progress 2 Our management programme, which is now designing but will be a key operational challenge There has been significant change and implementing an economic for us in 2004. to the management team since capital model that creates value Secondly, were going to become Andy Hastes appointment across the organisation.
This will be a Company with a culture where achieved by upgrading our risk going the extra mile and tackling management processes and difficult issues head on is standard capabilities by using risk as a basis practice.
Out of this will come a 3 Our balance sheet for capital allocation.
The programme decisive organisation that can act Weve strengthened the balance sheet will have global scope and apply to more quickly and with more energy.
in a number of ways, including the general and life business.
A robust I made a promise to investors that rights issue, but challenges remain and comprehensive capital and risk in future we wouldnt just talk delivery management framework that is wed actually do it.
Much has been consistent across the Group will done in 2003 but I wont pretend that enable us to achieve full Prudential we are achieving everything that we Sourcebook compliance.
Various can, and should, yet.
workstreams have been created to facilitate this process and the CRMT programme is closely linked to a number of other Corporate Centre and Regional initiatives.
Andy Haste, Group CEO Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 9 previous contents next u 2 r n r t M S i a c 1 n b a e g e n m m e t n o t C Reshaping Our Structure & Business Focus 1 The review had many findings but one of the most important was its conrmation that our well established strategy of focussing on general insurance was the right thing for the Group.
However, because of its signicance strategy and performance objectives in to the Group, for financial reporting a number of areas.
purposes, it continued to be identied separately throughout 2003.
Were going to continue to weight The International businesses will be our commercial business towards managed for profit and to maximise property lines historically theyre less shareholder value but we do expect volatile and have been consistently the number of countries that we more profitable.
operate in will continue to reduce as we refocus the portfolio.
Were going to focus more on direct Over the last 12 months weve distribution of personal lines well reduced our countries of operation still work with intermediaries but well from 41 to 35: three years ago we be much more disciplined about only When I was appointed as were in 52.
That doesnt mean that continuing the profitable relationships.
Group CEO I immediately set weve lost the ability to transact and In the UK this has meant reducing about reviewing the business service business worldwide we our general intermediary agents from to make sure that we were not retain the ability to do that in over 22,500 in 1999 to 2,500 at the end only operating in the right markets 130 countries through our network of 2003, contributing to loss ratios but that we were writing and partners.
A list of the major disposals on ongoing motor business being retaining the right risks.
between 2001 and January 2004 can nearly 35% better than those on be found on page 30. discontinued business.
Structure We progressively changed our Business focus Were going to drive down the cost of structure over the second half of 2003 The review had many findings but one doing business, particularly in personal to reect the developments in our of the most important was its lines.
During 2003 we reduced MORE TM geographic focus.
Following the IPO conrmation that our well established TH N s expense ratio by 10 points to of our operations in Australia and strategy of focussing on general 27.7% it still needs to improve but New Zealand, the sale and renewal insurance was the right thing for the its moved a long way in the right rights deals for much of our US Group.
During 2003 we continued to direction.
Our target remains 20-25% business and the other disposals in sell life businesses, including the by the end of 2005 and below 20% the Americas, the old groupings of operation in Chile, to free up capital after that.
Americas, Asia Pacic and EMEA were to reinvest in the general business.
We needed a We also completed the IPO of our To ensure that we are at the forefront structure that reected where the general and life insurance operations of developments, we are implementing focus of our effort and growth plans in Australia and New Zealand during a operational excellence in underwriting was going to be in future.
time of challenging equity market and claims management through The major change arising from this conditions.
This unlocked significant the introduction of tighter processes was the creation of International, value that, certainly in the couple of and new systems.
Good progress is which during most of 2003 grouped years leading up to the IPO, had not being made.
Weve selected our all of our businesses outside the UK, been reected in the share price at the implementation partner and together US, Canada and Scandinavia.
The sale of the UK we have nearly 500 people mobilised are predominantly small operations Healthcare & Assistance business also full time onto the programme.
but include a number of good achieved good value from the sale of businesses.
Towards the end of the a specialist business that was not Were seeking to ensure that the risk year, our Canadian operation began to strategic to us.
prole of our business is appropriate report through the International line.
That said, we did need to rene the for our capital base.
The nature and 10 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next Strategic Review Product mix %ofpremium Personal Motor Household Other Commercial Motor 2003 2002 Property Liability Other Geographical split % of premium UK Scandinavia US International Canada 2003 2002 Australia New Zealand amount of risk that we underwrite in our different markets needs to reect a proper balance between risk and profitability.
RSUI, the US specialty lines operation that we sold in July 2003, while profitable, had a seasonally uneven risk prole and Distribution represented about 60% of our US % of premium operations Florida wind event exposure.
Selling the business UK personal signicantly reduced the volatility and Intermediated catastrophe exposure of our US Corporate partner business as well as freeing up nearly 2003 2002 Direct 200m of risk based capital.
Were instilling a performance management culture by improving management controls and introducing new review procedures that have a clear focus on accountability and that UK commercial target delivery.
During 2004 were Intermediated going to be introducing stronger and Direct 2003 2002 more direct links between the level of remuneration, including any salary increase, bonus and share options, that employees get and their contribution to the achievement of the Groups overall performance goals.
Other personal Intermediated Corporate partner 2003 2002 Direct Other commercial Intermediated Direct 2003 2002 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 11 previous contents next Reshaping Our Management 2 Looking at the Group as a whole, one of my priorities is to develop a stronger performance culture.
Part of that is making sure we have in place the right people with the right capabilities.
Group CEO Andy Haste Group Finance Director Julian Hance until 2 April 2004 Chief Financial officer George Culmer from 1 May 2004 International Simon Lee Scandinavia Jens Erik Christensen UK Duncan Boyle During 2003 Ive made a number US of new appointments to my senior John Tighe team and substantially changed Corporate Communications some of the existing roles.
I now Richard Emmott have a stronger combination of existing and new, quality and Corporate Secretarial & Legal experience to draw upon.
Jan Miller Global Relationships I have made senior management Tony Latham changes in our key markets, including appointing John Tighe as CEO of our Group Audit US operations in October 2003.
Neil Macmillan John will be responsible for the transition arrangements of the Group HR personal and commercial lines Paul Whittaker business to Travelers and also for Group Risk managing the remaining US business Rick Hudson going forward.
He has accepted the role of leading the business through Strategic Change & IS what will clearly be challenging times.
Andy Nelson We have also introduced a new Regional structure and I appointed Simon Lee as CEO of the newly established International Businesses.
He has strong experience of managing a broad spread of international businesses having worked with New appointment NatWest in a variety of international roles based in the UK and overseas.
Existing role With the establishment of Scandinavia as a discrete entity the role of Jens Erik Christensen changed to focus Changed role exclusively on our businesses there.
12 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next Strategic Review Management team composition New appointment Existing role Changed role Early in 2004 we announced the the Corporate Centre.
As illustrated, nine out of 12 of my appointment of George Culmer as The new role for HR is to develop a team are either new appointments or Chief Financial officer.
George has top quartile leadership team to deliver have seen major changes to their role extensive experience in the general top level performance.
We now have a insurance industry with Zurich and focussed on raising leadership stronger mix of experience and Prudential and of major change capability and performance and capability some from within the management programmes.
driving the culture change necessary insurance industry, some new to the The Group Finance team will also be to make us more customer focussed, sector.
But this doesnt mean that strengthened by the addition of operationally effective and I wont make further changes.
As the a new Group Financial Controller, Pat accountable for delivery.
Group itself changes and evolves, there Regan, previously Finance and Claims A new Group Risk structure will is always the possibility that people Director of AXAs UK general insurance institute, and ensure compliance with, may choose to opt out and move on, business.
A key focus will be to ensure rules and guidelines for the whole or that new people may need to be rigorous control, planning and result range of business risk and will be brought in.
It depends on many delivery, working closely with the strengthened by an upgraded different factors changing business businesses.
The capital management regulatory and compliance risk priorities, the need to upgrade skills function has also been strengthened.
capability to cover large scale projects, in certain areas, attitude, and even With our increased focus on driving such as Prudential Sourcebook.
Then, of course, forward the restructuring programme In January 2004, I appointed Neil theres the question of performance.
and developing a stronger performance Macmillan as Group Chief Auditor.
Neil culture, we have dedicated senior reports directly to me, and also to the Performance management management resource to both these Group Audit & Compliance I judge my teams performance no vitally important areas.
I appointed Committee, and is responsible for differently from the way the Board Andy Nelson, Director, Strategic providing the Board and the executive judges mine.
Looking at the Group Change and IS: and Paul Whittaker, team with independent assurance on as a whole, one of my priorities is Group HR Director, to head these up.
the risk management and control to develop a stronger performance Andy has broad experience of change processes across the Group.
Part of that is making sure management in both a consultancy audit has a critical role to play in we have in place the right people capacity and inhouse roles coupled ensuring that the major business risks with the right capabilities.
with 20 years experience in IT.
I have that we face as an organisation are I will be working with Paul worked with Paul for several years.
Whittaker to drive us towards a was an integral part of teams that In the communications arena, performance culture and away from helped me refocus and restructure Richard Emmotts priorities are to the entitlement culture that is evident other businesses and improve ensure that the external reputation of in some parts of the business.
Paul was previously in HR the Group develops in parallel with the focus will be from the top down.
roles with AXA and GE Capital.
process of change and also to ensure Everyone will be included.
Strategic change and IS combines that our internal communications There has to be meaningful programme and change management processes engage our people properly differentiation so that people who with information technology and while we are going through a period perform well are properly rewarded services.
A primary focus is to drive of major change.
for their efforts and people who dont and monitor progress for the change All of my direct reports are members are not.
Youll hear a lot more about programmes.
The Group IS team of the Executive Committee which is our efforts to develop a culture of works closely with country Chief the senior executive decision making continuous improvement and rigorous Information Ofcers to set strategy, body for the Group and which I lead.
And you implement IT security and share best is responsible for all business strategies will also see a stronger focus on the practices.
It also provides support to and operational policies.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 13 previous contents next Reshaping Our Balance Sheet 3 The regulatory changes being introduced will affect the whole insurance industry and they have some major implications.
exposure to equities during the first position and so we took action.
half of the year with the aggregate During the second half of the year value of holdings in the general we established further provisions for insurance operations at the end of adverse claims development of 563m 2003 being approximately 1.15bn, on an exchange adjusted basis.
The in line with our policy target.
contingent liability of 300m that we We also continue to explore ways identied at the third quarter reduced to release capital from our UK Life to 200m at the year end.
Following changes in the The detailed analysis of the UK with Phoenix Fund, we are now able to profits funds looked at the solvency of recognise 321m of surplus held in the funds in light of the introduction that fund as available to support of the realistic methodology by the general business.
FSA and the waivers weve already Since I joined, one of my major The actions taken to restructure our been granted.
Those waivers have focusses has been the balance US operations should, over time, allowed us to cancel the financial sheet I wanted to make sure that release capital as the premium income reinsurance treaty and to lapse the I fully understood the risks both in that we write reduces and claims future profits waiver that we had in and to the business.
A lot of provisions are settled.
Weve concluded that the actions were taken during 2003 to release will be subject to compliance existing capital, together with an strengthen the capital position but with US regulatory requirements.
amount of up to 200m available we also identied a number of We also negotiated a new 400m under the existing contingent loan areas that required additional three year banking facility, repaying arrangements, should be sufficient to capital support.
meet solvency requirements in a range elsewhere, there was also of adverse scenarios, eg interest rate significant development on the Capital usage and exchange rate uctuation.
regulatory front, which will have As explained in the rights issue However, the funds are also exposed consequences for the balance prospectus, there were a number of to certain unresolved regulatory issues, sheet and our capital position areas where we needed to use the including CP207, Treating With profits going forward.
We ended the year capital that we had raised or released.
Policyholders Fairly, that could increase in a stronger position but the When I joined the Group I the capital requirements by up to work is by no means complete.
commissioned an independent review 300m above this level.
by Tillinghast of our general insurance We also reviewed our FRS17 pension Capital additions loss or claims reserves and of the fund position.
We made additional There were two main ways in capital requirements and risks of our contributions in the UK of 50m net which we increased our capital UK with profits life funds.
of tax in 2003 and will put aside 30m during the year: The general insurance review covered net of tax annually for the next nine we were successful in implementing our total claims reserves in the UK, US, years.
Were also introducing employee our disposal programme during Scandinavia, Canada and Ireland as at contributions in April 2004.
We 2003, releasing over 1bn of risk 31 March 2003.
Although, as continue to believe that this route is based capital: and confirmed by Tillinghast, the existing valid, given the long term nature of we completed the one for one rights Group reserves at 30 June were within pension liabilities.
The US restructuring issue in October, raising 960m.
a reasonable range of estimates, charge deducted from risk based capital But these werent the only areas of Tillinghasts review concluded that there allows for funding a large element of activity.
We have been active in was a shortfall between our reserves the US FRS17 pension liability.
matching our investment assets to our and their best estimate as of 31 March.
We wanted to reduce the level of our liabilities.
We continued to reduce our I wanted to be in a more prudent quota share arrangement, from the end 14 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next Strategic Review Movement in total capital Total capital 31 December 2002 4,221m 140 Group operating result based on LTIR Reorganisation costs 202 Net impact of EV derecognition 491 Profits on disposal of subsidiaries 16 Other items 243 Taxation 95 Exchange 12 Rights issue net of costs 960 Dividends 120 Equity minority interests in subsidiaries 59 Total capital 31 December 2003 4,115m of 2003, to retain more of the profits Regulation being generated at this point in the We discuss the implications for our insurance cycle.
The lower level in 2004 balance sheet of changes in regulation means that the capital that we need to in detail elsewhere.
The fact is that the support the amount of premium we changes being introduced will affect write will increase, even if premium the whole insurance industry they doesnt grow from 2003 levels.
arent specic to the Group and they And of course there are some good, have some major implications.
To give profitable areas of the business where some idea of the scale of the potential we are aiming to grow and that will change, Ive listed the most important need capital to support that growth.
ones of the last two years below.
Some of these, but by no means all, have already been implemented.
I dont expect the pace of regulatory development to slow any time soon.
Consultation Paper Title CP136 May 2002 Individual capital adequacy standards CP142 July 2002 Operational risk systems and controls CP144 July 2002 A new regulatory approach to insurance rms use of financial engineering CP145 July 2002 The interim sourcebook: insurers and friendly societies Guidance on insurance group solvency CP181 April 2003 The interim prudential sourcebooks for Insurers and Friendly Societies: Implementation of the Solvency 1 Directives CP190 July 2003 Enhanced capital requirements and individual capital assessments for non-life insurers CP195 August 2003 Enhanced capital requirements and individual capital assessments for life insurers CP200 September 2003 Regulation of long term care CP201 September 2003 Implementation of the insurance mediation directive for long term insurance business CP202 September 2003 Insurance regulatory reporting: changes to the publicly available annual return for insurers CP204 October 2003 Financial groups CP207 December 2003 Treating with profits policyholders fairly Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 15 previous contents next Operating Review UK UK with intermediaries will be either as a sole supplier or on a limited panel as m 2003 2002 a preferred partner.
We will do this via General business a new low cost operational platform Net premiums written 2,849 3,421 and leveraging our existing superior 1 Underwriting result 21 148 servicing capability.
The UK underwriting teams are General business result 309 216 developing more modern systems to Return on capital employed 18% 11% support underwriters in the business Life business units.
These new systems will help us Net premiums written 908 955 to improve the quality of decision Life business result 111 110 making around risk acceptance and to 2 deliver more sophisticated, actuarially Shareholders interest 539 338 derived, prices.
They will also 1 As announced at our year end results on complement our activity to continually 11 March 2004.
The major difference between this and the breakdown on page 88 relates raise underwriting standards and will to reorganisation costs.
provide us with a more effective risk 2 The shareholders interest includes the contingent management environment.
We are making a major investment in our claims core competency, which Overview of major strategies will drive significant benets through Over the next three to four years we reduced leakage ie whenever more is will be continuing to invest in our paid in settlement of a claim than is business to deliver significant changes necessary, through delays, lack of in our processes and systems.
We process consistency or human error, believe that these changes will further increased efficiency and an improved improve our core areas of underwriting, and more consistent customer service.
claims and customer management, This is a step change with new claims while improving efficiency.
management strategies, reengineered UK Commercial aims to differentiate processes and a streamlined structure.
itself in the market through focussed Our customer proposition will be value propositions for specic customer centred around an enhanced rapid and broker segments.
We will response capability and the further concentrate on our three customer development of our core claims and facing segments of small, corporate specialist and large operations, each and risk solutions, supported by with a focus on taking active control a series of specialist businesses of claims and speed of settlement.
including ProFin, marine and We are developing proactive engineering.
We aim to be market strategies for each claim type with a leading in customer management, focussed and segmented structure to underwriting and claims effectiveness.
drive the critical components of claims In UK Personal, we intend to create management.
We will adopt a state of sustainable value by distributing the the art technology platform allowing us core products of motor, household to improve efficiency and effectiveness.
TM and pet through MORE TH N and Our culture will be focussed on driving selected intermediaries.
Our relationship the outcome of claims through 16 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next accountability and performance.
Claims We will continue to manage the A primary focus for UK claims in 2003 closed Life company efficiently to has been the household account.
release capital while continuing to A range of initiatives have been treat customers fairly.
The closed funds undertaken including: a streamlined are managed, along with the Groups building repair network supported by other funds, by ISIS, a top ten the training programme HOUSE: a investment house, and our outsourcing range of new commodity supply arrangement with Unisys has ensured arrangements: and a revised best practice that quality service standards are in handling methodology for subsidence place, as well as ensuring administration claims.
In total the programme is costs per policy are xed.
forecast to deliver annualised benets We will continue to improve of 38m from 2004. our overall customer management The establishment of specialist performance, in particular focussing and large claims centres of excellence on understanding the value of during 2003 has ensured that the customers and ensuring that we proper skills and focus can be applied are delivering robust propositions to all complex and high value claims.
to our chosen customer segments.
In addition, this segmented approach to large claims handling has allowed Business progress against strategies the development of consistent best The UK is our biggest business and practice and an entrepreneurial will continue to be key to the success approach to settlement that is of the Group going forward.
supported by advanced technical We have moved to a single and negotiation skills training.
company approach that allows us to drive efficiency benets through our Commercial demonstrating the success of our UK wide business services and has UK Commercial continues to perform investment in the brand over the improved technical capabilities strongly, with current year results last few years.
It is rapidly being through single underwriting and benefiting from the programme of recognised as one that stands out claims operations.
actions over the last few years, as well from the competition.
Core product We have worked hard to deliver as 2003s benign weather.
Actions in sales are up by over 35% compared to on the commitments we made in previous years include exits from 2002 and are more than double 2001 2002 and 2003 to: reshape the UK inwards reinsurance, financial solutions levels: within that our web sales in business: achieve significant business and certain specialist business areas, 2003 were more than double those in improvements and cost efficiencies: including offshore energy and credit.
We now generate one in three and strengthen our capital position.
We have also reshaped our proposition sales from our existing customer base, Work to embed a high performance to large and multinational clients in the and a similar ratio of sales from culture throughout the UK continues.
We will continue to 2003 has also seen a marked comprehensive review of the key take action to reduce the cost base improvement in customer analysis segments and market positioning has and have reduced the expense ratio to techniques, which is allowing us to helped confirm and shape our strategy.
27.7% this year from 38.2% in 2002. tailor propositions and focus effort We will leverage our underwriting Our distribution strategy is to grow TM on our most valuable customers and and claims expertise, while continuing our MORE TH N business without future prospects.
to improve our overall customer compromising on profitability.
We continue to enhance Underwriting the tools and control procedures that Personal intermediated The underwriting function was given support our technical pricing strategy.
In the intermediated market we have a more separate and independent However, profit remains our key driver segmented our business and exited a role within the UK business in 2003 and in order to protect it we will number of unprofitable relationships.
and was charged with continuing sacrifice revenue if necessary.
We will only continue to operate in to develop underwriting as a core Building on the UK wide customer those segments and with those competence of the Company.
In management initiatives, we have intermediaries where we believe particular, they are working to ensure developed a positive win back we can consistently deliver our that, as a minimum, we are achieving campaign in our middle market target returns.
technical price ie that we are charging corporate segment, and have also A combination of planned exits the right price for the right risk.
reorganised in order to create a fully from certain areas of business, and Activity has focussed on instilling a customer aligned business model.
This rating increases across all of our more rigorous control and monitoring has seen the creation of risk solutions, intermediated channels, has reduced system over all underwriting processes designed to enable the delivery of motor exposures signicantly.
For while at the same time delivering more appropriate propositions to the large example, our motor exposures with sophisticated pricing, risk acceptance customer segment, complemented by brand brokers have dropped from and risk assessment techniques to our the retention of marine, ProFin and around 350,000 at the end of 1999, underwriters in both personal and engineering specialist businesses, to around 50,000 at the end of 2003. commercial lines.
Our 160 strong team which continue to distribute products During 2004 household exposures will of surveyors continues to add value for across all customer segments.
also fall as the HBoS exit works our customers, managing and improving through the account.
risk by undertaking over 33,000 surveys Personal lines We also withdrew from creditor, a year and issuing and implementing extended warranty and DMI business, TM risk improvement programmes.
The MORE TH N which resulted in a much simpler, TM benefit of this work will ultimately be MORE TH N continues to produce more focussed, business model.
reected in improved loss ratios.
excellent levels of new business, The reshaping of the book is, Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 17 previous contents next Operating Review continued same right to expect good service as estate, exiting over 50 properties UK continued investors in funds open to new during 2003, achieving the long term business, and we are extremely benets of more efficient space pleased with the clear improvements utilisation and lower overall costs.
in customer service that have resulted In terms of our information systems from this outsourcing.
IS infrastructure, we have been However, the Life businesss through an extensive exercise which financial and regulatory responsibilities has resulted in a major outsourcing of remain rmly with the Group and we our applications development services have established a senior Life in March 2004, which will enhance governance team to manage the our ability to meet the future needs relationship with Unisys and to ensure of our business and customers.
that these financial, regulatory and We have begun the process of customer responsibilities are met.
implementing a UK desktop In March 2003, we were notied by transformation programme.
This is the Financial Services Authority FSA a major change initiative delivering of a 950,000 ne in relation to significant benets to our business deficiencies in our mortgage through performance improvements, endowment sales process between cost savings, exible working, and January 1997 and July 1999.
The FSA more efficient and effective acknowledged that we have devoted application support.
substantial resources to our mortgage The creation of our Human endowment review and have acted Resources HR services centre has proactively in the case of short term helped us to improve our response contracts.
However, the shortcomings to the needs of our people at a time identied are a matter of much regret.
This has been particularly however, now substantially complete important in the context of the and we intend to selectively grow the UK change programme restructures of our personal lines business from this base.
We have We have made significant progress and claims businesses.
already taken action to adjust our on our performance improvements, As a result of the actions we took expenses following the reduction in delivering on the promises we made in 2003, and have planned for 2004, the size of this book, for example by to the market.
Much of this work has we have already reduced the number exiting four of the seven locations involved restructuring, producing of roles in the UK by approximately supporting intermediated business, but annualised savings of around 95m, 5,000 and plan a further 1,000 in recognise that we still have more to and improving underperforming areas 2004.
This includes the TUPE transfer do.
Plans to continue to drive down of our business.
We have embarked of 3,700 roles to other organisations, our expense ratio via our strategic on a programme to create new claims, around 900 of which we expect to change programme include: systems policy and underwriting platforms transfer in 2004.
We have fully rationalisation onto a single platform, for the majority of our UK general consulted with union representatives giving productivity and service insurance business.
The programme on these matters and this will advantages: an offshore pilot: and will result in further significant continue.
Wherever possible, affected driving down our support services cost.
improvements in efficiency in claims employees will be offered and policy processing, to the extent redeployment opportunities within the Life that, as part of the increased expense Group and a proportion will be Early in 2003 we announced that, savings target for the Group, we are achieved through natural turnover.
effective from 1 May, Unisys, one of now aiming for a total annualised We continue to work in partnership the UKs leading life and pensions target in excess of 200m from the with the Unions and have reached an outsourcing specialists, would UK.
We are also targeting significant agreement with them on the HR undertake the processing and improvements in claims and practices that we will follow as we administration of the life and pension underwriting leakage.
implement the UK change programme.
policies of our closed UK Life business.
We have met and exceeded our Policyholders in closed funds have the targets for rationalising our property Market and economic conditions 2003 has proven to be another challenging year in the insurance sector.
We have seen a market with We do not underestimate the scale a rm rating environment, the prospect of increased regulation and of the challenges we face, but have the continuing pressure of increasing made a good start in transforming regulatory capital requirements.
Within UK Commercial, we the UK business into a modern, well continued to achieve price increases controlled, competitive vehicle, making throughout 2003 and, while the market is showing some signs of good returns for shareholders.
softening, with the return of some competition in the motor and property classes of business, we expect liability business in particular to continue to attract rate increases in the light of strong claims ination.
Our business is well placed because of our strong broker relationships and diversied book of business.
In addition, our 18 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next strategy of not following the market drive down expenses and pursue our has been clearly articulated both stated aim of improving our internally and out in the marketplace.
operational efficiency and exibility, We are prepared to sacrifice premium while delivering excellent service to in order to maintain profitability and our customers.
We expect to see the build long term sustainability.
benefit of the action we have taken Within UK Personal, the hot and on pricing in 2003 ow through in dry summer resulted in an increase in 2004.
We will also continue to rene subsidence claims, but this was almost our pricing and account rationalisation completely offset by the benign techniques throughout 2004. weather experienced throughout the We will pursue aggressively our goal year.
We are determined to write of profitably growing our MORE TM profitable business and will continue TH N business.
to take the actions necessary to deliver We do not underestimate the scale appropriate returns for our of the challenges we face, but have shareholders.
To this end, we have made a good start in transforming the continued to lead the way with the UK business into a modern, well price increases that the industry needs controlled, competitive vehicle, in order to generate long term making good returns for shareholders.
This is particularly the case in the household market.
Acquisitions, disposals and investments During 2003 we sold our Healthcare & Assistance business to a management buy out team and sold the renewal rights on our UK credit insurance 2003 premium income business.
We also sold our UK estate by business segment m agency operations, Sequence, and our online employee benets business, youatwork.
Following the UK reduction in our shareholding of 1,183 Global Aerospace from 50% to 10%, we reduced our interest in the 1,666 1,666 aerospace insurance pool that it manages, decreasing risk aggregation for the Group and reducing 2003 premium by around 110m.
Scandinavia During the year we also announced our intention to stop underwriting 618 offshore energy business and withdrew from creditor, extended 549 549 warranty and DMI business.
All of these disposals and exits were part of our plan to focus the UK business on our strategically core areas, US where we have the critical mass to take an inuential position in profitable 460 segments.
The rationalisation is now substantially complete.
630 630 Outlook We aim to build a UK general insurance business that delivers a COR International of 100% on average across the cycle 370 on ongoing business, and where business is priced at its technical price, 395 395 as a minimum.
We remain focussed on reducing underwriting and claims leakage and achieving high business retention rates.
Canada Within UK Commercial, we will continue with our pricing strategy and 374 our drive for increased claims efficiency and improved customer 129 129 management throughout 2004.
We have identied the key customers to retain and win back through our target trades work and are confident this will give an opportunity for Personal selected growth at the right price.
Excluding Australia New Zealand and Commercial In UK Personal, we will continue to Group Re.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 19 previous contents next
