x CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement It has been a difficult year for equity markets.
The housing market appears vulnerable to at least a benchmark index which we use as a guide 50% slowdown whilst employment growth has been FTSEAll Share and 50% World Ex UK in sterling supported by significant government expenditure terms fell by 32.4%.
Our performance was very which is leading to a sharp rise in the public sector similar and our net asset value per share fell by borrowing requirement.
Our stock selection was generally A year ago I observed that we had become good in relative terms, most notably in the core UK increasingly worried by the prospects for the market, but overall performance was hindered by German economy.
Sadly our concerns have been the impact of long-term borrowings in declining justified and have indeed intensified in recent markets.
A detailed analysis can be found in the months.
The deteriorating health of the German attribution table on page 8. financial system is of particular concern.
We see no The Board is recommending a final dividend of evidence that this issue is being addressed with the 4.50p per share, making a total proposed dividend necessary seriousness.
Elsewhere in Europe prospects for the year of 6.60p.
This is an increase of 5.6%, are less malignant but confidence is lacking and which is well above inflation.
This is the 21st current economic data is far from reassuring.
consecutive real increase in the Companys The Japanese economy has endured another year of dividend.
The dividend is comfortably covered by slow growth and deflation.
This comes as little earnings of 7.43p.
Earnings exceeded our prior surprise to us or to the investment community as the expectations despite the income consequences of a hopes initially invested in Mr Koizumis government modest shift away from UK equities.
Much of the Japanese corporate sector struggles valiantly to cope with the consequences of such political and financial inertia Investment Background but the environment remains discouraging for The past year has been one of the most difficult for investors.
equity markets in the history of your Company.
Coming as it does as the most severe of three In pleasing contrast we are delighted to see evidence consecutive years of decline there has been of continued economic improvements in many significant damage to investor confidence.
The most dramatic progress has Continuing weakness in the global economy and been seen in China which has become ever more lingering concerns over questionable corporate crucial to global manufacturing industry and even to results and ethics have weakened the appetite for overall global growth prospects.
We would also point equities that was such a feature of the 1990s.
The to the continuing recovery of Russia and the growing international tensions culminating in the comparative health of the Indian economy as rare but recent war in Iraq have hindered efforts to rebuild vital signs of hope in the global economy.
The corporate and consumer confidence from gaining increasing importance of these economies is a theme momentum.
that we expect to return to in the years ahead.
The American economy has seen the greatest effort Investment Activity to reignite growth.
Substantial monetary and fiscal stimulus did indeed revive consumer spirits for much Equities of 2002 but their impact appears to be waning.
In aggregate we have made net sales of 28m Both the Federal Reserve and the Administration will during the year.
This has been needed in order to be extremely keen to see growth accelerate over the fund share repurchases.
Our view of market next year but they will have comparatively little prospects has improved slightly as the year has scope for further supportive actions.
This owes little to enthusiasm over current weakness of the dollar recognises the difficulties of economic prospects but more to valuations gradually this situation and can be expected to continue.
becoming more attractive as the markets have fallen.
The British economy appeared to be comparatively The most significant change in the geographical well-placed twelve months ago.
In terms of GDP balance of the portfolio has been the 11m increase growth this has proved to be the case as a buoyant in the emerging markets portfolio.
Combined with an housing market has supported consumption increase of 10m in the Asia Pacific region this sufficiently to offset the apparently endless troubles of underlines our determination to take advantage of the manufacturing sector.
We do, however, have the dynamic economic growth that can be found in several concerns about the medium term outlook.
We are delighted that we can find THE SCOTTISH MORTGAGE AND TRUST PLC 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT more companies in these markets with appealing 285.5p.
To help to balance the costs of these individual prospects and better standards of long-term borrowings we have added to our corporate governance than in the past.
We now portfolio of high quality fixed interest bonds and have more of our assets invested in Russia 23m we expect to continue with this approach.
than in Germany 16m, a situation that would have been unthinkable not long ago.
Our Scottish Mortgage shares and marketing European portfolio has performed worse than the activity markets.
We will be looking for an improvement here in the year ahead.
The investment trust industry Traditional investment trusts suffered unjustifiably We have made net sales of 29m in Britain.
As bad publicity during the year owing to the severe noted above our confidence in the fundamental problems of many split capital trusts.
We have health of the British economy has faded in the last encouraged the Managers and the Association of year but this has been somewhat offset by Investment Trust Companies AITC to work hard to increasingly attractive equity valuations.
Yields on make it clear that solidly established and properly British equities have climbed first towards, and run general trusts are sound investments that are briefly above, those available on gilts.
very different from many structurally flawed split capital trusts.
The Board fully supports the efforts of Fixed interest the AITC and the Financial Services Authority to bring the whole industry into line with best We have made an increase in our fixed interest practice.
Results have been good over the year in both absolute and relative terms.
This is The Board was delighted that our Managers were particularly pleasing as the Managers have been awarded the AITC sponsored Investment Week encouraged by the Board to improve their Investment Trust Group of the Year Award for resources and skills in this area.
For the first time 2002. we are including a detailed review of the fixed interest portfolio in this report page 18.
Marketing initiatives During the year the Managers carried out a Repurchase of shares marketing plan which had been agreed and We have bought back 11.2m shares in the course approved by the Board.
The ISA, PEP and Share of the year at a cost of 31m.
This has enhanced Plan materials were improved with a view to NAV by 0.8%.
We are disappointed that our widening their appeal.
A targeted advertising consistent willingness to consider buybacks is not campaign and supporting internet initiatives were having a more discernible impact on the discount put in place.
A Childrens Savings Plan which is to NAV.
We will, however, be asking low cost, flexible and straight-forward was shareholders for permission to renew the mandate successfully launched in October.
Parents and to repurchase up to a further 15% of the then grandparents can create a nest egg for children outstanding shares at the forthcoming AGM.
either by regular monthly savings or with a lump sum invested in Scottish Mortgage which we believe is an ideal long term destination for such Balance sheet funds.
Contact details are given on the inside back In the course of the year we have renewed our cover of this report.
The Plan was very well short-term yen borrowings of 23m.
We still received by the press and is enjoying healthy consider this to be an attractive source of funding inflows in its infancy.
as we believe that eventually the yen is likely to weaken as a consequence of attempts to resuscitate the Japanese economy.
Name adjustment We have made no changes to our long term debt.
We would like to propose a small alteration in the As a consequence of the sharp falls in markets name from The Scottish Mortgage and Trust PLC these liabilities are now equivalent to 14.5% of to Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC.
If our debentures are valued at current change seeks to clarify the nature of the Company market rates rather than at par the net asset value for the retail investor market.
A resolution to this would fall to 268.0p against an unadjusted effect will be moved at the AGM.
6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Board and the AGM It has been a privilege to have been your Chairman over the past 10 years.
I shall be retiring at the conclusion of the AGM having reached the age of 70.
I would like to thank all my colleagues on the Board for their unfailing help and dedication over the past decade.
In recent years the demands placed on Directors have risen considerably and I feel fortunate to have enjoyed such steadfast support from my Board.
The Board would like to propose Sir Donald MacKay as my successor.
His experience and expertise has already proved valuable to the Company and I have every confidence in recommending him as your new Chairman.
I would like to extend an invitation to all shareholders to attend the AGM on 3 July in Edinburgh.
Details of the AGM can be found on pages 45 and 46 of this report.
Outlook The last three years have been a harsh period for economies and equities.
Despite this we are able to find companies in many parts of the world which are coping admirably with demanding conditions and whose share prices have fallen to historically attractive levels.
Yields on equities are close to those on government bonds in many countries including Britain.
Whilst we must be aware of the dangers of the current situation we are also encouraged by the attractive opportunities that are available to your Company.
In wishing my successor good fortune for the year ahead, I trust we shall see an uplift in the markets from which the Company is well positioned to benefit.
Sanderson of Bowden 7 May 2003 THE SCOTTISH MORTGAGE AND TRUST PLC 7
