directors report chairmans statement Our objective is to provide the core investment for those who wish to build up a long-term store of increasing value On the long term record, a 3% gross yield and a 1.9% Consumers have built up extreme levels of debt which will increase in net assets will probably look unexceptional, but have to be repaid at some time: similarly governments are this result comes after a stormy year and at a time when letting trade and budget deficits expand and the time bomb interest rates have fallen to their lowest levels for around of underfunded pensions, which overhangs many personal, half a century.
At political and economic levels high risks corporate and national balance sheets, continues to tick.
have been taken, causing extreme volatility in capital The last year has seen much talk and many words directed markets world-wide.
Valuations have gyrated, with the UK towards solving the UK savings gap.
Ironically, this has led FTSE All-Share Index rising 28% from the low to which it to confusion, reasons for individuals to delay savings and fell in March in the face of extreme uncertainty, lack of investment decisions and, for private sector employers, an investment and much distressed selling.
However, after opportunity to close defined benefit pension schemes.
two years of falling share prices we are pleased to report a These factors, together with the Iraq war, loss of confidence rise, albeit small, in assets, income, and stock price.
in the stock market and the possibility of recession, reduced We attribute these rises, and our above average long term the flow of savings into equities.
Alliance Trust Savings ATS performance throughout the last 10 years and beyond, to has not been immune from this trend, but the lower rate of our concentration on quality, income-generating net cash inflow is more than explained by a fall in lump investments combined with our tight control on costs and a sum single premium subscriptions.
The rationale for philosophy of diversification and risk containment.
These disciplined long term saving in these times of uncertainty are fundamental tenets of our investment philosophy and it and high volatility remains powerful.
Regular flows of direct is encouraging to see that they are again being more widely debits and income reinvestment into ATS continue to recognised as a core requirement of a long term portfolio.
24% of the Companys stock is now owned The fall in our discount partly reflects this recognition, through its PEPs, ISAs, pension and investment plans.
especially against the background of a decline in UK savings This year, David Deards joined the Board as finance director and an equity market which can sometimes look more like and Christopher Masters as a non-executive director.
They a lottery than a serious long term investment portal.
have already proved their worth and we are asking We see an improvement in the future investment scene stockholders to approve these appointments at the AGM, governments everywhere are trying to boost economic together with adjustments to the non-executive directors growth, miscreant companies have been encouraged to put fees as explained in the Remuneration Report.
their houses in order and low interest rates are helping to I extend a warm invitation to you to join us at Discovery stimulate corporate activity.
We expect to be fully invested Point, Dundee on 24 October.
should values and yields remain attractive.
However, substantial risks do remain and we are maintaining our relatively cautious approach to stock selection and have no expensive gearing to shoulder in this environment.
