Chairmans Statement Results Profit on ordinary activities for 2003 after exceptional items and before taxation amounted to 93.0 million 2002: 41.4 million with earnings per share of 51.2p 2002: 16.3p.
Earnings per share diluted under IIMR guidelines are 10.7p vs 15.3p.
The profits of the Ongoing Group for 2003, after deducting minority interests, but before taxation and nonoperating exceptional items and goodwill, amounted to 22.1 million 2002: 21.2 million.
Paul Selway-Swift, Chairman The Ongoing Group excludes Carnegie, and the terminated activities of Property and Factors.
Overview A more detailed breakdown of the profits is set out on page 33.
The operating environment in 2003 was difficult due to the low levels of confidence in the The Boards policy is to base dividend payments markets at the beginning of the year.
Throughout by reference to the after tax earnings of the this period our businesses were resilient.
In the Ongoing Group plus dividends receivable from second half of the year the markets were more Carnegie.
Accordingly the Board is proposing a confident, and we successfully placed most of our final dividend of 3.5p, making a total for the year stake in Carnegie.
I am pleased that overall the of 6.0p, which is covered 1.5 times on this basis.
At the year end the Group was in a satisfactory position, The Board is also proposing a final special and, equally important, we are in a strong dividend of 26.0p.
This arises from our strong position to take advantage of selected growth cash position following the sale of the major part opportunities during the year ahead.
of our stake in Carnegie, and the raising of 50 million by way of a subordinated bond.
This final special dividend is in addition to the interim The Ongoing Group special dividend of 6.5p, which followed the tax For the early part of 2003 share markets were refund of 12.9 million referred to in my depressed, with the FTSE 100 recording a low of statement covering the first half of the year.
We 3287 on 12 March 2003, but recovering in the will, of course, keep this position under constant second half to close the year at 4477.
Accordingly shareholders will receive the the second half of the year helped the profits of following dividends in respect of 2003: the investment management business, though the Interim Final Total overall profits for the year were adversely From Ongoing Operations 2.5p 3.5p 6.0p affected due to the difficult first half.
Under the Special 6.5p 26.0p 32.5p circumstances I believe that a profit of 4.2 9.0p 29.5p 38.5p million from investment management is encouraging even though it is less than that of 2002.
Our banking and asset finance businesses produced overall profits for the year of 22.4 million split as to 14.6 million from UK banking, 2.8 million from offshore banking and 5 million from asset finance.
This was an acceptable result for a group of our size given the difficulties experienced by financial markets earlier in the year.
Further details and comments are contained in the Chief Executives Review of Activities on page 8.
Report and Accounts 2003 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 5 Chairmans Statement continued businesses of UK banking, offshore banking and Carnegie and Tier 2 Capital investment management respectively.
During the I am pleased to report that we succeeded in year Jonathan Spence previously deputy head of achieving two strategic goals last year.
In UK banking was appointed as head of our asset November, we disposed of almost all of our stake finance business.
in Carnegie, realising gross proceeds of 98 million and a net profit of 67 million.
This Our aim remains to create shareholder value by leaves us with a residual stake of 4.6% of growing our businesses both organically, and by Carnegie, valued on 24 February 2004 at 20 acquisition when attractive opportunities arise.
I million, which we intend to dispose of in due believe we are well positioned as an independent, course.
During November we also raised 50 well capitalised, provider of a range of financial million through a 16 year subordinated bond at services to individuals and to the smaller 7.5% per annum interest.
This money was raised corporate customer.
Indeed, as many small by our UK banking subsidiary, and the bond is companies exit these businesses, our listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
The independent, service driven approach will, I money raised was used to repay borrowings that believe, make us more attractive for businesses the bank had from other group companies thus and teams to join our Group.
increasing the cash resources held outside of the bank by 40 million, and to increase the banks Composition of the Board own capital position by 10 million.
This Michael Gibbins, who joined the Board in 1998, subordinated bond is treated by the Regulator as retired as Group Finance Director and Chief Tier 2 capital.
Accordingly it counts in our Operating Officer of your Group at the year end, capital ratios, but it also provides an element of and Tony Shearer joined in July to replace gearing, which should, over time, improve Michael.
Sir Harry Djanogly, who had been a returns to shareholders by making our balance Non-Executive Director since 1987, retired in sheet more efficient.
April 2003 and Richard Bernays and Sarah Rutherford joined the Board as Non-Executive Position at Year End Directors in March and April respectively.
I The two aforementioned events leave us well would like to thank Michael and Harry for their provided for in terms of both capital and contributions.
I also thank everybody at Singer & liquidity.
At the Group level, after paying the Friedlander, and in particular John Hodson, for final proposed dividend, we will still have cash all their help in my first year as your Chairman.
resources of some 110 million, while our proforma Group Risk Asset Ratio will be 21.1%.
Outlook The Group is therefore well capitalised, and in a The operating environment for our Group has position to expand as and when there are improved from last year and we are optimistic for attractive opportunities so to do.
there has been a considerable shift in market sentiment making such expansion more probable across our businesses than over the previous three years.
We have recognised the expansion of our ongoing business by separating our asset finance business from banking activity to create four distinct Paul Selway-Swift, Chairman businesses.
Charles Price, Rob James, and 26 February 2004 Richard Killingbeck continue to head up our 6 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003
