Chairmans Statement excellence in CSR and was ranked in the top quartile of BITCs With its strong order book and first CSR Index.
This Index attracted 122 entries, including many of the UKs leading companies.
focus on growing markets in which it holds well balanced positions, the The Groups commitment to Health and Safety remains paramount and we have continued to work hard to improve Group expects to deliver healthy our own performance and that of our industry by working earnings growth in 2004 and beyond.
with others to develop and implement best practice.
In 2003, the Groups Accident Frequency Rate was down to its lowest ever level, a performance that we expect to rank with the best in our industry.
This was overshadowed by the tragic rail accident on the West Coast Main Line in February 2004, in which four of our employees were killed and three injured.
While this accident remains the subject of formal independent investigations, it would be inappropriate to comment on it.
However, the deep sense of shock and sadness felt by all our people throughout the Group has redoubled our commitment to Health and Safety.
Our challenge is to continue to turn this absolute commitment into further real and measurable progress, so that our people can work safely wherever they are.
In line with the confidence I expressed in the Report and Accounts for the year ending 2002, I can now report that Carillion has already put in place the measures necessary to report against the recommendations of the Higgs review as adopted in the revised Combined Code, which will come into force for the financial year ending 31 December 2004.
The Group has continued to develop strong positions in its key I am pleased to report that Carillion met the objective in my growth markets to maintain its order book at around 5 billion 2003 interim report to shareholders of delivering full-year profit and build its largest ever pipeline of probable orders worth before tax, goodwill and exceptional items of not less than the around 2.5 billion, despite the loss of valuable rail maintenance 50.2 million achieved in 2002, despite the cost overrun on contracts following Network Rails surprise decision to take rail maintenance in-house.
Even without this maintenance work, the Nottingham Express Transit NET project and substantial the Group will continue to have a substantial rail infrastructure unavoidable increases in pensions and insurance costs.
business with opportunities for growth in the UK and in Scandinavia, following the acquisition of Swedish Rail Systems The Group also made an exceptional net profit of 11.2 million in 2003. on its first PPP equity sale, the first in a planned programme of such sales to create a sustainable new profit stream.
One third The Group has also significantly strengthened its ability to deliver of the profit from this sale is being returned to shareholders by its strategy for growth, having completed its restructuring to way of a dividend.
The Boards current intention is to continue create three new market focused businesses Health, Transport to return a proportion of the profit from future equity sales to and Business Services and disposed of four more non-core shareholders, whilst re-investing in new PPP projects to generate businesses.
Therefore, with its strong order book and focus on growing The Groups performance in 2003 demonstrates the benefits markets in which it holds well-balanced positions, the Group of its consistent and effective strategy for growth and its expects to deliver healthy earnings growth in 2004 and beyond.
relentless focus on cost reduction and performance improvement.
Equally, the Groups continued prosperity stems from the skills The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend and commitment of all our people and the culture of success of 3.475 pence per share, making the total ordinary dividend that has been developed throughout the business.
The Board for the year 5.05 pence, an increase of 5.2 per cent on 2002. recognises that our people are an important differentiator and In addition, a dividend of 1.7 pence per share will be paid in we are grateful for the contributions made by everyone in respect of the exceptional profit arising from the first sale of Carillion to its success.
The final ordinary dividend and special dividend will be paid together on 25 June 2004 to shareholders on the The risk profile of the Groups activities has changed significantly register at close of business on 30 April 2004. over the last three years, following the introduction of new risk management criteria that govern project selection, bidding and delivery.
This resulted in the Group withdrawing in 2002 from bidding for further light rapid transit projects such as NET, because the procurement model for such projects does not meet these new criteria.
Today, the Groups UK civil engineering activities are focused exclusively on heavy rail and major road projects, where it has a track record of delivering more reliable earnings.
Sir Neville Simms Chairman, 10 March 2004 The leading role the Group has taken on Corporate Social Responsibility CSR has also made a significant contribution to risk management as well as to the value of the Carillion brand.
This was recognised in 2003 when Carillion received Business in the Communitys BITC Company of the Year award for 03 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
