Chairmans Statement We have delivered another strong performance.
Not only did our business succeed in making up for the uncertain economic start to 2003, we went on to achieve strong growth over the previous year, underlining the progress we are making towards our goal of leading the way in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Performance is my top priority.
This However, we recognise that there are a Operating profit rose 22 per cent years results are evidence of the number of places where we have to $1,542 million compared with strength and focus of our management opportunities to build a bigger presence: $1,262 million in 2002 team and the performance culture that examples are China, South Africa and is developing throughout the Group.
We will continue to Net revenue increased to consider acquisitions but we are very $4,753 million, up 5 per cent disciplined in our approach.
It is notable that Standard Chartered Normalised Earnings Per Share delivered a 37 per cent increase in at 89.6 cents, up 20 per cent During the year, the Group created a Total Shareholder Return last year, the range of opportunities in new markets highest of the major UK banks.
Normalised Return on Equity and we will move these forward in 2004. increased to 15.3 per cent A changing world The economic climate has improved Last summer we returned to South Africa Recommended final dividend with the award of a banking licence and significantly.
We have entered 2004 with per share up 10.6 per cent to the acquisition of the digital financial a strengthening world economy and 36.49 cents, making 52 cents services company 20twenty.
We took increasing business confidence.
There for the year a 9.8 per cent stake in Koram, are signs of vibrant economic growth in our major markets for the year ahead.
South Koreas sixth largest bank, for $154 million.
We were the first The Asian economies are out-performing international bank to be awarded a and China is particularly strong.
In Iraq, we play is having a major impact across Asia, a leading role in the consortium running boosting intra-regional trade.
Hong the Trade Bank of Iraq.
We recently Kong, in particular, has benefited from opened a new representative office measures China introduced to promote in Turkey.
In Hong Kong, we are in the process of World trade has continued to outstrip incorporating our local business.
This world growth, benefiting our core regions.
is a further sign of our commitment to Hong Kong and will help us take The economic cycle is proving beneficial advantage of closer economic integration for Africa and the Middle East.
combination of a weak dollar and global recovery is keeping oil and commodity In January 2004 we sold our 0.4 per prices high.
cent shareholding in Bank of Chinas subsidiary BOC Hong Kong, making a Of course, there are always shocks.
We will use these But in recent years, the world economy, funds to further organic growth in and our markets, have shown China.
These gains are not included in remarkable resilience to these shocks, our results for 2003. and policy makers have demonstrated Corporate governance their ability to respond quickly.
I would like to thank Ronnie Chan, Barry Positioned for growth Clare and Cob Stenham who retired Our plans are led by organic growth.
They made We are operating in dynamic markets a valuable contribution to the Board.
There is I also want to thank Sir Patrick Gillam, plenty of potential for us to grow in my predecessor, who played a key role these markets.
in making Standard Chartered the bank it is today.
4 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003 David Moir and Sir Ralph Robins will be enough to restore the sight of 56,000 Our business is in good shape and the retiring from the Board after the Annual people through our Seeing is Believing economic outlook across our markets is General Meeting on 11 May 2004. campaign.
In addition, all our staff were far more positive than 12 months ago.
educated on HIV AIDS, as part of our Living with HIV programme which was We also saw the appointment of two Standard Chartered has many options awarded the Global Business Coalition new non-executive directors: Paul for future growth, which, with disciplined Award for Business Excellence.
They both management, we look forward to have a wealth of talent to offer.
Our primary goal is to has great expertise in Asia, where Our Corporate Social Responsibility improve shareholder return.
she was Managing Partner Asia for initiatives made a major contribution to Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, and a the engagement of employees in our In 2003 we achieved record results.
We deep understanding of the regulatory business strategy and have enhanced our are determined to deliver again in 2004. environment there.
Paul is the Chairman reputation with our customers.
of Rio Tinto, one of the most successful The way ahead global mining companies.
In his former Standard Chartered continues to achieve position at Royal Dutch Shell he was CEO of the Groups global Oil strong profit growth in most of its Products business.
With the growth of our CBE businesses in India and the Middle East Bryan Sanderson, Chairman These changes to the Board bring us we have a more balanced platform.
closer in line with corporate governance 18 February 2004 guidelines under the new Combined Our brand has a long and positive Code, which came into effect in January association with our markets in Asia, 2004.
Further changes can be Africa and the Middle East.
anticipated as we continue to shape our Board in line with best practice.
It is my view that good performance and good governance reinforce each other.
We attach great importance to the high standards of governance we have achieved in all our markets and will ensure that these are sustained.
Corporate Social Responsibility Another aspect of good governance is good corporate citizenship.
This is essential for sustaining the growth of our business and for long-term profitability.
We have a responsibility in the type of business we do and to the communities we serve.
During 2003, the Groups 150th anniversary, we made substantial efforts to reinvest in the communities where we do business.
In a year in which we grew our operating profit by 22 per cent, our employees also raised $1.4 million,
