Carpetright plc Annual report and 2 accounts 2003 Chairmans statement UK and Southern Ireland operations Results I am pleased to report that the UK and Southern Ireland operations achieved another record profit on ordinary activities before taxation of 61.0 million for the 53 weeks to 3 May 2003, an increase of 16.2% compared to last year.
Sales for the year were 386.8 million, an increase of 7.0% on last year.
This growth was achieved from a like for like sales increase of 2.6%, sales from additional space of 2.7% with the remainder due to the impact of the additional trading week in the year.
As noted at the interim results in December, the extra trading week contributed 0.6 million of additional profit for the year.
The sales performance was very different over the two halves.
In the first half we achieved an excellent 5.1% increase in like for like sales, whilst in the second half like for like sales were flat, in line with the slow down seen across much of the market.
Despite this, we still outperformed the market in the period and we remain confident that our business proposition will enable us to continue to grow market share.
Gross margin improved by 1.6 percentage points to 59.6%.
This increase was weighted towards the second half in which we achieved a 2.5 percentage point improvement as we benefited from the full impact of our investment, innovation, buying scale and efficiencies.
We continue to make progress with the expansion of our in house and new five metre cutting facilities combined with We have achieved another strong set our drive to increase the average transaction value through a of results in the UK despite more difficult combination of product offering and improved service.
Costs as a percentage of sales trading conditions and have made grew by 1.0 percentage points to 45.0% during the year.
This is good progress on the first stage of our primarily a result of our investment in the five metre cutting facility and taking further cutting in house plans in Europe.
which in turn has supported some of the improvement in gross margin.
The launch of an extensive cost saving programme in the second half has offset the investment we continue to make in our service offering.
We expect the full benefits of this cost saving programme to come through in the current financial year.
Carpetright plc Annual report and 3 accounts 2003 Operating margin has increased Invested in price and promotions together with the interim dividend Lord Harris of Peckham by 0.6 percentage points to 15.0%, to drive market share, supported of 15p takes the total dividend Chairman a record for the business, and a by our Group sourcing synergies: for the year to 37p per share, an significant achievement in light of Reviewed and changed working increase of 12.1% on the prior the more difficult trading environment.
practices to improve sales focus, year.
The final dividend will be communication lines, reward paid on 26 September 2003 Stores structure and controls across to shareholders on the register We continue to actively manage the business.
on 12 September 2003. our property portfolio as we seek to infill certain gaps in our national Our objective in Europe is to create Finance and cash flow coverage.
We opened 30 stores a focused, market-leading, floor The Group generated an operating in the year and closed 26, giving covering specialist, which will sell cash flow of 72.6 million, an net space at the year end of increased volumes of product to the increase of 28.8% on last year.
3,411,000 sq ft. Property profits mass market and generate good At the end of the year the Group for the year were 3.8 million, which returns over a three to five year period.
had net debt of 33.8 million, made comprised 2.3 million from surrender Having now traded in both up of a five year term loan of of leasehold properties and Holland and Belgium for a number 32.4 million, loans and overdrafts 1.5 million from the relocation and of months we remain confident in Europe of 11.6 million, finance subsequent sale of a freehold interest.
that the potential for our proposition leases of 3.0 million and cash in both the market and the balances in the UK of 11.6 million, New channels competitive environment is significant and Europe of 1.6 million.
We continue to increase the and that we can achieve our goals penetration of our van business, over the medium term.
Outlook which serves the Carpetright at In the first eight weeks of the current home customer as well as providing Results financial year, the UK and Southern important support to some of our Trading in Holland has been in line Ireland operation has achieved insurance customers.
The business with our expectations and we have sales up 3.0% with like for like sales is now profitable in its own right seen good market share growth up 2.2%.
Gross margin continues while the insurance business has from the sale of floor covering to show good growth against the continued to grow strongly over products.
In Belgium trading has previous year.
May and June are, the last two and a half years.
been slower and, whilst floor though, relatively low periods for covering sales have increased, we Service the business and a more accurate still have an overall shortfall after We continue to invest in our business indication of progress for the half the removal of the dcor products.
to improve the overall service.
This will be given at our AGM and in The business has recorded year we invested in more estimators, the early autumn announcement an adjusted operating loss for the improved systems, a better later in the year.
year of 2.9 million with additional delivery service as well as starting In our European operations financing costs of a further the fitters assessment and training the sales performance is slightly 1.0 million in respect of interest programme with FITA Flooring below our expectations for the first on the loan we took to acquire Industry Training Association.
the business as well as local Nevertheless we are continuing to borrowings.
European acquisition see good growth in the meterage Additionally as a result of the We have made significant progress of floor coverings sold.
Our focus acceleration of the restructuring of towards our three-year plan for the for the coming period will be to the European business we have European business, which we wholly grow our market share and benefit now expensed all the exceptional acquired on 31 October 2002. from the improved margins and costs relating to the process in the Once the acquisition was lower costs that we have put in place.
year to 3 May 2003, which is complete we accelerated the pace The Group has made significant in line with our guidance in our of change to ensure all restructuring progress in the last 12 months and post Easter trading statement.
was completed during the year we look forward to the current year This amounted to a total of to 3 May 2003. with confidence.
The goodwill charge I would like to take this In this time we have for the 10 months to 3 May 2003 opportunity to thank our staff for Closed the distribution centre is 0.7 million.
all their hard work over the past and rationalised central service year.
Their skills, experience and functions by leveraging the wider Group summary dedication continue to enable us services and experience within Earnings per share and dividend to maintain our position as the worlds Carpetright: The adjusted Group earnings per leading floor coverings retailer.
Modernised a third of the estate share are up 16.1% to 56.2p.
while re-merchandising and Basic earnings per share was 50.7p reorganising the balance of the 2002: 48.4p.
stores, two stores have been closed: The Group purchased Removed the dcor products 1.58 million of its own shares from the stores and refocused on 29 April at a price of 581.2p, them on floor coverings only: at a total transaction value of 9.3 million including fees and tax.
The Board is recommending that Adjusted to exclude exceptional costs the final dividend be increased by and amortisation of goodwill, see 10.0% to 22p per share, which consolidated profit and loss account.
Carpetright plc Annual report and 4 accounts 2003 Key stories of the year Looking after Kosset... We have added the well-known brand of Kosset to our ranges this year via the launch of the exclusive Kosset Gold collection, providing an excellent addition to our offer with exclusive wear and stain guarantees for the customer.
New Woodright concept rolling-out... Laminate is becoming an increasingly important floor covering in the market and we intend to capitalise on this with our Woodright shop-in-shop proposition which is being rolled out to all stores following successful pilots during the second half of the year.
Carpetright plc Annual report and 5 accounts 2003 Direct access... We continue to invest in our new channels to the customer with our Carpetright at home proposition now trading profitably from 32 vans across the country whilst also serving our growing insurance business.
Expanding into Europe... We completed our first move into Europe with the acquisition of a business trading in Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg in October 2002.
This provides a low risk route to take the best ideas from our UK business and combine them with the local market to create the first step of our European expansion.
