The last few years have clearly illustrated the dangers of short term thinking and momentum based investing: we wish to encourage the fund manager to continue to make long term investment decisions for clear fundamental reasons.
2003 was yet another year of significant volatility for equity markets and can be separated into two distinct phases.
The first quarter of the year saw a continuation of the bearish equity market trends of the previous three years as investors worried about the prospect of war in Iraq and the continuing weakness of the global, and most pertinently, the US economy.
Weakness in UK equity markets was exacerbated during this period by many Life companies aggressively selling equities to protect their solvency.
The second phase followed the end of hostilities.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND Equity markets began to recover strongly and this I am pleased to present my first annual report, was given further impetus as the effect of the having been appointed Chairman of the Company in massive reflationary stimulus provided by the US March last year.
authorities started to feed through into economic Since reporting to you at the interim stage, the early strength.
These factors, together with large signs of an improvement in markets have been improvements in corporate earnings much of it the sustained.
Post-tax earnings for the year were consequence of cost-cutting, encouraged investors 16.483m, an increase of 12.3% on 2002.
These to return to equity markets.
Further comment on the results are, however, flattered by a change in basis economic and investment background is contained of allocation which I cover in more detail below, and in the Managers report on page 10. a more appropriate like for like comparison shows an increase of 8.2%.
DEBT Like many conventional investment trusts, the The Board is recommending a 2.5% increase in the Company uses a relatively low level of debt to seek final dividend to 17.8p, thus matching the enhanced returns to shareholders over the longer percentage increase in the interim dividend.
This has added to the performance of the dividend will be payable on 31 March 2004 to those Company this year and the Board is comfortable shareholders on the register as at 19 March 2004. that the 63m of debenture debt is about the right The total return on net assets during 2003 was level for the immediate future.
The amount and 25.0% which compares with a total return of 20.9% composition of such debt is kept under continual for the FTSE All-Share Index and 20.8% for the review, but currently the prohibitive cost of repaying FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
During the year, any of this debt precludes its reduction.
following consultation with both external consultants CHANGE IN ALLOCATION BASIS and the fund manager, the Board decided to revert As reported in the interim results, the Board has to using the FTSE All-Share Index as the sole taken the decision to change the basis of allocation benchmark for the performance of the Temple Bar of the cost of interest and management fees such portfolio.
The FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index has that 60% is now taken through the capital account.
become increasingly unbalanced in its construction, This is an increase from the rate of 50% which has with much of its performance governed by a handful been used previously, and is felt better to reflect the of very large companies.
We have also undertaken sources of historic and prospective gains.
to measure the performance of the fund manager over a rolling five year period compared with the TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 7 Chairmans statement continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OUTLOOK During the year there have been numerous Although the worst fears over dividends for the UK corporate governance and regulatory consultations.
equity market were not realised in 2003, it is Many of the changes required by the revised important to highlight the significance that the Combined Code have already been implemented by sterling dollar exchange rate has for expectations in the Board.
Furthermore, as part of its own wider 2004.
There are a growing number of large governance review, the Board has undertaken a companies, such as HSBC and Rio Tinto, who pay detailed analysis of some of the Companys key their dividends in US Dollars: with the large decline in service providers.
In particular, in conjunction with a that currency relative to sterling over the last two firm of external consultants, the Board carried years this has begun to have a noticeable effect on out a comprehensive review of its investment dividends receivable.
management arrangements encompassing both the While the strength of equity markets and improved role of Investec and strategic issues related to the global economic news in the second half of the year management of the investment portfolio.
As a result, has encouraged many commentators to assume the a number of changes to the investment parameters return of better times, we remain less sanguine.
The governing the management of the portfolio have many structural imbalances which have been been made including the establishment of new present in the US economy, including the large trade objectives for the managers.
I would emphasise that and budget deficits and the high level of consumer the commissioning of this report by the Board did debt remain.
The recent accelerated decline in the not indicate any lack of confidence in the managers, US Dollar illustrates that these are ignored at the who continue to enjoy the full support of the Board, peril of investors.
The attempts to stimulate the US having delivered superior returns over both the long economy appear to have been a success to date and the short term.
and, with a presidential election in 2004, such efforts A second aspect of the governance review related to by the authorities may be expected to continue.
In the position of auditors.
After careful consideration the longer term, however, doubts remain as to and a comprehensive review of alternatives it was whether this recovery can be self-sustaining or decided to replace  LLP as whether the deflationary cycle that followed the auditors with Ernst & Young LLP.
A resolution to restockmarket bubble of the late 1990s will re-assert appoint Ernst & Young LLP will be submitted at the itself.
Against this backdrop, and while the UK economy is more stable and the market more lowly rated than many other major markets, we feel it right to remain positioned with a fairly defensive portfolio and expect the protection that is offered by the high yields of most of our holdings to stand us in good stead in 2004 and beyond.
17 February 2004 John Reeve TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 8
