Chairmans Statement Alastair Ross Goobey CBE MA Hon.
RICS Chairman 5 June 2003 Introduction The last twelve months have been rather inglorious ones for equity investment.
Declines in share prices have been widespread and substantial sufficient to scare some long term institutional investors away from equity investment altogether.
Against this challenging background I am very pleased to report to you that the Trust has performed remarkably well.
Though the asset value per share fell, the decline was a modest one.
Our NAV returns have outperformed our benchmark index again for the fifth financial year in a row, revenue earnings are sharply higher and the board is able to recommend another substantial dividend increase.
Property shares beat the market again last year but there was a marked difference in performance between the UK and the Continent.
In the UK the sector index fell 23%: on the Continent property shares fell 5% in local currency terms, but rose 8% in sterling terms due to a strengthening Euro.
The move, two years ago, to increase the Trusts equity investment exposure on the Continent therefore paid off handsomely last year in absolute terms at both the capital and the revenue level, the more so as the Euro exposure was not hedged.
In relative terms we 4 TR Property Investment Trust Chairmans Statement continued Five Year Performance 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 Mar 98 Mar 99 Mar 00 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 Index of TR Property net asset value and share price compared with a composite index comprising the FTSE Real Estate Index for the period 31 March 1998 to 30 September 2001 and the Citigroup European Property Index for the period 1 October 2001 to 31 March 2003 Composite Index FTSE Real Estate Index to 30 September 2001: TR Property Share Price TR Property Net Asset Value Citigroup European Property Index from 1 October 2001 fully diluted to 31 July 2002 were underweight continental assets throughout the year.
Over the last five years our ungeared total return Had we, a year ago, sold more UK assets and invested from direct property has been 92% compared with the further in the Continent, the performance would have IPD Index figure of 65%.
Revenue Performance Revenue earnings per share have risen by 27.8% from Asset Performance 1.80p to 2.30p per share.
This has been the first financial In the year to the end of March 2003, the Trusts NAV per year in which the revenue account had the full benefit of share declined by 6.5% from 78.08p to 73.02p and gave the returns from higher yielding Continental property a total return that is after adding back the value of the shares, and their contribution to our investment income dividends paid of minus 4.2%.
Our benchmark index fell rose from 1.7m to 5.8m in the year.
Despite the by 9.3% and produced a total return of minus 5.5% over significant sales of UK assets made to finance the the same period.
This is the fifth consecutive year in which Continental investment and the reduction of total assets our NAV returns have beaten the returns from our by the 19m spent due to share and warrant repurchases, benchmark.
During those five years the benchmark index our UK income from shares and property declined by only has fallen 14.8% while your Trusts NAV has risen by 1m.
As a result total investment and rental income rose 31.7% giving outperformance of 54.7%.
During the year several property Share Index the NAV outperformance over the five years companies chose to return capital to shareholders by way is higher still at 103%.
The Trust received some 3.85m by Our direct property holdings, all of which are in the UK, way of these special dividends.
Your board and the produced an ungeared total return of 8.0%, and so again auditors consider these payments fundamentally to be made a positive contribution to performance, though they capital receipts.
Only where it is clear that the payments underperformed the IPD Monthly Index total return for the by companies have been made as a result of potentially same period of 10.6% because we held no retail property repeatable earnings have the dividends been credited to TR Property Investment Trust 5 Chairmans Statement continued income, and the amount so treated in the year was Currency Exposure The portfolio exposure to foreign currency assets and 0.55m and the remaining 3.30m was credited to the capital account.
income was unhedged during the last financial year, during which the Euro rose by 13% against the pound.
Revenue Outlook This added some 3.5p to the total return per share.
Going Our managers currently anticipate that the Trusts revenue forward it will be the Trusts normal policy to remain income per share will increase again in the current year, unhedged unless, with the managers advice, the board but at a very modest pace compared with increases in the considers that there is a strong potential benefit to last two years.
Earnings and dividend growth from the shareholders from hedging on a short term basis.
companies within our equity portfolio are slowing but are Share and Warrant Repurchases expected to remain positive in the next twelve months.
Further ahead we expect to see a sharp increase in our The managers, on instructions from the board, have continued to purchase shares for cancellation when income from our French property companies in our next but one financial year if the proposed REIT structure in suitable opportunities have occurred and the board is seeking renewal of authority from shareholders to buy France is fully implemented.
These comments notwithstanding, shareholders will be well aware that the back shares at the Annual General Meeting.
During the last financial year a total of 10.66m was spent buying investee company dividends that make up the bulk of our income are not in our control.
back 17.5 million shares at an average price of 60.8p.
A further 8.89m was spent repurchasing 38.8 million Dividends warrants before the expiry date of the warrant issue in The interim dividend was raised by an extraordinary level July 2002.
Combined, these repurchases served to from 0.65p to 0.90p per share and I commented in my increase the net asset value by 1.65p per share.
The Trust statement then that shareholders should not anticipate issued 17.4 million shares to the remaining warrant that the final dividend of 1.00p per share would holders at 47.5p during the year with the result that the necessarily be raised.
In the light of the full year revenue number of shares outstanding at the end of the financial result I am pleased to report that the board now year is almost the same as at March 2002.
Since they proposes a 15% increase in the final dividend to 1.15p were instigated in late 1999, the additional value created per share.
This, added to the interim dividend, produces for shareholders through buy-backs has been around a total payment for the year ended 31 March 2003 of 3.6p per share or almost 5% of the asset value at 2.05p per share, a 24.2% increase over the total March 2003. dividends of 1.65p per share paid for the year ended March 2002.
This total dividend of 2.05p per share FTSE 250 Index compares with a total payment of 1.12p per share made The Trusts shares entered the FTSE 250 Index in five years ago in the year ended March 1998.
This promotion carries no lasting percentage increase of 83.0% is equivalent to 12.8% benefit to shareholders, but illustrates the extent to per annum compound.
which the Trusts capitalisation has withstood the ravages of the market declines relative to many other Gearing companies, which historically have been far larger.
Net debt declined from 82m to 47m last year and Perhaps we should hope, for sake of the future of equity gearing fell from 24% to 15%.
Given the relatively high investment in the UK, that the Trust does not remain in income producing potential of our property assets, it is the Index for long!
the boards policy for the Trust to be between 15% and 30% geared under stable market conditions.
The level of Awards gearing may be lower or higher than these levels if Investment awards are recognition of excellent past justified by the managers forecasts of future investment performance.
Last year your Company received the value movements.
Bloomberg Money Award for the Best Specialist 6 TR Property Investment Trust Chairmans Statement continued Investment Trust of 2002 and the Money Observer Award I am pleased to announce that our management team has for the Best Large Investment Trust of 2002.
In addition been further strengthened this year by the appointment of our management team was joint runner-up in the Property James Wilkinson to run the direct property portfolio.
Fund Manager of the Year Award for 2002 organised by James will report to Marcus Phayre-Mudge, who has been Property Week magazine.
As I commented at the interim appointed Deputy Fund Manager.
stage receiving such awards can be a bad omen for future Outlook performance but I am confident that your Company will be As an asset class, property has performed with great an exception to this rule.
credit over the past four years relative to equities.
The In my last interim statement, I remarked that despite the high annuity-like returns offered are attractive to maturing outstanding performance record of the Trust, the board pension and life assurance funds in a low interest rate was concerned that the share price discount to net asset environment.
Property equities have shared some, but not value per share remained appreciable and that it would all, of the performance glory.
Given current discount levels, continue to pursue ways of addressing this.
In pursuit of they must be expected now to outperform directly held this aim the board has approved the appointment of Mark property assets as world economies start to recover.
The Vickery, as an investor relations manager for the Trust, Trust has come through the downturn in good shape and with a mandate to widen investor awareness in the Trust your board believes it is favourably positioned for a and its excellent track record.
gradual improvement in equity markets.
Board and Management However, direct property has probably seen the zenith of Although I am offering myself for re-election at this its relative performance in the current cycle.
The outlook years Annual General Meeting, I have informed the for tenant demand and rental growth is currently much board that it is my intention to retire as a director of the less positive, and without a revival in the general economy Trust after the AGM in 2004 when I will have served on and the broader equity market, property and property the board for ten years.
It is my strong belief that a shares cannot prosper for long.
The current management regular infusion of new board members is important to team has demonstrated its ability to increase both the the continuing vitality of all companies, and your dividend income from, and the asset value of, your Company currently has a strong group of more recently Company in an extraordinarily volatile market environment.
appointed directors to guide it in the future.
On your behalf, I thank them most warmly for their efforts.
