Chairmans Statement Background When I took over as Chairman in March of last year, none of us would have believed the magnitude of the increase that world Harry Henderson equity markets have since experienced.
I am therefore delighted to be reporting a real return on the year of significant proportions.
However, lest we forget the severity of the three convinced that quality of company is the key to long term year bear market, it is worth recording that this recovery has wealth but those companies that consistently grow earnings per taken the net asset value per share back to the levels last seen share were not in favour last year.
We remain a global equity fund with a policy of using gearing of Various changes to the corporate governance requirements for up to 10% when we believe equity markets are moving in an listed companies generally, and to the rules governing upward direction.
investment companies in particular, were published in the Performance Analysis 1 year 5 years second half of 2003.
The Board embraces the purpose of these %% changes and our approach to their implementation is set out Witan Capital Return 16.4 -15.5 later in this report.
Benchmark Return 17.2 -15.4 cccc Relative Performance -0.8 -0.1 cccc Overview Attribution: This is the first time in the last four years that the overall return Stock Selection from Witan and from world equity markets has been positive.
UK Mainstream -0.6 8.0 UK Smaller Companies -7.1 However, in contrast to the strong outperformance at the end of North America -1.0 -3.4 the 1990s, this is the fourth year that we have underperformed Europe excluding the UK 2.8 our benchmark.
What is particularly disappointing is that our Japan -0.3 1.1 Pacic excluding Japan -0.1 -0.2 gearing and our smaller company exposure, largely responsible Emerging Markets 0.2 for the underperformance since March 2000, have not beencccc -2.0 1.4 more positive this year.
Stock selection has been difficult: we Geographical Asset Allocation 0.1 1.6 have found it so in nearly all markets over the last year, as Net Gearing Effect 1.1 -3.1 cccc signals from financial markets have been increasingly puzzling.
-0.8 -0.1 mmmm Volatility has collapsed as has the dollar, corporate scandals have Source: Henderson Global Investors Limited continued and the focus has switched from deation to ination with a third quarter US GDP rise of 8%.
It is against this Markets background that positive decisions have been made at the asset Last year the UK was the worst performing major market in local allocation level, notably the selling of volatility in the early part currency terms, despite a respectable GDP performance of the year, the increase in our weighting to the Far East and the compared with others in the developed world.
As in hedging of a small part of our US dollar exposure.
grandmothers footsteps, the market will never be caught: she has seen the implications of stealth taxes, understood the effects If this has been a twelve-month period when it was impossible of pension fund taxation and noticed the advent of untried to own all that is moving upwards, it is worth highlighting the regulation and ever increasing layers of bureaucracy, all of which significant relative value that has been added in our UK constrain prospects for growth.
We mainstream portfolio over the longer term.
We remain have traditionally allocated a high proportion 60% of the 4 portfolio to the UK, as compared to our competition.
The clear intention of this multi-manager point as we have the responsibility to allocate your capital to approach is to improve the overall investment returns of where the players are best advantaged, whether they be the the Trust.
companies we invest in or the managers we choose to carry out the investment.
If the long-term competitive position of the UK Management Fees were to be damaged, we would feel compelled to reduce The management fee was due for renegotiation at the end of gradually our exposure to this country.
You will recall that we had last agreed to a 4 million xed fee and a performance fee capped at 1.5 million.
This was The prospect of the first synchronised global recovery for nearly negotiated at a time of strongly rising asset values.
There is no twenty years has driven markets to unexpected levels: so what is doubt that in the early years this agreement worked to our our approach to 2004?
The trends in valuation, GDP growth and advantage but more latterly, with falling markets, to our policy affecting equity markets around the world would seem to disadvantage.
Taking the five year period covered by the favour markets such as the Far East, including Japan.
In the more agreement to pay xed rather than ad valorem fees, we have fully valued markets such as the US, currency considerations will paid approximately 6 million less than we would have done if be an important determinant of stock selection.
the old 0.3% three year rolling fee had been retained.
The investment environment is much improved.
Your It was necessary to agree an interim fee arrangement with Board must encourage its managers to grasp opportunities Henderson, given that the old fee rates were due for but also to defend against dangers.
We must not allow renegotiation and that we are planning a reorganisation of the benchmarks to prevent us looking for ways of reducing risk investment management providers now the new Chief Executive and improving rewards.
In summary, we have agreed to pay Henderson 0.3% of assets under management per annum calculated monthly in Recent Announcement arrears with effect from 1 January 2004 until such time as we I hope you are aware of the announcement that your Board can determine the exact nature of the relationship.
It is worth made in October last year: namely its intention to appoint for recording that the Trust receives a number of other important the first time a Chief Executive directly employed by Witan services from Henderson which are covered by this fee.
This decision will enable your Board to summary of the interim fee arrangements is set out on page 26 appoint investment managers alongside Henderson to manage in the Directors Report.
We believe this to be in shareholders best interests as no one fund management company can have at their Dividends disposal top managers in all markets.
In accordance with our current policy we have again increased the dividend.
It is our intention, subject to shareholders Amidst the overwhelmingly positive reaction to this approval, to pay a final dividend of 4.60 pence per ordinary announcement, the concerns that have been expressed to me are share, to make a total distribution for the year of 8.30 pence about the effect this move will have on the Companys overall 2002: 8.10 pence out of earnings of 8.98 pence per share.
We costs, particularly those of a xed nature.
We must avoid the UK propose this modest 2.47% increase against the background of railways problem whereby another layer of management does unchanged gross revenues.
Looking to the future, the rate of not ensure that the trains arrive any faster.
Your Board regards its dividend increases is dependent on companies generally growing actions more as the introduction of new rolling stock and their dividends.
There are some signs that perceptions of the 5 Chairmans Statement continued importance of a disciplined dividend policy are rising, albeit from a low point, in boardrooms both in the UK and the USA.
Board Changes Charles Faringdon retired as your Chairman at the AGM in March.
I would like to put on record our appreciation for his contribution to the Company over 27 years.
As I said in the interim statement, his wisdom and knowledge are much missed.
I would like to welcome Jim Horsburgh as your new Chief Executive officer, the first to be employed directly by the Company.
This is an important initiative which we believe offers the Company greater exibility with the twin objectives of improving both the investment and the discount performance of Witan.
He comes with a great deal of experience across many aspects of the investment world.
The changes which he has been charged to make will take some time to effect as we wish to make haste slowly.
We do not envisage that new managers for any part of the portfolio will be in place until well into the second half of the year.
We plan to give shareholders more information at the time of our AGM in March.
Annual General Meeting Our AGM will be held this year at the British Museum, on Monday 29 March 2004 at 6.45pm.
Formal notice of the meeting is set out on pages 50 and 51 and further details on the enclosed invitation card.
Those of you who are able to come will have an opportunity to hear Jim Horsburgh as well as to participate in the formal business.
I look forward to the opportunity to meet shareholders then.
