development for rheumatoid arthritis, has for their valuable support and entered pivotal Phase III studies in contributions to the Company.
Importantly, Celltechs product development capabilities are Philip Rogerson, who has an extensive being extensively restructured and finance background, joined the Board in reinforced to meet the needs of its March 2003, and was subsequently growing pipeline.
appointed as Senior Independent Director.
He serves on the Audit and Celltech has also maintained its strong Remuneration Committees.
Peter financial profile in 2003 and this Cadbury, whose corporate finance The past year has seen much change continues to provide a robust platform experience included a period as Deputy within Celltech including, most for its major long-term R&D Chairman of Morgan Grenfell, joined the importantly, a major, planned commitment.
The commercial operations Board in April 2003.
He serves on the management transition.
With the performed well, despite generic pressures Remuneration Committee and chairs the appointment of Gran Ando in April and adverse currency influences, and Nomination Committee.
Ingelise 2003, Celltech gained a Chief Executive royalty revenues increased significantly.
Saunders, Global Commercial Director with an exceptional R&D track record with responsibility for the pharmaceutical and extensive business experience.
In There have been a number of unforeseen business, was elected to the Board in parallel, Peter Allen was appointed as challenges and events during the year, in October 2003.
This reflects both the key Deputy Chief Executive, significantly particular the discontinuation of Celltechs importance of this business to Celltech broadening his responsibilities to include collaboration with Pfizer and the and her strong personal performance.
manufacturing, whilst retaining his role acquisition of Oxford GlycoSciences OGS as Chief Financial Officer and at the beginning of the year and its During 2003 Celltechs business responsibilities for IT, Business subsequent integration.
Notwithstanding environment has continued to be Development and Legal activities.
the resulting demands placed upon the demanding and has presented our management team, it has continued to employees with a series of challenges, to A series of new strategic initiatives has focus successfully upon the strategic which they have successfully responded.
since been implemented, which is development of the Company.
Celltechs Board would like to thank strengthening and enhancing both them for their outstanding commitment Celltechs R&D pipeline and its In conjunction with the management during the year, and their contribution to commercial operations, and which will transition, a series of Board changes the continued growth and development support the Companys further successful occurred during the year, which were of the Company.
previewed in the last Annual Report.
These included the retirement of John During the year the product pipeline has Jackson, after serving as Chairman for been expanded, with a range of over 20 years, and of Hugh Collum and innovative new entrants into clinical John Baker as Deputy Chairmen.
In development, possessing large market addition, Marvin Jaffe plans to retire as a potentials.
In addition, Celltechs lead Non-Executive Director at the AGM in Dr Peter Fellner product, CDP870, in late-stage May 2004.
The Board again thanks them Chairman Celltech Annual Report 2003 1 Chairmans Statement
