Chairmans statement Our continued focus on understanding and providing what our customers want has helped us to achieve growth in both revenues and earnings.
Centrica has made steady UK and mainland Europe.
It successor, Roger Carr, subject progress during 2003 against a seems inevitable, however, to re-election to the board, will backdrop of uncertain economic that the increasing costs of be taking over as chairman at conditions, rising energy prices complying with the UK and EU the end of the annual general and challenging regulatory regulations designed to deliver meeting AGM in May.
issues in some of our markets.
a low carbon economy will Our continued focus on create upward pressure on The future understanding and providing consumer electricity prices.
Centrica has made enormous what our customers want, and progress over the past seven our skill in managing the risks of Dividend years, rising from the bottom sourcing the energy to meet their The board of directors is half of the FTSE 100 Index needs, have helped us to achieve proposing a final dividend of to position itself in the top 30 growth to record levels in both 3.7 pence per share to be paid companies in the UK: growing revenues and earnings.
This means that, from our British Gas base when combined with the interim through the acquisition of The development of competitive dividend of 1.7 pence per share the AA, the movement into markets is important for our paid in November 2003, the telecommunications and strategy.
In 2003 we saw a total dividend for 2003 will be international expansion.
continuing commitment to a 5.4 pence per share.
This total I am delighted that we have fully transparent energy market per share increase of 35% established a solid platform in Britain, with new legislation to reflects our continuing from which continued delivery introduce a competitive electricity confidence in the outlook for of our strategy will produce trading system in Scotland.
In both cash flow and earnings strong medium term growth.
Europe, the new energy directives in the medium term.
are now in place, and we look The commitment and dedication forward to the establishment of The commitment and of our employees have ensured a properly competitive market.
that 2003 has been another very Earnings per share pence dedication of our The regulatory environment in successful year for the group employees have 03 11.8 16.8 North America remains varied, and I would like to thank them ensured that 2003 has but overall we have continued all for their hard work.
I am 02 11.4 15.2 been a very successful to prosper in our chosen confident that, with the 01 8.1 12.1 year for the group.
There has been excellent management team further progress in improving led by Sir Roy Gardner, along 00 8.4 10.2 the competitive nature of the The board of directors with the experience brought 99 4.3 7.9 UK telecommunications market, Sir Brian Shaw retired in May by Roger Carr as the new After goodwill amortisation and exceptional but there is some way to go 2003 and we are most grateful chairman, and the collective charges, including joint ventures and associates.
before a level playing field is for the part he played in the efforts of all our employees, Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional firmly established.
the company will continue charges, including joint ventures and associates.
It is fitting that he continues to to go from strength to strength.
In 2003 there were sharp rises chair the AA Motoring Trust, an Dividend pence in UK wholesale prices in both independent charity supported 03 5.4 gas and electricity despite lower by Centrica.
Mike Alexander, than average consumption due who made a considerable 02 4.0 to warmer weather.
The long contribution to the success 01 3.1 term outlook for gas supply in of Centrica, retired from the the UK is improving, with an company in February 2003.
In 00 2.8 increasing diversity of supply December, my own retirement Sir Michael Perry GBE 99 2.5 and further links between the was announced and my Chairman Centrica plc report 2003 01
