AstraZeneca Annual Report and Chairmans Statement 02 Form 20-F Information 2003 Chairmans Statement issues relating to the Doha Agreement on We welcome Michele Hooper and Joe Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Jimenez, who joined the Board in July as Property Rights TRIPs and the public health Non-Executive Directors.
Micheles benefits that will flow from this resolution.
experience at Caremark International and Baxter Healthcare in the US and Joes In the context of this business environment background as President and CEO of Heinz and recognising the specific challenges Europe and earlier positions in the US bring faced by the Company, AstraZenecas additional strengths to the Board.
Hkan financial performance in 2003 has been Mogren stepped down as Executive Deputy excellent and the Board has recommended Chairman in August 2003 and continues as a second interim dividend of $0.54: 29.4 Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
In his Five years ago, on the completion of the pence: SEK 3.91 per Ordinary Share executive capacity, Hkan Mogren served merger of the Astra and Zeneca bringing the total dividend for the year to both Astra AB and AstraZeneca PLC with businesses, the new Board had a clear $0.795: 45.3 pence: SEK 5.98, an increase distinction and I am delighted that the Board vision.
AstraZeneca was to be a creative, of 13.6% in dollar terms.
The share rewill continue to benefit from his wise fast and effective, research-based purchase programme continued in 2003 counsel.
Its increased with 27.2 million shares re-purchased for global marketing strength provided the cancellation at a total cost of $1,154 million.
I am grateful to my colleagues on the Board platform to realise the full potential of its The Board is proposing a further share refor their support, to the Senior Executive productive R&D and deliver sustainable purchase programme of $4 billion to be Team and to all our employees worldwide value to all its stakeholders.
completed by the end of 2005, subject to for their impressive contributions to the shareholders renewing the Companys Companys success.
On behalf of the Back in 1999, there were some substantial authority to re-purchase its own shares at Board, I would like to thank them most hurdles to overcome before this vision could the Annual General Meeting in April.
The first of these was to rapidly complete the merger, build on the The AstraZeneca share price performed In 2004, we aim to deliver strong sales strengths of the two partners to create a well in 2003 in both absolute terms and growth from our portfolio of important single unified culture and realise the merger when compared with an international group medicines while, at the same time, cost benefits without significantly disturbing of leading pharmaceutical companies, progressing the next wave of novel our day-to-day operations.
This was reflecting the markets positive view of the products.
We will continue our investment achieved in the first two years.
strategy in developing regions to complement our strong presence in the Our focus was then on another major During a busy year, the Board analysed major established markets.
challenge: the transformation of our product trends in the pharmaceutical environment portfolio from its historic reliance on and reviewed the Companys overall Through strong sales growth coupled with successful but maturing products, such as strategy and performance.
I am happy to productivity improvements across all our Losec Prilosec and Zestril, into a range of report good progress in the productivity activities, we expect to deliver top tier newer high potential medicines.
Many increase programmes that cover all parts of financial performance in the years ahead.
commentators predicted a steep decline in the Company.
In line with this culture of sales and profit during this period.
continuous improvement, the performance of the Board, its committees and all By the end of 2003, this transformation had individual members were reviewed in a largely been achieved.
There have been constructive discussion that identified areas some delays in new product launches but for further improvement.
Percy Barnevik also some of the more mature brands have Chairman not declined as fast as expected.
During the year the Board has reviewed its AstraZeneca is now facing an exciting already demanding compliance procedures period of expansion with few patent expiries AstraZeneca relative share performance to respond to new laws and regulations in and growth driven by the recently 31 December 1998 31 December 2003 the US, Sweden and the UK.
This Annual introduced products and by further new AstraZeneca Report and Form 20-F Information, our product launches.
Recent investments in Major international pharmaceutical companies Annual Review and Corporate Responsibility developing countries also add to the Summary Report have all been prepared in potential for growth.
160 accordance with the new requirements.
We 130 have also reviewed and strengthened the Taking a wider perspective, the Companys Code of Conduct.
In the US pharmaceutical sector continued to 100 we have undertaken significant compliance experience pricing pressures in major 70 training with our sales and other relevant markets during 2003 and the AstraZeneca Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec personnel pursuant to the Corporate 98 99 99 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 03 Board reviewed the Companys approach to Integrity Agreement with the Office of product pricing and market access for our Abbott Labs, AHP, Aventis, BMS, Eli Lilly, GSK, JNJ, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Pharmacia, Roche, Sanofi-Synthelabo, Inspector General of the Department of products.
We support the World Trade Schering and Schering-Plough Health and Human Services.
Organisation WTO resolution of outstanding Source: Thomson Financial Datastream
