Chairmans message Sir Christopher Bland, Chairman, reports on a year in which BT further reduced debt, grew its dividend signicantly and continued to invest in the future.
The year commercial success if we make every experience of This has been a really good year for BT.
We said our services simple and complete.
12 months ago that, in a turbulent market, your Your companys broader responsibilities include company had taken the hard decisions and necessary the maintenance of a good reputation, denitive actions early.
Events have shown that we were right to standards of governance and a coherent corporate do so and that we have now established a strong base social responsibility programme, all vital to for sustainable growth.
Earnings per share in the year encouraging investors to put their trust in us, increased by 61% and net debt reduced by over customers to buy from us and the best people to 4 billion.
The group generated free cash ow of work for us.
This sense of responsibility runs through 1.7 billion.
The full year dividend of 6.5 pence per the whole of our organisation.
share reects the groups financial performance, operational strength and confidence in the future.
Pensions In the past two years, our net debt has been BT takes its responsibilities to its pensioners, existing reduced from 27.9 billion as at 31 March 2001 to and prospective, very seriously.
The result of a recent 9.6 billion as at 31 March 2003, a reduction of 66%.
valuation of the main BT pension scheme, carried out The foundations of the progress in 2003 were the by the independent actuary appointed by the Scheme achievement of operating efficiencies and the sale of trustees, showed a funding deficit of 2.1 billion.
This non-core assets, such as our stake in Cegetel, which compares to 1 billion at the last formal valuation in we sold for 2.6 billion.
BT has agreed it will make good this deficit with improving service in our traditional markets, and our additional annual payments of 232 million, compared growing success in such new-wave markets as to the 200 million additional annual payments that BT broadband, mobility, information and communications has been making.
We continue to invest in and to transform our network to help take our Strength of the BT Pension Scheme 20 million customers into a future shaped by new The BT Pension Scheme, which has been closed to new communications possibilities.
members since 31 March 2001, is backed by BT.
The Scheme assets are controlled by trustees who must act Purpose and responsibilities in the best interests of its members.
Any deficit has to As a business, our purpose is to connect the worlds be made good by the company, and no changes can be of our customers.
In achieving that purpose we will made to the rules and benets that apply to Scheme provide the greatest customer satisfaction and enjoy members without the agreement of the trustees.
4 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Key events and achievements June 2002 Launch of Openzone, BTs public wireless LAN hotspot service September 2002 The UKs most intensive TV campaign stimulates demand for broadband November 2002 BT wins e1 billion contract to manage and develop Unilevers global communications infrastructure January 2003 Sale of stake in Cegetel for 2.6 billion April 2003 BT announces that it has connected more than 800,000 broadband customers Company Board We believe the company is well placed nancially, Iam delighted to welcome Clay Brendish, former operationally and managerially to meet new deputy chairman of CMG plc, and founder and former challenges and to seize new opportunities.
executive chairman of Admiral plc, to the Board.
Clay brings with him a wealth of experience in the information technology industry.
His appointment with effect from 1 September 2002, on which shareholders will have the opportunity to vote at this years AGM, means that independent non-executive directors constitute a majority on your Board.
Sir Christopher Bland Chairman People and prospects 21 May 2003 Finally, we would like to thank our customers, our shareholders and our people for their continued confidence in and loyalty to the company.
We are recognising the efforts of our people in meeting BTs performance targets through awarding them 2% of the pre-tax profits, 36 million, in the form of BT shares.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 5
