Chairmans Statement independence of its decision-taking from other Group activities.
In the Barclays had a successful 2003, delivering UK, BGI is guided by the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
strong returns to our shareholders while A recurring theme in 2003 was the significant amount of senior continuing to invest in our staff, customer management time that continued to be committed to regulation, compliance and governance.
The final version of the revised products and services, and contributing to Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which comes into effect the communities in which we work.
for our 2004 reporting year, was a balanced document.
Barclays welcomes the principles-based approach retained in the Combined Code, and the continuance of comply or explain.
There will never be Market one set of prescriptive rules which can t all companies in all countries The economic picture was brighter in 2003.
The UK economy made in all circumstances.
progress, growing at 2.1%, whilst repositioning away from consumption towards corporate investment, government spending and a stronger However, there are no signs of relief from the number of reviews, trade balance.
The US economy embarked on a vigorous recovery, consultations and regulations that affect the banking industry.
In 2003, with uncertainties about the strength and durability of the recovery we responded to government consultations and questionnaires on diminishing.
There are signs at last that the Eurozone economy may capital adequacy, payment systems, credit cards, insurance, business be stabilising.
crime, pensions, other investment products, corporate governance, company law, mortgage regulation, marketing of financial services as Financial markets also witnessed greater stability in 2003 a welcome well as numerous employment and social issues.
Today, we are faced change following the volatility and depressed state of 2001 and 2002. with reviews of the Consumer Credit Act and the Financial Services and As a result, confidence has improved.
Markets Act, further inquiries into payment systems and long-term Board Changes savings as well as an array of additional legislation that is being There were several changes in Board membership during 2003. proposed in the EU that will affect our industry.
The Chairman of the John Stewart and Graham Wallace resigned and Sir Nigel Mobbs retired Financial Services Authority recently pointed to fourteen major sources after 23 years service with Barclays.
The Board is immensely grateful to of EU legislation which will become mandatory for the financial sector Sir Nigel for his huge contribution over this time.
Professor Dame Sandra over the next four years.
Little of the EU legislation appears to be subject Dawson and Sir Richard Broadbent joined the Board.
Professor Dame to a rigorous cost benefit assessment before it is promulgated and Sandra Dawson is Professor of Management Studies and Director of the implemented.
There seems little doubt that the increased cost, in terms Judge Institute at Cambridge University, and brings both academic and of both management time and actual expenditure, is high relative to management experience to the Board.
Sir Richard Broadbent was associated benets.
Executive Chairman, Her Majestys Customs & Excise, for three years Corporate Social Responsibility and previously worked in investment banking.
He brings to the Board We take our corporate and social responsibilities seriously.
We have a combination of public sector and corporate finance experience established a Brand and Reputation Committee with responsibility for and knowledge.
Corporate Social Responsibility issues Group-wide.
We are committed to We announced last October that Matthew Barrett will succeed me as behaving in a manner that is worthy of the trust of our staff, customers, Chairman at the end of 2004.
Mr Barrett will be replaced as Group Chief shareholders and communities and in Chris Lendrum we now have a Executive by John Varley who became Group Deputy Chief Executive on Vice-Chairman with specic responsibilities in this area.
Chris Lendrum was appointed Vice-Chairman with numerous examples of activity of which we can be proud.
We are one of effect from the same date.
We have also appointed four new executive the UKs largest corporate givers.
We have over 17,000 staff volunteers Directors to the Board: Roger Davis, Chief Executive UK Banking: Gary working in the community.
The number of volunteers is increasing every Hoffman, Chief Executive Barclaycard: Naguib Kheraj, who has taken year: our staff continue to make a significant contribution to the over from John Varley as Group Finance Director: and David Roberts, communities in which we are based.
We continue to promote Equality Chief Executive Private Clients and International.
We shall be looking and Diversity in the workplace.
to appoint new non-executive Directors during 2004 to ensure Summary that the Board has a significant majority of independent Overall, we made much progress across a broad-based set of activities, non-executive Directors.
and this positions Barclays strongly for the future.
Barclays has a strong management team to take the business forward.
We have a distinctive set of businesses.
We have a high quality and It is one of the key tasks of the Group Chief Executive to develop talent experienced leadership team and loyal and dedicated staff.
I am so that the organisation is well led at all levels.
Mr Barrett has done an extremely grateful to them for their hard work in helping us achieve outstanding job in this regard.
Corporate Governance Barclays Global Investors BGI is one of the worlds largest institutional asset managers, with over US$1 trillion in assets under management.
Last year, the Board approved the process by which BGI determines Sir Peter Middleton its Corporate Governance and proxy voting guidelines to ensure the Chairman 2
