Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement This was a vintage year.
British Lands tried and tested business model achieved record pre-tax profits of 172.4 million and our highest ever adjusted diluted net assets of 860p per share, up 57p, a rise of 7.1%.
Adjusted undiluted assets per share were up 51p, a rise 7 of 6.1% to 884p.
We are lifting the final dividend by 8.1% to 9.3p per share.
Including the interim of 4.1p already paid, the distribution for the full year is also up 8.1% at 13.4p.
With reversions of 58 million on the investment portfolio still to come plus income from developments, we expect to go on raising dividends, and thus carry forward our existing 24 year record of increasing payouts every year.
Net assets per share growth was helped by a combined programme of buying back 30.3 million shares at a cost of 130.1 million and of exercising the provision we built in for early 1 redemption of the 6 2%323 million Convertible Bonds 2007 at par.
This redemption removed the prospectively dilutive effect of 48.1 million shares due to be issued on conversion.
Overall we have thus reduced the number of diluted shares by 78.4 million, that is a cut of 13.1%.
We timed our purchases to take advantage of market weakness derived from forced selling, thereby achieving the very beneficial outcome of one of the largest and the cheapest buybacks in the sector.
Specialist In valuation terms, overall the portfolio was up 0.7%.
Quality assets equipment of many kinds is even in sectors under pressure still hold up.
While our other City employed in the upkeep of the office values are off 8.8%, Broadgate itself has declined only 6.0%.
Sometimes its use this context the European Bank for Reconstruction and Developis obvious, though the purpose ments decision to remain at Broadgate until 2022 is very positive for of some machines may invite us.
The imminence of the 2006 break clause is reflected in a lower speculation.
This, we are value attributed by our independent valuers as at March 2003.
With reliably informed, is a device the break now removed we can look forward to significant accretions for aerating the soil.
in value as both the rent-free period runs off and we enjoy the benefit of the value of the lease extension from 2016 to 2022.
The lease remains full repairing, and the building is to be reinstated by the tenant to open space with all partitions removed.
The net-of-tax cost of the rent-free is around 42 million, and we rather like the marble!
At 4.6 billion, retail represents some half of the entire portfolio and provided a counterbalance.
The retail portfolio shows an overall increase of 7.9%, with department stores being the star performers, up 16.4%.
The supermarkets, up another 11%, also added value strongly, and we still believe they are under-rented.
Our use of joint ventures, the route we have employed to achieve access to properties that were not on the market, also paid off last year with growth of 4.5% on the 2.8 billion joint venture portfolios.
Our income is largely provided by rents paid by strong tenants on long leases.
The weighted average lease length, assuming all breaks are exercised at the earliest date, is 16 years.
We have granted no options to tenants to put back space.
Gross rents, including our The British Land Company PLC share of joint ventures, were up 7.3% at 551.6 million last year and Significant committed transactions now under construction are net rents were up 7.6% at 513.3 million.
limited to Plantation Place, London EC3 principally pre-let to Accenture, There is no substitute for sustained and rising cash flow, which is and the 163,000 sq ft office building at 10 Exchange Square in the of course the basis of property valuation and its attraction to investors.
Overall we have now spent 13 5 million of the Including joint ventures, property purchases in the year were 319 million cost, funded from our own resources.
328 million, with 1 Appold Street being the largest item and comJoint venture development sales, primarily at Cherrywood near pleting our 20 year assembly at Broadgate of four million sq ft on Dublin, Thatcham and Enfield, have reduced the extent of next stage over 34 acres.
Profitable property sales including the joint ventures projects by some 14%.
We have also reduced the amount of the and only minimal trading were 612 million.
Companys capital tied up in non-earning sites to below 200 million, only 1.8% of the managed portfolio.
We are continuing with prepara- 8 Specialist Management tory moves on next stage projects, which we are happy to own until Our specialist teams have been particularly active in managing their we judge the time is right to commence the development.
Reflecting our market views we sold our British Lands management ethos is exemplified in its develshare of Cherrywood, the development near Dublin.
With just eight executives the largest and most substantial sales in Public House Company, our joint venture with complex of projects are managed highly efficiently.
For example at Scottish & Newcastle plc.
In BLU, our joint venture with Great Plantation Place, the office development providing 700,000 sq ft in Universal Stores plc, we have continued our programme of sales.
We two buildings, each has been run with a discrete project team.
also realised all the properties in BL Rank, our joint venture with Rank Together, the design phase has involved five different firms of Group plc.
On the other side of the coin we took advantage of consultants using more than 150 people.
The construction phase opportunities to buy out our partners in 201 Bishopsgate, London involves 92 contractors with a peak number of people on the sites EC2 and in the residential company London & Henley.
We continue per day of 550 and with roughly 5,000 people engaged altogether.
to seek further ventures and will apply the same selective and longThe steel frame contract for No.
1 Plantation Place specifies the term approach to prospective partners.
manufacture, delivery and assembly of 9,000 pieces of precision-cut steel weighing 7,000 tonnes in total and requiring over 75,000 manA Balanced View hours to erect.
We are long-term investors in real estate, but we are not in the business of fabricating quarterly firecrackers to suit short-term Active Financial Management speculators in the market.
The portfolios performance in the present The weighted average interest rate on our 4.4 billion net debt is testing times shows the value of the long view and how important it improved again at 6.31% with 83% of debt at fixed rates of interest is to have the right assets modern, functional buildings of adaptand 64% on terms which restrict lenders recourse to specified able design for easy updating, situated in locations of enduring assets only.
By raising non-recourse, ring-fenced, securitised debt, appeal to a spread of occupiers.
the Company can realise value from property without the selling British Lands balanced portfolio provides significant benefits and costs, stamp and tax bill that a profitable sale would incur.
It also attractions at a time of economic stress.
Fashion is fickle and though retains all the future growth.
1 2 it can be made to appear superficially attractive at the time to be The redemption of our 6 %323 million Convertible saved focused on whatever sector of the market is in vogue, it is naive not interest which as planned has mitigated the financing cost of our to mention tax inefficient and costly to imagine that one can flit share buy-back programme.
Our share buy-backs in turn brought our between the sectors on a whim.
Every building, each parcel of land is mortgage ratio back up to almost 50%, which we regard as comfortdifferent.
Good property, once sold, may be impossible to retrieve or able: tax cost is minimised because of deductible interest, our equity replicate and in a difficult and less liquid market it is often only capital requirement is kept modest and shareholders gain a higher good property that will attract buyers.
We have always been active in level of growth per share out of our property performance than if we the market in pursuit of performance.
Over the last six years were less geared.
Moreover, the combined market value of our profitable sales have been over 3 billion.
Property is a long-term shares and our debt stand at a similar discount to those of our peers.
business but has stood up well as an asset class while alternatives, It is rather simplistic to ignore the capital efficiencies which debt and particularly stock markets, have slumped.
provides by taking only the net discount.
Development As we announced at the interim stage, we have orchestrated our development programme to suit current market conditions.
Last year In brief, have you the stomach British Land and its joint ventures completed just under one million for it?
Like the Christmas Day sq ft at a construction cost of 115 million.
This space, already 90% swimmers in the Serpentine, let, will yield 13 million a year when fully leased.
A major element of this completed space was Centre West, the Its tree-lined parks are of 285,000 sq ft extension to the East Kilbride Shopping Centre in immeasurable importance to Scotland.
Centre West opened in March 2003, on time and on its ecology, absorbing carbon budget, and is already 89% committed.
dioxide and enabling the capital to breathe.
The British Land Company PLC Chairmans Statement The British Land Company PLC Chairmans Statement Tax The 2003 Budget contained some positive proposals for property companies.
We expect to gain from the proposed exclusion of disadvantaged areas from Stamp Duty, as some 3 billion of our 11 assets, including the Meadowhall and Eastgate Shopping Centres, Stockton-on-Tees Retail Park and Serpentine Green, Peterborough, are expected to be beneficiaries.
This is not a real bonus, just a redress of some of the previous retrospective levy.
On the other hand, the proposed hike in Stamp Duty on leases can hardly be described as helpful.
We are active within our industry, especially through the British Property Federation, in addressing the numerous and highly technical issues which may arise for our tenants.
Part of our remit is to research ways to improve the return we can offer to shareholders.
The prospect of tax transparent vehicles, also raised in the latest Budget, has clear attractions and if it materialises will be beneficial, and we have made our views known to H. M. Treasury and the Bank of England.
Thanks to careful British Lands dispositions for its own portfolio are carried out by specific conservation measures, a teams of surveyors and controllers working through our outsourced reduction in pollution and the agents, but there are several other distinctive operational features.
ready availability of a food The strength of the Meadowhall management team has brought supply, a whole ecosystem added value to our other shopping centres such as Eastgate in now thrives in Londons parks.
Basildon and East Kilbride in Scotland.
We have been able to pool Smokey and Snowy would be our resources to provide cross-fertilisation of initiatives and enjoy the very interested in the smaller benefits of scale.
Meadowhall has been the focus for our use of the new technologies.
GO SHOPs 70,000 cardholders use touch screen kiosks at Meadowhall to take advantage of special offers within the Centre, enabling retailers to target brands to specific groups.
The Meadowhall website now has 86,000 hits a day.
We have also launched a retailer warehousing and delivery service on site at Meadowhall, the ARC.
This enables retailers to consolidate storage, reduce delivery costs and improve stock replenishment and visibility through a data link between their store and the warehouse.
We have set up a joint venture company, Comgenic, with our software partners PoulterNet, selling the shopping centre management systems we have developed at Meadowhall to other shopping centre operators here and abroad.
Our own specialist building and estate management company, Broadgate Estates, provides services to the Group and to many other clients in Greater London.
It is a profit centre in its own right and more than half of its profits come from outside the Group.
It was at Broadgate that we launched Vicinitee, a website that offers local information and services to 60,000 desktops at tenants and occupiers.
It is now in use at 22 of our City buildings and six more at Regents Place, besides having been sold to landlords of six other buildings.
The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC Chairmans Statement Our collaboration with other major property investors continues.
We have taken an active position in PISCES, the standardised information exchange for the property industry, in Propex, the on-line property investment market, and in HSO, which provides high speed connections 13 for offices.
A Coded Message As I have reported before, we are conforming to the Lease Code, but finding little interest from takers.
My previous stated view that market forces rather than the Government can best handle commercial transactions has been reinforced by a recent advertisement in the property press.
A nationally known name wants to sell properties it currently owns and lease them back for 25 years with five yearly upward only rent reviews.
That is the choice of the prospective tenant, not of the oppressed landlord!
Our own very recent transactions with Deutsche Bank at Appold Street and with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, both at Broadgate, and both requiring long leases on an upward only rent review basis, show what sophisticated tenants seek to secure.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Late last year we published our first Environment and Social Report.
Our approach to investment, development and management of property is based on a clear appreciation of the economic environment and social objectives, and the need to take a long-term sustainable view of our operations.
Our staff have voluntarily undertaken a variety of projects in their local communities, from helping blind shoppers to teaching English as a second language to staff working in our shops.
In March 2003 the Home Secretary, the Rt.
From rollerblading M. P. opened The Source which we have built at Meadowhall.
The in Kensington Gardens to Real Tennis 34,000 sq ft Source has been welcomed by the local community as at Hampton Court, sporting activities it provides employment advice, various forms of training including IT, of all kinds are enjoyed in the Royal a gym and other leisure facilities, a crche and a coffee bar.
Henry VIII would, however, The non-productive element of corporate and social responbe disappointed to find they sibility is filling in those agonising questionnaires!
One of the leading are no longer used as royal institutional inquisitors in this field has 53 pages of questions and 58 hunting grounds.
Most adopt a one size fits all stance so that we, with very few employees, can be statistically compared with multinationals employing tens of thousands.
It really is time that the various researchers agreed on standard quiz sheets, tailored to differing sizes and types of enterprise, and stopped moving the goalposts every year.
Then we could concentrate on performing CSR profitably without the distraction of box-ticking for competing questioners.
We actively care for the environment and access for the community and together with our sponsorships have strong empathy for the public good and public art.
The new piazza at Regents Place in particular is exhilarating, with works by modern artists and magnificent lighting effects.
The British Land Company PLC Prospects For an 11 billion business our Board, executive and staff are not British Lands business model is designed to extract maximum large.
More than three quarters work directly at our properties, pribenefit from long-term property investment and development.
And marily Meadowhall and Broadgate, with around 150 at Head Office.
our strategy does just that: net assets per share and earnings per Especial thanks go to our exceptionally talented and skilled teams.
14 share have each tripled over the last ten years.
Because of the They share in creating a strong spirit and a congenial atmosphere in nature of property we adopt a long-term horizon, but that involves a the Company.
Their loyalty, enthusiasm and hard work are a great myriad of rapid response judgements, through buying and selling contribution to our success.
and leasing and refurbishing, and transactions to seize advantages wherever and whenever they arise.
We are at the mercy of economic Press-ganged!
wind and tide, and have to make decisions the efficacy of which will show up very clearly in future valuations and performance.
The market is cyclical and its pitfalls can be very damaging.
We are risk averse and so hedge property risk both by diversifying between sectors and by constructing or selecting well built assets of high quality in good locations, occupied on long leases by a spread of tenants who are themselves strong credits.
Risk on the finance side is also tightly controlled.
We fix the interest rates on a high proportion of debt, use a range of lenders and have a long average debt maturity.
At present the investment market remains strong, as do our assets.
The Board believes that shareholders can have every confidence in the Company, and that they hold a fine investment.
Corporate Governance Our corporate governance continues to evolve.
I stated at the 2002 Annual General Meeting that we would add to the Board, and we are fortunate to have found two exceptional new independent nonJohn Ritblat Chairman executive directors in Dr. Chris Gibson-Smith and Mr. David Michels.
After the AGM we will have a majority of non-executive directors on the Board.
Dr. Gibson-Smith is Chairman of National Air Traffic Services Ltd. and a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
Formerly he was Group Managing Director of BP plc.
Recently he has been appointed Chairman of the London Stock Exchange.
In March 2003 we appointed him Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Mr. Michels is Chief Executive of Hilton Group plc.
He is a nonexecutive director of Hilton Hotels Corporation and until recently was Sail before steam or splicing the a non-executive director of Arcadia plc.
The competitiveness We have also announced that the Boards Nomination Committee of model yacht captains sailing on has set out to select a new Chief Executive by the 2004 AGM.
the pond in Kensington Gardens Thereafter I will be remaining as Chairman for a period.
is as fierce as anything We are all more than grateful to our colleague and friend, Cyril witnessed in Cowes Week Metliss, who joined the Board as an executive director in 1971, and or in the property market.
stands down at the Annual General Meeting.
We will retain in an Tactics range from cerebral executive role the benefit of his experience, skill, perseverance and to thuggish.
acumen which have served the Company so well over the years.
The British Land Company PLC Chairmans Statement
