Chairmans Statement Vita delivered a robust underlying performin part to the adjustment necessary to corrance in 2003, despite a lack of significant ect the overstatement of 2002 profit in the US improvement in the global business environbusiness of approximately 3m.
Profits continued to grow in Vitas two Headline operating profit increased 7% in largest divisions, Cellular Polymers and both the Cellular Polymers division, to 33.2m Industrial Polymers.
Sales volumes have 31.1m, and the Industrial Polymers division, increased through new market and product to 23.9m 22.3m.
development and volatile raw material Sales rose 5% to 940.1m 893.7m on prices have been managed successfully.
Cellular PolyA number of organic and acquisition-based mers continued to drive cost efficiencies growth opportunities have been delivered whilst growing its Eastern European and techand integrated.
Only a poor result for the nical foam markets.
With completion of an Nonwovens division has detracted from an extensive rationalisation programme, profitotherwise creditable performance by the ability in Germany improved strongly.
rial Polymers integrated small bolt-on acqProfit before tax was 53.2m compared with uisitions in the colour, thermoplastic sheet 109.5m for the prior year.
Adjusting for goodand elastomer sectors, whilst developing its will amortisation and the prior year partial presence in the growth markets for compdisposal of our stake in Spartech, headline ounding in Eastern Europe and Asia-Pacific.
Nonwovens defended volumes but suffered Headline earnings per share were 20.6p margin reduction in an intensely competitive 22.3p and the dividend for the year has European market, whilst the US business is been increased by 4.4% to 11.75p 11.25p.
currently loss-making despite expansion into Excluding Associates, headline profit before new product areas.
The reduction from Headline profit before tax from Associates 2002 reflects the performance from our Nonwas 8.3m 14.2m reflecting the partial sale wovens division which dipped to an operatof our US Spartech investment during 2002 ing loss of 1.0m prior year profit 8.7m due for 99.7m.
This initial sale is funding a share 2 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com Given our strong financial position, we aim to deliver both organic and acquisitive growth alongside our ongoing programme of returning surplus capital to shareholders, thereby further enhancing shareholder value buy-back programme which to date has economic recovery have yet to be fulfilled.
repurchased 14% of issued share capital for Raw material prices have risen in some resin 80.8m.
The disposal of the final part of our markets and we expect to manage these Spartech investment was completed in changes effectively.
In this environment, Vita January 2004 raising a further 68m.
is confident that it can continue to perform The Group continued to achieve strong well, driving forward its strategy to grow the cash generation, with a net cash inflow from Cellular Polymers and Industrial Polymers operating activities of 89.8m 101.5m.
divisions, whilst improving the performance After the buy-back, year-end net debt prior of the smaller Nonwovens division.
Given our to the second Spartech disposal was 54.9m strong financial position, we aim to deliver 24.6m and year-end gearing was 16% 7%.
both organic and acquisitive growth alongOn 1 January 2004 I succeeded Jim Mercer side our ongoing programme of returning as Chairman of British Vita.
I would like to surplus capital to shareholders, thereby express my thanks to Jim for his dedication further enhancing shareholder value.
to Vita during his 35 years service including 8 as a director.
In August we welcomed Keith Hopkins to the Board as a non-executive director.
On 29 February 2004 Filiep Libeert resigned from the Board after 27 years with the Company.
Good businesses are created by able and dedicated people and in this respect I thank D. Cotterill all of our management and employees for 1 March 2004 their part in making Vita the strong and vibrant company it is today.
Market conditions in the early part of 2004 are showing some signs of improvement, Headline information is stated before goodwill although any expectations of full-scale amortisation and profit on disposal of businesses.
