PAGE 02 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2003 has been a particularly exciting year for the Chrysalis Chairmans Group, in which we have produced our best ever results, statement further delivered on our corporate strategy and in doing so delivered value to shareholders.
2003 was a busy year: the acquisition I am delighted to welcome you to the 2003 annual Similarly, we hope that the extensive restructuring and relaunch of LBC, the disposals of report.
The 2003 financial year has been a particularly of the Chrysalis Books division that has taken place Galaxy 101 and TV and the restructuring exciting year for the Chrysalis Group, in which we over the course of the 2003 financial year, will result at Books, all capped by Heart becoming have been able to deliver our best ever results.
It has in a realisation of value for shareholders over the the most listened to commercial station in London!
We think important platforms also been a year in which we have further executed medium term.
have now been laid for future growth, on our corporate strategy and in doing so delivered while the quality of group earnings value for shareholders.
These excellent operational performances have continues to improve greatly.
enabled us to report our best ever financial results.
Richard Menzies-Gow Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Our consistent strategy of focusing on areas where Revenues for the Chrysalis Group grew by 4.5% we are able to prove ourselves as a strong and creative to 246 million and operating profits reached business has undoubtedly helped Chrysalis Radio to 10.4 million.
Excluding the acquisition of LBC, outperform its peer group this year.
Over the past 12 operating profits grew by 46.8% to 15.5 million.
months, the advertising market has proved once again Our profit before tax reached 23.9 million.
to be unpredictable, with no industry wide return to stable growth.
Chrysalis Radio, however, managed to This record level of profitability has allowed us to buck industry trends and deliver revenue growth of increase the final dividend per share by over 50% 14% against the radio markets growth of just 3%.
The progressive introduction of a higher The key to our success is the consistency with which level of dividend payment reects the progress we we manage our portfolio of brands, and I believe have made in becoming a company with reliable that this is one of the core reasons that Heart 106.2 cash ows and sustainable levels of profitability.
has been able to overtake Capital 95.8 in the all This increased final dividend is declared in addition important London marketplace.
The acquisition of to the special dividend of 5p that shareholders received the two LBC stations in September 2002, followed in September 2003, following the completion of the by the successful re-launch in January 2003, has also sale of our television activities.
been a highlight for the radio division.
All of this puts us in a strong position to sustain our radio industry It is a credit to our management team and all Chrysalis outperformance into 2004. employees that we have yet again produced such strong financial and operational performances across The results from Chrysaliss Music division are further our businesses and delivered on our corporate strategy.
testament to our ability to outperform our industry We are extremely fortunate in having such talented peers.
At a time when the music industry has regularly people working across all of our divisions, whose hard hit the headlines with the widespread phenomena work, creativity, pride and passion make Chrysalis the of piracy and illegal downloading, our music division special company it is today.
The 2004 financial year has once again been able to deliver excellent growth.
has already got off to an excellent start, and I look In particular, the 9.4% increase in our music publishing forward to another year of industry outperformance, divisions Net Publishers Share is a remarkable putting us in a great position to benefit from the achievement against such a gloomy background.
changes brought about by the introduction of I feel confident that this outperformance will continue the new Communications Act.
as Chrysalis Music is increasingly able to offer artists and writers a safe-haven in these times of great change that the industry continues to experience.
The restructuring and subsequent disposal of Chrysalis Television in August 2003 underscores our strategy to focus our businesses on areas where we believe we will be able to deliver sustainable outperformance.
After a period of restructuring and restoring the television Chris Wright division to health we were able to sell the business for Chairman Q3 2003 Rajar Survey 50.8 million, well ahead of market expectations.
com PAGE 03 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Radio Heart 106.2s breakfast team, Jono and Harriet.
Nick Ferrari, whose mid morning phone-in show on LBC 97.3 showed an increase in reach of 58% since the stations relaunch in January, will be moving to host the weekday breakfast show from January 2004.
Music The Echo Label act Feeder enjoyed huge success with their album Comfort in Sound, which followed up their previous album Echo Park.
Both albums have achieved Platinum status.
Synchronisation has been the fastest growing area of our Music Publishing division this year.
You were the last high by The Dandy Warhols was used in the latest Tomb Raider lm.
Books Within book publishing we have increased our focus on series based titles and had particular success with the Food Doctor series from the trade division and the Then and Now series from the contract division.
