Chairmans Statement We have put in place a new management team and the firepower to take advantage of opportunities which will become available Richard Peskin Overview Chairman As I reflect on the past twelve months, I am pleased to be able to report positive progress in challenging markets.
Just over a year ago Toby Courtauld was appointed as the new Chief Executive at a time when the Company had been largely transformed into a focused, central London investment and development business, with an appropriate debt and gearing structure.
Since then, assisted by Robert Noel, he has put together a strong property team, who have not only continued the momentum of change, but also thoroughly reappraised the existing portfolio, whilst adhering to the traditional principles of sound property management for asset enhancement.
In the prevailing climate we have addressed the key issue of preservation of income, paying particular attention to the elimination of current and potential voids.
Results The results for the year under review are, once again, somewhat distorted by the recent 3 activities and by the purchase in April 2002 of the 130 million 10 4% Debenture 2021.
Not only did this prove to be exceptionally well-timed but, more importantly, gave us the flexibility to dispose of assets which had hitherto been encumbered.
Nearly one quarter of the investment properties has been sold at an aggregate figure in line with the March 2002 valuation, a notable achievement in tough conditions.
The remaining portfolio fell by 10% in the same period which, coupled with the loss on the debenture purchase, has left diluted net asset value per share at 287p and triple net asset value per share at 276p.
Meanwhile, adjusted earnings per share have risen to 13.3p and your directors are recommending a final dividend of 6.83p, making a total for the year of 10.25p, up 2.5%.
As I said at the interim stage, your Board continues to attach great importance to the level of dividend as an integral part of total shareholder return, where we have outperformed the main indices since January 2000.
Board During the year there have been significant Board changes, with Toby Courtauld and Robert Noel being appointed Chief Executive and Property Director respectively.
Howard Perlin, who has been an exemplar of corporate governance and wise counsel since 1994, will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting in July and I would like to place on record my personal appreciation of his substantial contribution.
Kathleen ODonovan who, inter alia, is Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Court of the Bank of England, joined us on 1 April.
On corporate governance generally I, 6 Annual Report 2003 Chairmans Statement along with many other Chairmen of listed companies, have reservations about some of the Higgs reforms and it is to be hoped that the Financial Reporting Council will consider some redrafting before implementation.
Meanwhile, we do comply with the vast majority of the recommendations and, where not, we have chosen explanation rather than fulmination.
Conclusion The markets in which we operate remain challenging and may well do so for slightly longer than some commentators had previously anticipated.
Nevertheless, we have put in place a new management team and the firepower to take advantage of the opportunities which will become available, particularly in the West End.
The recent purchase of Metropolis House is the start of a sensibly structured short and mediumterm development programme, including sites which have been carefully assembled over the years.
In conclusion, your Board remains committed to the strategy, which has been rigorously implemented for over four years, to provide a focused central London portfolio with an appropriate capital structure and with the aim of delivering maximum shareholder value.
Richard Peskin Chairman Chairmans Statement Annual Report 2003 7 Kingsway t c u d a i V n r o b l o C H h e a p s Wall i d n e r o b l o H In an area with a heavy reliance on Financial Services, we have been derisking our City portfolio FARRINGDON BARBICAN CHANCERY LANE MOORGATE LIVERPOOL STREET London HOLBORN CITY THAMESLINK Camomile ALDGATE ST PAULS Street BANK MANSION HOUSE MONUMENT BANK 8 Annual Report 2003 h High Holborn c y w r d e L Bishopsgate t l a t n Moorgate e e A F The Groups largest tenant, Willis, The Group has no voids across extended its lease at 1 Camomile Street, its City and Holborn portfolio EC2 from 2004 to 2011 during the year Annual Report 2003 9
