Chairmans statement Peter G. Birch Chairman Over the past 12 months, against a background of world instability and uncertainty in global economies and financial markets, the Groups results continue to demonstrate the fundamental benefits of a soundly financed and well managed asset-backed business.
The investment portfolio valuation benefited from a strong performance by our retail assets which substantially offset the impact of the downturn in the central London office markets.
Adjusted diluted net asset value per share has increased by 5.2% to 1215p.
This represents good progress given the difficult market conditions.
The protection afforded to shareholders by our diversified portfolio, the quality of our occupiers and strong revenues from Land Securities Trillium underpins the Groups progressive dividend policy and we are increasing the dividend by 1.5p, maintaining our long record of year-onyear increases.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Chairmans statement Our strategy Our achievements Our objectives More than three years ago we recognised We are still in the process of delivering our While the achievement of our objectives is that asset accumulation alone would no strategy and five year business plan which aim always influenced by market and economic longer deliver sufficient shareholder returns in to create long-term and sustainable returns conditions we have made good progress to a period of low inflation.
To mitigate this we for our shareholders.
date and remain on track to continue to grow reviewed our business, its operations and areas the business.
Our future objectives will be to: of activity.
In the period since announcing the restructuring of our business our Focus on our customers with products Since then our core objectives have been to: achievements include: that meet their needs.
Continue to grow our total property Focus our investment portfolio on four Restructuring the business into three units, outsourcing business by winning new sectors of the UK commercial property which allows for the efficient allocation contracts and expanding existing ones.
market which we believe will benefit in the of capital and effective performance long-term from constraints on land supply.
measurement of both our activities and Complete and let our development our people.
Increase the scale of our development activities and operate in areas which are less Completing 1,360m of sales and 840m Maximise the returns from our accessible for competitors without our of property acquisitions.
2 Completing 300,000m of development Build and retain the best team in the 2 Enter into total property outsourcing which and starting over 500,000m of new property industry.
is still an immature market that we believe schemes.
Focus on earnings generation from our has strong growth prospects, as evidenced Winning two major new total property capital investment to drive total returns.
by the success we have had, since acquiring outsourcing contracts with the BBC and BT, Trillium, in winning new contracts.
through the Telereal joint venture.
Develop our people to ensure that they have Enhancing our skills base through the the appropriate skills to deliver our objectives.
recruitment of new people at all levels Ensure that we have an appropriate capital of the business.
Returning more than 500m of equity to Promote better relationships with our our shareholders.
Continuing our unbroken record of growing our dividend at an average growth rate per annum of 4.6%.
Providing a total return of nearly 11%, as compared to a FTSE 100 Index total return of negative 40% and a positive 3% for FTSE Real Estate 31 March 2000 to 31 March 2003.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 05 Chairmans statement Results The Board recommends a final dividend of Government This years figures have been impacted by a 26p per share, making a total distribution for We have for some time been lobbying number of exceptional factors.
These include the year of 35.5p.
The dividends paid and Government on our own behalf and through the return of capital, higher interest payments the British Property Federation to ensure that proposed will be covered 1.4 times by post-tax and certain costs relating to financing profits.
The dividend will be paid on 28 July it understands clearly the potential damage transactions.
Pre-tax profit of 319.6m, which 2003 to shareholders on the register on of year-on-year increases in stamp duty.
is posted after the exceptional costs, 27 June 2003.
Not only does this taxation unfairly penalise including those incurred on various financial property as an asset class compared to bonds transactions, decreased by 43.9m.
Revenue and equities, but it also reduces liquidity in the Investment portfolio valuation profit our measure of underlying pre-tax Our total investment portfolio was valued at market and impacts the flow of capital into profits also decreased by 6.6% to 340.9m, 7.84bn 2002: 7.81bn, representing a 0.4% major regeneration projects.
We believe that mainly as a result of 13.5m of additional Government is beginning to recognise this and increase in assets.
After adjusting for sales, interest incurred to finance the return of acquisitions and expenditure the value were pleased that this duty was not increased capital and the dilutive effect of sales in the again this year, but rather was reduced in reduced on a like-for-like basis by 0.6% as past two years.
Adjusted earnings per share compared to the prior year.
The retail and some areas where Government is hoping to calculated on revenue profits were 2.4% retail warehouse portfolios performed encourage regeneration.
lower at 50.39p per share 2002: 51.61p particularly well, with 7.8% and 10.0% per share.
increases in value respectively, demonstrating We are also grateful that Government has continued to leave the way open for dialogue the benefits of the high levels of asset Activity levels remained high.
The Group management activity and the more resilient on issues such as stamp duty on leases and realised 436.3m from the sale of properties retail markets.
This strong contribution to the lease-code reforms.
We believe that the and the release of equity from the London industry has come a long way in terms of performance of our portfolio from retail has Hilton and received a total of 80.6m in been offset, once again this year, by a decrease providing occupiers with a wide range of capital repayments from Telereal.
We invested accommodation and lease terms and that in value in our central London holdings.
613.2m in our portfolio, development Further details of the valuation results are undue taxation and regulation will prevent activities and total property outsourcing.
The contained in the business analysis section our markets from operating efficiently.
Group also completed a capital restructuring on pages 68 to 83. which resulted in a return of capital of 511.1m to shareholders last September.
A further 18.8m of B shares were redeemed in April, 2003, leaving 11.5m outstanding.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 06 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Chairmans statement Given the Governments commitment to We would also like to thank Giles Henderson, In our view, retail currently offers greater urban regeneration and attracting capital who stepped down from the Board as a nonpotential for total returns than offices in the investment into these major, long-term and executive director in November, for his short term.
For Land Securities Trillium, market complex projects, we would encourage contribution to the Groups progress.
We are conditions are more attractive, as corporations it to consider a more tax-efficient vehicle delighted that Stuart Rose has agreed to join continue to seek operational efficiencies and to encourage international and domestic the Board as an independent non-executive ways to release capital for investment in their investment in the UK property sector.
director, bringing substantial retail expertise core activities, both of which can be achieved While most other G7 countries now have to the Group.
We are assessing the impact of through total property outsourcing.
tax-efficient vehicles, known as real estate the Higgs and Smith recommendations on investment trusts, we believe our ability to corporate governance and audit committees.
While the economic outlook remains attract new equity investment to fund In due course, we will appoint a senior challenging, both in the UK and around the regeneration projects is being undermined independent director and create a Board world, the diversified nature of the Groups by the tax position of the UK quoted nominations committee.
activities, its sound financial base, strong property company.
management team and focus on customer People service mean that we are on track to continue The Board We have a great team in place and, during to deliver our strategy.
The Boards confidence In January 2003, the Board announced that the year, my colleagues throughout the in the fundamental soundness of your Ian Henderson, Group chief executive, had organisation have continued to demonstrate business is demonstrated by the increased accepted its invitation to remain in his enthusiasm and a positive approach to the final dividend payment.
position beyond his normal retirement date of new way in which we are conducting our July to oversee and implement the delivery business and the changes for them that this of our plans and to allow for continuity of entails.
I would like to thank them for their leadership.
Francis Salway was appointed to valued contribution to our progress.
the new role of chief operating officer, taking on a wider operational role supporting Ian Outlook Henderson, while retaining his responsibilities During the 12 months under review, property as chief executive of Development.
Mark as an asset class continued to perform Collins and Ian Ellis, chief executives of strongly, showing a total return of 9.3% as Portfolio Management and Land Securities compared to 11.3% for bonds and a negative Trillium respectively, were appointed to the return of 30.0% for equities reflecting Board in November 2002. investors current preference for low-risk, cash positive investments.
Demand for investment property with long-term leases continues to be strong while interest rates remain low.
