chairmans statement 77 11 0033 The resilience and robustness of our business model has delivered significant sales growth, both organically and through a programme of strategic acquisitions, profit before exceptional items and amortisation and positive cash flow in a year in which the travel industry has faced uncertainty from the Iraq war, SARS and the persistent threat of terrorism.
coms existing travel and Business performance leisure offerings, is a further component 2003 has been a year of continuing for the Groups dynamic packaging transformation for the Group.
Departure product and has provided an enhanced based TTV has grown from 246.0 million gross margin and geographic extension in 2002 to 552.4 million in 2003, an for the enlarged Groups customers.
The final quarter, the Integration into the Group has started strongest quarter for the key travel sector and we are pleased to report that of lastminute.
com, delivered TTV of 222.3 its performance is in line with the million Q4 2002: 112.4 million, an expectations set at the time of acquisition.
1144 22 0033 In September, we raised approximately The significant profit before exceptional 102.6 million of unsecured convertible items and amortisation delivered in the bonds.
This enables us to: last two quarters has resulted in the from our joint venture partner, Sol Group being profitable for the year as a fund small scale acquisitions in growing Meli, for 6.0 million.
In addition, the Group has European markets and in the lifestyle businesses in Spain, one of the fastest generated EBITDA of 15.0 million and categories of our business growing European online travel markets, positive operating cashow of 13.5 accelerate the delivery of a number of will enable us to further strengthen our million for the financial year.
This is an development projects which will bring position in Europe.
extremely important milestone for the significant operational efficiencies and Group and has been achieved ahead of A strong pipeline of acquisition enhance conversion of lookers to the forecasts established at the time of opportunities is available in a number of bookers otation.
Full details of acquisitions will be invest in key brands across Europe.
published when they are completed.
Strategic acquisitions and convertible bond offering This convertible bond was the first issued Board In April, the Group completed its by an internet company in Europe.
I would like to take this opportunity to acquisition of holiday autos group for Demand for the convertible in the prethank Laurent Laffy and Vimal Khosla, 39.0 million.
The acquisition has moved marketing was extremely strong.
who stepped down from the Board in us considerably closer to our goal of March and July 2003 respectively, for We used a small part of these funds in delivering 1 billion of TTV with significant their valuable contributions to the Group.
September 2003 for the repurchase of the margins and EBITDA in the medium term.
com Spain It is a logical extension to 2 lastminute.
com plc annual report 2003 1155 44 0033 Clive Jacobs joined the Board as Executive We are pleased to announce that with The macro trends for internet usage Vice Chairman in April 2003, following the effect from 20 November 2003 Ian McCaig, throughout Europe are very positive and acquisition of holiday autos.
Clive has who was appointed Chief Operating officer moving in our favour.
We have strengthened extensive experience in the travel industry in August 2003, will join the Board.
Ian our position as the clear European leader gained over the past eighteen years.
has held senior positions at Nokia, most in the online travel and leisure market and recently as Vice President, 3G Operations, are well placed to take advantage of the During the year, we have appointed two managing 500 people in seven markets.
continued growth in the sector.
We remain further Non-Executive Directors, Agns confident of further developments during Touraine and Sven Boinet.
Agns has On behalf of the Board I would like to 2004 in all key metrics.
significant strategic planning and senior welcome Clive, Agns, Sven and Ian to management experience, principally lastminute.
com and wish them every within the media and publishing sectors success in their new roles.
and Sven brings a wealth of knowledge Outlook of the global hotels business.
Our plans to achieve synergies of Martha Lane Fox, lastminute.
coms Group 4.0 million through the integration Allan Leighton Managing Director, has told the Board of holiday autos have been developed Chairman that she wants to stand down from her during the fourth quarter of 2003 and 20 November 2003 executive role at the end of 2003.
Martha will be delivered from the beginning of will be staying on with the Company as the new financial year.
a Non-Executive Director and, of course, The first quarter of 2004 has started well as a major shareholder.
and will benefit from the strong order The Company would like to thank her book carried forward at the end of the for her invaluable contribution and wish 2003 financial year.
In addition, with the her every success in her new career.
funding raised through our convertible lastminute.
com plc is delighted that bond offering, the Group is in a strong Martha will remain on the Board as a Nonposition to continue its programme of Executive Director and that the Group will strategic acquisitions.
These acquisitions continue to benefit from her knowledge will supplement the significant organic and experience of the online industry as growth currently being delivered.
The travel industry, technology applications and lifestyle trends in Europe continue to be very positive and move in lastminute.
