Aegis has continued to grow ahead of the market and shown progress against key financial measures.
This attests to the quality of our businesses and to managements ability to deliver growth in difficult market conditions.
Letter to Shareholders Dear Shareholder significantly ahead of the estimated global market growth of 3.4%.
Vizeum, our new 2003 was a good year for Aegis.
We grew media brand, is now a reality in the revenues significantly ahead of the market European market with a network of 17 and produced record profits.
offices and with billings in excess of $1.5 billion.
Looking to our future, During the year we continued to invest in Vizeum offers the Group real opportunity our key business areas, allowing us to to expand the core media planning & build strong organisations to service an buying business.
There is no doubt that the investment made in We have continued to expand the breadth recent years in developing these business and diversity of services we offer clients.
has allowed us to maintain growth in a Our outdoor media business, Posterscope, difficult trading environment.
and our interactive operations, once both collections of small, local businesses have Despite war in Iraq and a new epidemic each been consolidated into substantial with SARS in Asia, 2003 will be regarded international networks in their own right.
In as the year that the advertising recovery addition, the Group operates in a range of began.
There was a clear positive trend in communication services, mostly under the North America for most of the year and this Carat brand name, including brand and was followed by a strong recovery in much marketing consultancy, contract publishing, of Asia-Pacific, with the notable exception of data planning, direct marketing, sponsorship Japan.
In Europe, although growth was and public relations.
Together with marginal, there was evidence of some local interactive and outdoor media, these market recovery in the latter part of the businesses now account for around a year.
Our forecasts indicate somewhat quarter of our media revenues.
stronger growth in 2004 particularly driven by the quadrennial effect of the Olympics, the US presidential election and the football championship in Europe.
Our media business, of which Carat is the largest part, grew turnover by 15.0%, 2003 Change % 2002 Revenue 648.8m 9.6% 591.9m Gross Margin 8.0% n a 8.3% Underlying Profit before Tax 80.5m 12.7% 71.4m Underlying Basic EPS 4.9p 11.4% 4.4p Dividend 1.32p 5.6% 1.25p Underlying PBT and EPS are before charging goodwill amortisation of 35.7m 2002: 23.2m and exceptional credits of 3.2m 2002: charges of 13.5m.
UK GAAP basic EPS is 1.9p 2002: 1.2p and UK GAAP profit before tax is 48.0m 2002: 34.7m.
A reconciliation of the underlying profit to UK GAAP profit is set out on page 6.
3 Letter to Shareholders Our research business, Synovate, grew The share price, the real measure of strongly with revenues up 8.0% and with investor confidence, rose 26.2% in the 12 all regions performing well.
2003 was an months to 31 December 2003 ahead of the important year in the development of FTSE All Share Media and Entertainment Synovate as its operations were forged Sector Index.
into a single integrated worldwide network.
Margins were affected as considerable We now employ over 8,500 highly skilled investment was made in management and people in over 60 countries around the systems infrastructure, data collection world and the achievements are theirs.
Synovate is now On behalf of the Board and shareholders one of only a handful of research networks we would like to thank them all for capable of providing marketers with a full the hard work, determination and service global research capability.
The commitment they have shown during a acquisition of Isis allowed Synovate to very challenging period.
establish an international healthcare research agency with the first global cancer care We also wish to thank John Amerman, audit.
Another acquisition, Censydiam, has Lord Hannay, Bruno Kemoun and Eryck given us the opportunity to use Synovates Rebbouh, who stepped down from the global network to extend the outstanding Board, for their valued contribution.
position this company has in applied motivational psychology.
The Board welcomes three new nonexecutive directors, Daniel Farrar, Charles Our continued investment means that our Strauss and Leslie Van fide Walle.
businesses are well placed to benefit from any upturn in the market allowing us to Corporate governance has been a widely service an increasingly global client base.
discussed topic in 2003 and the Board has This is a sound strategy.
There is clear reviewed its compliance with The Combined Code.
During the year we also introduced a evidence that those companies that innovate and invest in their operations comprehensive set of management are the ones that will ultimately perform guidelines in the form of a Policies ahead of their peer group.
We confidently and Procedures manual.
We also made anticipate that the strategy we have progress in terms of our assessment and management of risk.
followed will increase our revenue prospects and will lead to higher shareholder value.
Many of the initiatives undertaken in 2003 will be important for the Groups growth Our financial results for the year reflect prospects.
In particular, the new structures in place within Aegis media and market the solid progress that we have made.
Revenue was up 9.6% to 648.8 million research operations have been designed to 2002: 591.9 million.
Taking out the open up opportunities that were previously effect of acquisitions, organic revenue unavailable.
The Board is confident that the growth was 4.7%.
Underlying profit before Group will see further improvements to its tax was up 12.7% to 80.5 million 2002: market position and financial performance 71.4 million.
Underlying diluted EPS over the coming year.
In line with Lord Sharman this, the Board is recommending a final Chairman dividend of 0.80 pence per ordinary share, making 1.32 pence per ordinary share for Doug Flynn the full year.
Chief Executive Officer Underlying operating profit, PBT and EPS are before charging goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
4 Our steady investment in the business throughout this industrys deepest marketing services recession has resulted in a clear improvement in the strategic position of our key media and research businesses and this will be important for the Groups growth prospects.
With the adspend market back into the cycle of positive growth the benefits of these initiatives are expected to materialise in 2004 and beyond.
Given the improving market conditions we are optimistic that Aegis will see further improvements to its financial performance over the coming year.
