I am pleased to report an excellent set 2002: 5.8p, an increase of 20.7%.
Chairmans statement of results for Computacenter in 2003.
This is consistent with our policy, Profit before tax rose 18.3% to 65.2 announced last year, of maintaining a million 2002: 55.1 million.
Earnings dividend cover of broadly 3.5 times.
per share increased by 22.5% to 25.0p The final dividend will be paid on 2002: 20.4p.
The Group continued to 1 June 2004 to shareholders on Our key priorities in generate cash from operations, and the the register as at 7 May 2004.
2003 were the further balance sheet remained strong, with net funds at the year-end of 49.9 million Computacenters strategy in recent development of our 2002: 83.4 million.
years has been to build a strong services activities and services business to complement its the integration of CC These results are particularly satisfying product logistics offering and to expand when viewed against the background its presence in the major European CompuNet in Germany.
of an unprecedented price decline in markets.
Consistent with these goals, We made good progress the IT industry in Europe, driven largely our key priorities in 2003 were the further with both.
by the fall in the US dollar against both development of our services activities sterling and the euro.
Over the course and the integration of CC CompuNet of the year, the price of desktops, in Germany.
We made good progress laptops and Wintel servers in our with both.
three core markets all declined in the order of 15% to 25% in local currency.
In the UK, Managed Services revenues Computacenter buys and sells product grew by 10.9%, making a significant in local currencies and therefore has no financial contribution.
Of particular note material foreign exchange exposures was the five-year Managed Services arising from operations.
Nevertheless, contract awarded to Computacenter the falling prices inevitably affected our by Abbey, through which we will provide revenues and product margins, although a company-wide end-to-end desktop this was partly mitigated by growth in service at all Abbeys offices and our product volumes.
During the year, we continued the revenues of the German and Austrian to invest heavily in developing the skills businesses acquired during the course and technologies to maintain ourselves of the year, Group revenues fell 6.7% to at the forefront of desktop outsourcing.
Group revenues, including acquisitions rose The German acquisition represents a 28.8% to 2.48 billion.
major step forward for the Group.
In addition to its strong product logistics I am pleased to recommend a final business, CC CompuNet has a significant dividend of 5.0p per share, bringing services element in its portfolio, which the total dividend for the year to 7.0p supports our objective of building Ron Sandler Chairman 4 Computacenter plc contracted revenue streams.
Following Computacenter Board, and I am the acquisition, an extensive integration delighted with the appointment of programme has been pursued to align Ghislain Lescuyer as a Non-Executive CC CompuNets operations with those Director.
Ghislain, who joined the of Computacenter UK and adopt best Board on 19 January 2004, brings practice across the Group.
a wealth of experience in managing European technology businesses This has gone according to plan and and we will benefit greatly from his has established firm foundations for skills and background.
In 2003, CC CompuNet produced an operating The improvement in our product volumes profit of 8.7 million.
An ancillary in 2003, although clearly stimulated by benefit of this integration programme the large price declines, provides some is that it has led us to create a panevidence that our markets are beginning European management structure for to recover from the downturn of recent Computacenter, which will enhance years.
The growing demand for XP rollthe Groups ability to contribute to the outs that we experienced as the year management of the French operations.
progressed is a further encouraging sign.
Whilst much depends upon the pace and Computacenter France performed poorly sustainability of the broader economic in a difficult market, with an operating recovery in Europe, there are grounds loss of 2.7 million 2002: profit of for optimism that market conditions may 2.4 million after the release of negative now improve.
However, determined efforts positioned to take advantage of any began in the second half of the year to such improvement.
transfer best practice to France from the UK and to improve the cost efficiency As always, the credit for the Groups of the French business.
Considerable performance belongs to the staff.
savings have already been achieved.
The pleasing results in 2003 are Although much remains to be done to attributable to the skills, enthusiasm bring the profit margin of Computacenter and commitment of our employees, to France to an acceptable level, an whom I offer my wholehearted thanks.
intensive turn-around programme is underway and I am confident that this will yield positive results.
It is appropriate that the increasingly international nature of our business is reflected in the composition of the UK Managed Services contract base, Ron Sandler year-end 1999 to 2003 million Chairman 74.8 87.6 103.6 143.6 152.4 99 00 01 02 03 Computacenter plc 5
