After a year of good growth we have been able to report first class These results underline the strength of the SRH group: results, with good performances from our two divisions radio and and the strong growth in revenues and operating press.
We are very pleased with the groups progress during a year profits in our radio and press divisions is extremely which benefited from strong organic growth enhanced by the acquisitions made last year.
Both divisions produced outstanding performances during a year of still challenging market Turnover from continuing operations, excluding acquisitions during the year, grew by 18% from 70.5m to 83.0m: turnover from acquisitions conditions.
SRH is well placed for continued growth amounted to 0.5m.
Group operating profit excluding goodwill with its portfolio of radio stations in recognised amortisation from continuing operations rose by 26% to 19.0m geographical marketing areas and well-established 2002 15.1m.
The new financial year has started well Profit before interest, exceptionals and goodwill amortisation from with group revenues from continuing operations continuing activities was 19.4m 2002 14.5m.
Adjusted earnings per share rose by 26% to 37.2p 2002 29.5p after adding back 11% ahead of the same period last year.
goodwill amortisation and excluding exceptional items.
The group had net borrowings of 51.7m at 30 September 2003.
The board is recommending an increase of 8% in the final dividend from 12.0p to 13.0p which, together with the 8% increase in the interim dividend paid in July 2003, will produce a total for the year of 19.5p, an increase of 8% on last year.
Analogue Radio It is just under 30 years since the first of our stations, Radio Clyde, went on air.
SRH is now a prominent radio player in Scotland, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, with an increasing presence in England.
All our stations enjoy considerable autonomy and are able to reflect the view of their listeners that their area is the main centre of interest.
This belief in local programming sits well with our consistent emphasis on the importance of local advertising sales a policy which has cushioned us against the worst effects of the recession in national advertising revenue of recent years.
With our own strong national sales force, we are well-positioned to take advantage of any improvement in the national marketplace.
the chairmans statement 10 srh annual report and accounts 2003 Digital and Internet Corporate Governance Our strategy on internet and digital developments is proceeding well.
We include a statement on corporate governance elsewhere in this report.
The company also made a submission during the consultation The groups radio station websites have been further developed across period following the publication of the Higgs Report.
Despite Higgs the year and are proving increasingly popular with listeners featuring himself counselling otherwise, we remain concerned that there may be competitions, presenter profiles, news, programming and other an increase in box ticking by some investors.
In particular, we take issue information.
with some of the litmus paper tests for independence set out in the draft Our digital radio development programme continues to plan with six code, precisely because we feel that the explain or comply doctrine digital multiplexes now operational in Glasgow, Edinburgh, Ayr, Dundee, will not sufficiently guarantee intelligent exceptions to what will rapidly Inverness and Northern Ireland.
All the companies major analogue become rules.
We would argue that the licences have been granted formal extensions by the Radio Authority.
independence required is found when there is immunity from undue influence by the executive directors or the companys major customers Score Press or suppliers.
That should be the sole test for being recognised as being Score Press has concentrations of interest in Scotland, Northern Ireland independent.
I hold myself available for discussion with any of our major and the Republic of Ireland, where we have become a significant media shareholders on our views and theirs on corporate governance.
Of the 43 local weekly newspapers currently published there are 15 in Scotland, 23 in Northern Ireland and 5 in the Republic of Ireland.
Board and staff With the addition of four new titles last year we are pleased with the I am grateful to all our groups staff, whose dedication and enthusiasm continuing successful development of our Score Press division.
is the foundation for our continuing growth.
Our group structure is relatively flat and our two divisions are carefully monitored by our Profit from continuing operations was 9.6m, an increase of 30% executive team.
I am especially grateful to Richard Findlay, our Chief compared with last year.
The profit margin on continuing activities Executive, who has driven forward the strategic acquisitions and was 30% 2002 27%.
Total Score Press revenues from continuing disposals we have made in recent years and which have taken us operations increased by 17% over last year.
Communications Act Current trading and outlook The Communications Act received Royal Assent on 17 July 2003, creating Trading for the first two months of the new financial year has shown OFCOM which will combine the regulatory functions of the Independent an increase in like-for-like group revenue.
We look forward to good Television Commission, the Radio Authority, the Radio Communications prospects across the group as a whole in the current year and beyond.
Agency, the Broadcasting Standards Commission and OFTEL.
The new regulator will formally take over on 29 December 2003 and we wish it well.
While almost certainly its proactive agenda will be distorted by the immediate necessity of reacting to events, there are welcome signs that its approach in radio will involve a deliberate pause, during which it will consult widely with the radio industry on the most effective way of Lord Gordon of Strathblane CBE delivering its regulatory objectives.
Chairman The radio ownership rules are a distinct improvement on what went 20 November 2003 before, but the attitude of the competition authorities will still be crucial.
Having given the green light to the merger between Carlton and Granada, it would surely appear logical to allow a little more integration in both radio and local press.
