Chairmans statement After a year of extremely challenging conditions in Londons West End, I am pleased to report growth in both our net assets and operating profit After a year of extremely challenging conditions in Acquisitions during the year totalled 14.4 million, Londons West End, I am pleased to report growth mainly in Covent Garden, an area in which we aim in both our net assets and operating profit.
Notwithstanding market conditions, it is clear that, in our areas, there has Shareholders funds as at 30th September 2003 been a reluctance by owners to sell their property totalled 386.4 million, equivalent to an undiluted investments.
However, we have taken advantage net asset value per share of 2.93.
This compares of the strength of demand in the investment market with shareholders funds of 375.6 million and an to sell our two remaining non-core predominantly undiluted net asset value per share of 2.85 at the office properties, realising 6.2 million, marginally previous year end.
This represents an increase of above last years valuation.
8p per share, an uplift of 2.8% over the year.
Our property portfolio has been externally valued Profit on ordinary activities before asset disposals at 30th September 2003 at 730.8 million, resulting and taxation for the year ended 30th September in a revaluation surplus of 7.7 million.
Of this 2003 amounted to 12.3 million, compared with total value, shops and restaurants account for 10.9 million in 2002.
Disposals of non-core approximately 72%, offices 20% and residential investment assets during the year produced a small 8%.
In some cases, yields have moved by between surplus over book value compared with last years 0.25% and 0.5% in our favour, reflecting both the surplus of 2.1 million.
As a result, this years profit strong investment market and low interest rates.
Our after disposals amounted to 12.3 million, compared success in securing lettings of our retail and office with 13.0 million last year.
schemes, particularly in Carnaby and Kingly Court, After provision for current and deferred taxation has removed much of the uncertainty reflected in of 4.1 million 2002 - 3.3 million, profit after last years valuation.
Our valuers caution regarding disposals and taxation amounted to 8.2 million short leases and vacant accommodation has 2002 - 9.7 million.
contributed to write-downs totalling 8.0 million in the values of our investments at Wellington Your Directors are pleased to recommend an increased House and Thomas Neals.
final dividend of 2.54p per share 2002 - 2.31p.
Together with the interim dividend of 1.375p per The estimated total rental value of our portfolio share, this will bring the total dividend for the year at the year end was approximately 51.5 million to 3.915p, an increase of 10% over last years total per annum.
Within this total, the estimated rental distribution of 3.56p per share.
With our growing value of properties available to let and projects in income stream we expect to maintain a progressive hand but not let was 4.7 million per annum.
the year end, this figure has reduced to 3.3 million.
We currently have properties available to let with The first half of the year saw a combination of an estimated rental value of 1.7 million per annum exceptionally adverse external events.
The closure retail restaurant 0.7 million: offices 1.0 million of the Central Line, strikes in public services and and properties being refurbished with an estimated concerns about terrorist activity significantly rental value of 1.6 million per annum reduced the number of domestic and overseas retail restaurant 0.6 million: offices 1.0 million.
These factors contributed to delays of four to five months in letting many of Our three villages of Carnaby, Seven Dials Covent our new projects in Carnaby and Covent Garden, Garden and Chinatown are an integral part of the as we believe potential tenants postponed unrivalled cluster of cultural attractions, historic commitments until more settled conditions returned sites, theatres, shops, restaurants, clubs and bars and visitor numbers and trading levels began to which embody the West End.
Since conditions began to improve in the is to invest only in those parts of Londons West End early summer letting activity has increased, where we identify areas of enduring popularity for demonstrating the resilience of occupier demand for domestic and overseas visitors and where rental our exceptionally well-located shops and restaurants.
levels are significantly below nearby prime streets, thereby providing significant growth potential.
Page 03 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003 Chairmans statement continued Our portfolio of well-located investments has proved to be exceptionally resilient in spite of the unusually difficult conditions which affected the whole of Central London in the first half of the year We use our specialist skills, expertise and local Our portfolio includes 209 flats and maisionettes on knowledge to develop and promote originality, the upper floors of our mixed-use properties.
They creativity and flexibility within each village.
By fostering are generally let on annual assured shorthold tenancies and promoting the special characteristics of each and account for approximately 6% of current income.
village as well as creating exciting environments for Our flats are in very popular residential locations our tenants and their customers, we believe occupier and values have remained firm over the year.
demand will move rental levels closer to established Our revenue results clearly demonstrate improving prime rents whilst still remaining competitive.
net property revenue, a trend which we expect will Average rental values in our villages are still under continue as schemes currently in hand are 50% of those in neighbouring prime locations.
With an additional 30 million Our portfolio now includes 275 shops totalling ten year bank facility signed in November 2003, we 359,000 sq.
ft. which provide 39% of current now have committed facilities of approximately contracted income.
The average unexpired lease 70 million to fund the expansion of our portfolio.
1 term of our shops is 8 years.
Reflecting the difficult 2 Our portfolio of well-located investments has conditions and uncertainties in the first half of the proved to be exceptionally resilient in spite of the year, rental values have increased only marginally unusually difficult conditions which affected the over the year as a whole.
Although there was much whole of Central London in the first half of the year.
reduced letting activity in the first half, we have Demand for our retail and restaurant accommodation, maintained our very selective policy regarding tenant which account for 65% of our income, has largely mix which creates the distinctive nature of our villages.
We remain confident that, We own 127 restaurants, bars and clubs totalling regardless of any further short term set backs, we 336,000 sq.
Currently these provide 26% of will deliver accelerating growth in income and capital contracted income and the average unexpired lease values over the medium and longer term and will 1 term of these uses is 14 years.
Rental values have continue to identify and exploit new opportunities.
2 changed little during the year.
We have seen signs of a moderation in Westminster City Councils previously totally restrictive planning policy towards Peter L Levy restaurants.
However, both Westminster and the Chairman London Borough of Camden remain opposed to 2nd December 2003 granting consents for new bars and clubs with late night licences.
ft. of offices, which account for 29% of our contracted income.
Office rents achieved this year have fallen by up to 10%, following falls of around 20% last year, but have now stabilised.
Although occupier demand has been subdued throughout the year, we have had particular success in attracting fashion-related businesses to take offices in Carnaby.
We have continued our programme of converting offices to other uses when profitable opportunities arise.
The average unexpired lease 1 term of our offices is 7 years.
2 Page 04 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003 Page 05 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003 Page 06 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003
