04 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Chairmans statement 05 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Your Board is confident that the company is well placed to meet what are expected to be better market conditions in the next few years and believes that the long-term outlook for property remains good 2003 Results The 2.4 per cent fall in profits before tax to 140.1 million The results reflect a robust performance for the year excluding exceptional items reflected this slowdown across the Groups portfolio in what have been in development by the Group in the previous 18 months challenging market conditions.
At both the preliminary and was also mirrored by the fall of diluted net asset results last March and the interim results in August we value before FRS19 deferred tax to 505 pence per share indicated that 2003 would be a slow year in terms of reflecting the valuers, current view of the market.
demand and therefore we would continue to hold back Ian Coull discusses these issues in his review on pages 10 to on new development.
In these markets we can take a 13 but it is worth pointing to the Boards recommendation great deal of encouragement from the resilience of our to increase the dividend by 7.1 per cent which reflects its core property income as our strategic bias towards underlying confidence in the prospects for the business.
flexible business space has protected us from the worst of the downturn and in recent months there has been The Group has a 147 hectare development land bank an encouraging improvement in occupier enquiries.
and conservative gearing of 64 per cent which gives us a solid platform for continuing growth in the future.
Strategic review At the interim results in August we reported on the completion of a strategic review of the business, undertaken by the new Chief Executive Ian Coull, which has been approved by the Board.
This review concluded that our focus will be on flexible business space, which today accounts for over 80 per cent of our property portfolio, as these well-located blocks of property offer the greatest opportunity for superior returns over time.
Our intention will be to increase the Groups exposure to modern multi-use business parks, maximising returns for each location by providing the most appropriate mix of buildings appropriate for a wide range of customer demand.
In terms of geographical spread, we concluded that the opportunities in selected markets outside the UK remain as good or better and that the Group will continue to invest in these Western European and North American business centres on the basis of investing in the locations that offer the most attractive returns for new money.
The review also confirmed the value of the small portfolio of retail shopping centres in the UK which will continue to have a limited place in the portfolio.
It is also the intention of the Group to find over time the most advantageous exit from its non-property investments which make up just three per cent of the assets of the Group.
Chief Executives review Ian Coull reports more fully on the business of the Group in his review of Activities on pages 12 to 13.
In his first year, he has focused on reviewing all aspects of the business, 06 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Chairmans statement continued providing vision for the future and on streamlining the It is against this environment that my colleagues and management of our activities.
This has been achieved I must ensure that going forward over the next few years by refocusing responsibilities and by introducing a new we own and manage a quality portfolio of properties that rewards package which will motivate our people to respond to customer needs and continue to enhance deliver superior performance.
The property industry Market conditions The property industry is an essential contributor to the In the past year property markets have become bifurcated.
economic and social well-being of nations.
Not only do On the one hand investment demand for good, well-leased property companies own and manage buildings which properties has remained strong which has maintained accommodate business, government, leisure and residential yields and consequently values.
Conversely, occupancy needs but they also invest in new development and demand has been weak, reflecting low confidence across regeneration which is an important economic contributor.
a number of business sectors, geopolitical uncertainty and In recent years, property development and investment increasing regulatory and fiscal intrusion.
Consequently, activities have become increasingly subject to a greater rental rate performance has been mixed with positive burden of taxation increased stamp duty, aggregate growth from retail, stability for industrial and declines and landfill levies, and planning gain payments.
In addition, across the office sector.
there is much more regulation, all of which increases cost and adds delay to essential new investment.
On pages 8 to 9 we discuss in more detail our market forecasts for the future.
We believe that the cyclical decline In the UK, quoted property companies are facing an in occupancy demand has bottomed out and that markets interesting and challenging period of change: structural will strengthen into 2005. changes, personality changes and market changes.
Structurally for the past five years ownership of Businesses in the UK and abroad need flexible business commercial property has increasingly been moving space to enhance their own operational efficiency, to new off-shore investment vehicles which respond to productivity and working conditions for their employees.
a growing global appetite of North American, European New intensified land use and environmental laws will and other investors who are seeking to mitigate the tax over time make it more challenging to accommodate burden of ownership.
Here in the UK there is a prospect future business requirements in prime locations close that tax transparent Property Investment Funds PIFs to major markets.
may be introduced in due course.
Slough Estates is very well placed to fulfil our current and Property companies have succeeded due to the future customers space expectations.
We provide a wellentrepreneurial vision and leadership of strong, gifted designed, flexible product in a number of excellent locations.
In Britain over the next few years many of We believe in the principles of sustainability and some these leading personalities are likely to retire.
As a result, 70 per cent of our development programme is on previously there is a risk that the direction of property companies used land brownfield sites.
Our leasing arrangements will inevitably become more managerial in character are flexible and constructive to our customers interests.
a situation we will strive to avoid.
Tax transparent property investment funds PIFs Institutional conformity will govern strategic options, risk, The Government has now published its consultation paper market focus and governance.
Such conditions will create on the possibility of introducing these vehicles and is a more passive investment environment, more orthodoxy asking for contributions from the property sector and and the courage and individuality of earlier generations others as to their views on the topic.
The concept of a tax transparent property vehicle has For many decades property companies have succeeded merit, particularly if more investment interest is generated.
against challenge but impending changes may not all be But if the concept is restrictive, regulatory and less flexible for the future benefit of shareholders, nor will it encourage than the present property company, then the costs and innovative new development.
For the future it is important non-financial burden may discourage conversion.
that the nations infrastructure, including buildings, is of world-class, so that leading global businesses are attracted By definition the majority of these tax transparent to the UK.
The successful management of development vehicles in other countries are passive real estate risks is a powerful driver of shareholder value.
Successful owners and consequently the momentum of new development creation and project implementation requires development, regeneration and asset improvement enlightened entrepreneurs and strong financing which is can be prejudiced unless there is scope for reinvesting derived from a sound corporate asset base.
07 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 As a company we welcome the opportunity to discuss The board these ideas with Government.
We intend to evaluate the Ian Coull joined the Board as director and Chief Executive issues raised in the consultation paper and to actively on 1 January 2003. participate in the debate.
However, until the Government determines the actual detail of these PIFs and conditions Since the year-end two new independent non-executive for conversion, it is premature for us to decide whether the directors have been appointed: Andrew Palmer, Group possibility would benefit the company and its shareholders.
Finance Director of Legal & General and Chris Peacock, formerly Chief Executive of Jones LangLaSalle.
Their Corporate social responsibility appointment strengthens the Board and brings to it For the first time we have published a stand-alone fresh ideas and experience.
They will both be subject Corporate Social Responsibility Report which is distributed to election at the Annual General Meeting.
with the Report and Accounts.
At that meeting the following directors will retire Slough Estates has for the past 80 years been an involved by rotation and offer themselves for re-election corporate citizen.
This has been achieved by our active Lord Blackwell, Lord MacGregor and myself.
involvement in the communities in which we operate, principally Slough, by having a strong emphasis on the In March 2004 Lord Blackwell was appointed the environment and by maintaining high standards of Senior Independent Director.
Brief biographical notes for all Board members are We have a committee under my chairmanship that set out on pages 42 to 43. oversees our overall performance, including comprehensive risk assessment and management.
Management and staff The Group is facing change and 2003 has been again As a company we continue to provide financial and a very challenging year.
Slough Estates has a good and management support to the extent of one per cent of loyal team of professional, skilled and experienced people.
dividends to a wide range of educational, environmental, On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I thank them heritage and welfare organisations.
In 2003 our support all most sincerely for their significant contribution to the amounted to 540,000.
Many employees are personally Groups continuing success.
involved in local and national voluntary service which we encourage and support.
The year ahead The turn in the property cycle confirms our belief in the Corporate governance strength of property as an investment medium.
Slough The new Combined Code has been reviewed and is being Estates has avoided the worst of this downturn by its implemented with a view to achieving substantial focus on flexible business space.
Within the business space compliance by the end of the financial year ending 31 segment, Slough does not have any exposure to city centre December 2004. properties and although the demand for suburban business space is still slow, demand is stable and we have seen As a company Slough Estates has always maintained recently a rise in enquiries.
Slough Estates investment a strong corporate governance culture which we believe in retail property is healthy with strong investor demand does enhance corporate performance.
We welcome the for well-located and well-let shopping centres.
opportunity to comply or explain any departures from full compliance.
But we remain concerned that some of Your Board is confident that the company is well placed the provisions of the new code are too bureaucratic, too to meet what are expected to be better market conditions prescriptive and do little to advance the prosperity of the in the next few years and believes that the long-term business or further the protection of shareholders interests.
outlook for property remains good.
This view means that we are confident about the prospects for the company We have a good Board of Directors with a balance of and this is reflected in the proposed dividend increase executive and non-executive members.
We combine the of 7.1 per cent which is underpinned by a secure and independence of more newly-appointed members with the growing rental stream.
wisdom and pragmatism of the longer-serving directors.
Nigel Mobbs Our current corporate governance guidelines are set out Chairman on pages 40 to 41.
