The trading year just ended has proved a difficult one for the Group.
Chairmans Statement Three things in particular caused problems for us.
First, extricating ourselves from our loss-making North American operations took longer and cost more than we had hoped.
Second, the severe weakness in stock markets during the first half of 2003 increased the burden of our pension costs.
And our retail business in the UK, whilst continuing to earn high returns on invested capital, did rather less well than expected.
My prediction in last years report that profits should show a decent advance in 2002 03 was therefore not fullled: continuing profits before tax slipped from 117m to 102m.
A few weeks into our new trading year, however, we have agreed sales for both the airport and hotel businesses in the USA, and shall be consulting on steps to reduce the cost to the Group of supporting its pension fund.
I wrote last year about the increased rate of new product development in our UK Retail business.
In 2002 03 this has been matched by work on a new store format.
Our concept store in Guildford opened in the summer: its trading so far has given us a great deal of encouragement, and investment in the store portfolio will be stepped up in 2004.
The book trade has been passing through a tough period, caused to some extent by shortages of funds in the education system, and Hodder Headline a star performer in recent years has seen some slowdown.
The integration of John Murray, acquired last summer, has gone very well.
WHSmith News has continued to make good progress in service standards, cost control and profitability.
The Board is once again proposing to maintain the dividend at a total of 19 pence per share, although the pressure on profits leaves dividend cover undesirably low on both a cash and an earnings basis.
Finally, in July we announced that Kate Swann, the managing director of Argos, would be joining us as Chief Executive later in 2003.
Kate starts on 1 November 2003: we count ourselves fortunate to have attracted an outstandingly able executive.
Richard Handover, who has led the Group with passion and determination in his six years as Chief Executive, takes over from me as Chairman.
Michael Orr, a non-executive director since 1993 and Senior Independent Director since 1999, retires at the Annual General Meeting shrewd, diligent and sceptical, he has served WHSmith well.
In September we welcomed Andrew Rolfe to the Board.
It remains for me to express my personal gratitude to my colleagues throughout the Group for the help and support they have given to me and of course to you, the shareholders during the last few years.
Martin Taylor Chairman 16 October 2003 The combination of higher pension costs, reduced profits at UK Retail and continuing losses from the US saw pre-tax profits slip from 117m to 102m.
The Board is proposing a maintained dividend of 19 pence per share.
2 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
