Chairmans statement Trading In a year when the world economy faced a number of disruptions and Europe saw little or no economic growth, we believe we did well to achieve a similar level of sales and operating profits on continuing operations compared to last year and, at 38.5m, a 2% improvement at the pre-tax level.
With a small profit from discontinued operations and 4.3m of exceptional profits, principally from the sale of surplus properties, overall profit before tax was 43.0m compared to 7.6m the year before.
The pre-exceptional tax charge at 35.4% was at a similar rate to 2002 and earnings per share before exceptional items were 19.2 pence, an increase of 8% on last year basic earnings per share in 2003 were 22.5 pence compared with a loss of 0.4 pence the previous year.
This has enabled us to increase the ordinary dividend for the full year by 3% to 11.85 pence whilst continuing our objective of gradually increasing dividend cover, this year to 1.6 times based on profit before exceptional items.
At the start of 2003 we reorganised the UK manufacturing and European sales structures in our Oleochemicals business and I am glad to report that these areas have made good progress, in addition to another strong performance by our Active Ingredients businesses in France.
The US Oleochemicals business had a disappointing year but over half of the sales shortfall was due to converting at a lower dollar exchange rate compared to the previous year.
Although some business was lost in the USA as we withdrew some commodity products from our range, we have recently won new orders in the ongoing business so expect 2004 sales to return to previous levels in local currency terms.
Sales in the rest of the world also showed an improved performance on last year, with Singapore returning a useful profit after the financing costs of constructing the new site.
Our Other businesses performed satisfactorily given they incurred over 0.5m of restructuring charges in the year, the benefits of which will be received in 2004.
2 Antony Beevor Chairman Finance Safety, Health and the Environment At the end of the year net debt had fallen to 29.0m from 52.1m a During 2003 we achieved our target of obtaining ISO 14001 year earlier due to a strong operating cash flow of 58.9m, helped by environmental certification for all our established manufacturing disposals and currency movements.
Capital expenditure for the year was operations around the world.
This necessitated much hard work and I 12.4m, compared to depreciation of 14.6m.
congratulate all those involved on an important and highly worthwhile effort.
In addition we have achieved success in meeting the environmental Strategy for growth targets we set ourselves and the accident statistics at our manufacturing sites are showing an encouraging trend.
We believe that no business can The relative robustness of our results in recent years has been due to survive in the long term that does not fulfil its obligations to the the steps we have taken to exit those businesses where we did not communities in which we live, the people who work for us and the believe we had a competitive edge and to concentrate primarily on third parties with whom we do business.
supplying sophisticated naturally derived ingredients to manufacturers of personal and other care products.
We are thus operating in a growing People and low-cyclical market selling proprietary products which are increasingly patent protected.
In Europe we are seeing some early These are demanding times for human resources staff with much new, results of the improvement we have made to our marketing structure often EU based, legislation coming into force.
Much of the new flexible and we continue to concentrate on harnessing our world wide product working and other rules are built on principles that a wise employer development skills and resources in an efficient manner.
Whilst we will would seek to operate even in the absence of legislation: it is to be not ignore value creating acquisitions when the opportunity arises we hoped that the rigidities and bureaucracies that come with the new recognise the importance of organic growth to our shareholders.
We legislation do not price UK manufacturing industry still further out of are currently achieving it most dramatically in our Actives businesses and world markets than is already the case.
we are confident of achieving it across the spread of our business in the future.
We are becoming increasingly involved in healthcare markets.
We have been giving careful thought to our future pension policy, which We believe we have leading expertise in lipid technology for the has of course become a major issue for UK employers with relatively pharmaceutical sector but we take care not to become overdependent mature schemes, not just because of lower investment returns but also on any one project because of the long timescales and risks involved.
because of the increase in life expectancy.
We believe our pension schemes are important to our employees and to us in attracting and motivating them.
We therefore decided to retain the defined benefit schemes in the UK but, following consultations with staff, on a basis which shares the burden of the increased cost of funding between the Company and employees.
3 Chairmans statement I mentioned above the importance we attach to corporate social responsibility: a further example is the scheme being launched in 2004 for employees to spend up to three days a year with no loss of pay on approved community projects.
Every year I pay tribute to the loyalty of our staff and the culture that is particular to Croda.
I do so again, confident that we are in excellent shape to grasp the opportunities that will undoubtedly present themselves.
Outlook Trading has started well in 2004, with results ahead of this time last year and our order book, as ever short term in nature, is looking healthy.
The current weakness of the US Dollar against Sterling is, however, of some concern.
Exchange rates permitting, with continued growth in Europe and a rebound in the USA we expect to make progress in 2004.
