2 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Chairmans statement The Group has delivered good growth in the year to March 2003.
Our strategy of adding value, building brands and investing for lowest cost position continues to prove successful, despite the particularly difficult trading conditions in our commodity markets.
The Group reported adjusted profit before taxation of 76.8 million on turnover of 1.33 billion, with adjusted earnings per share increased to 46.4 pence.
In line with the Boards policy of progressive dividend increases, the directors recommend a final dividend of 11.3 pence per share, making a total dividend for the year of 16.4 pence, an increase of 8%.
In addition, we have taken major steps to improve the quality of earnings.
In November we completed the acquisition of St Ivel Spreads for 86.5 million and we have announced S M D Oliver, Chairman plans to close our butter and powder facility at Chard, which will reduce our exposure to the commodity ingredients market.
During the year we also completed the capital investment programme in our two super dairies at Severnside and Chadwell Heath.
This has created a sound platform for our liquid products business, as well as ensuring that we are well placed to benefit from any industry consolidation.
We continue to place great emphasis on close working relationships with dairy farmers and have developed initiatives to improve their returns.
Dairy Crest has taken a leading role, not only in terms of returning market leading milk prices to supplying producers, but also in reducing cost in the supply chain and working with the major retailers to implement a milk price supplement across our retail dairy product range last autumn.
Board changes The Board has been significantly restructured over the last year to reflect the developing needs of the business.
In July 2002, Drummond Hall was appointed Chief Executive and Mark Allen was appointed to the Board with responsibility for our cheese and household businesses.
In April 2003, Peter Thornton was appointed to the Board with responsibility for our spreads and liquid products businesses.
Both Mark and Peter have successful records of achievement at Dairy Crest.
In March 2003, Chris Roberts, who had been with Unigate and latterly Dairy Crest for over 25 years, stood down from the Board.
Howard Mann, President and Chief Executive of McCain Foods, joined the Board as a non-executive director, replacing Tom Jones, in May 2003.
Ian Laurie, who helped steer the Company through flotation and has been a key contributor in developing Dairy Crest over the last eight years, will step down as Group Finance Director and leave in August.
Ian will be replaced by Alastair Murray, who will join Dairy Crest from The Body Shop International plc in September.
I would like to thank Chris, Tom and Ian for their considerable contributions to Dairy Crest and to welcome Howard and Alastair to the Group.
One of Dairy Crests strengths is the quality and professionalism of our people at every level throughout the business.
I would like to take this opportunity to recognise their hard work and commitment, which, despite difficult trading conditions, have once again enabled the Group to deliver a successful year.
