I am pleased to report an increase in the The forthcoming AGM will see two directors 02 Groups adjusted profit before tax from retire from the Board.
Niilo Hakkarainen Chairmans 182.5 million to 185.5 million in the year joined the Board in 1990 after standing to September 2003.
This is a good result down as Chief Executive of United Paper Statement given the tough trading conditions that Mills in Finland.
He is a wonderful character many of our businesses faced, as well and has been an exemplary independent as the effects of the Iraq war and SARS.
His enthusiasm and his perception will be missed.
Particularly pleasing were the steady rise in the profits of Northcliffe, our regional Earlier this year, we celebrated the 50th newspaper division, and the higher anniversary of Sir Patrick Sergeant joining contributions from some of our newer our Group.
He was the revered City Editor of businesses.
Newspapers remain at the heart the Daily Mail from 1960 to 1984 and created of DMGT and our first priority is always to Money Mail.
In 1969, he founded Euromoney grow Associated and Northcliffe.
We know and has been instrumental in growing it into that we have to invest in order to increase our the international publishing business it is today.
revenues and have continued to put money He has been a non-executive director of into our products and titles, both new and DMGT since 1983 and has been a constant long-established.
Nowhere is this more true source of wisdom and experience throughout than in our flagship UK national titles, the that time.
Patrick was a great friend and Daily Mail and The Mail on Sunday.
Both have adviser to my grandfather and father and again increased their circulations in a generally has been a marvellous support to me since falling market and our regional titles have I became Chairman in 1998.
I shall miss won a stream of awards for their excellence.
immensely his wit and continuing wisdom at our Board meetings, but am delighted However, our strategy of investing also that he will remain as a director and president in non-newspaper media businesses has of Euromoney Institutional Investor.
provided diversity and some stability during the last three years of harsh advertising markets.
In their place the Board has recommended two individuals as directors from the end of The Groups star performer last year was Risk the AGM.
Tom Gillespie is a senior Canadian Management Solutions, ably led by Hemant lawyer who has worked with the Group over Shah.
Its growth has been exceptional, as its a long period.
David Verey is a merchant insurance company clients seek to improve banker by trade, formerly with Lazards and their portfolio risk analysis.
We look forward then Cazenove.
I believe their different skills to revenues continuing to grow rapidly.
We will prove to be of great value to the Board.
should also congratulate DMG Informations property information businesses, EDR in Finally I should like to mention Roger Gilbert, the United States and Landmark in the UK, who retires in April 2004.
Roger has been on a strong performance.
with the Group for 32 years, starting as Group Accountant, and then responsible for running DMG Radio has achieved outstanding and ultimately selling our non-media division.
An Latterly he has been responsible for growing excellent team, headed by Paul Thompson, some of our newer businesses as chairman has taken our Sydney station, Nova 969, of our Teletext, radio and exhibitions divisions to the number one FM rating less than three which in the last year delivered 14% of our years after launch.
We paid a high price operating profits.
His has been a most valuable for our metropolitan licences, but now we contribution to the Groups development have the base to generate a good return and I wish him a long and happy retirement.
The last three years have been a difficult I turn now to the changing regulatory picture period for many of our businesses and in the UK.
The Broadcasting Act is about to for our employees.
We have continued to come into force and Ofcom will shortly take build up our businesses and, almost without over much of the regulation of the UK media exception, they have stronger market industry.
In the past year we have seen the positions now than three years ago.
This is two main ITV companies allowed to merge, substantially due to the skills and dedication yet the Competition Commission has turned of our employees who have once more shown down a number of small deals in the radio themselves to be the Groups greatest asset.
and regional newspaper sectors on local I thank them all on behalf of shareholders competition grounds.
We now hope for for their efforts and commitment but most increased consistency from the various of all for their results.
Now that we are at last regulatory bodies to allow UK media seeing some encouraging signs of renewed companies to plan with more certainty.
growth in some parts of the Group, I hope they all enjoy an easier year ahead.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc This has been a successful year given the tough trading conditions that many of our businesses faced.
Newspapers remain at Our strategy of investing the heart of DMGT and the also in non-newspaper media successes of Associated businesses has provided and Northcliffe are some stability over the particularly pleasing.
last three years of harsh advertising markets.
