Chairmans Statement Group Results Our results for the year to 29 March 2003 are a considerable disappointment, particularly in the light of our expectations at the beginning of the year.
As 2002 2003 progressed, the extent to which a number of fide La Rues key markets had been affected by worsening economic conditions became progressively more apparent.
In addition, market uncertainty introduced by the increased threat to global security during the latter part of the year further reduced already fragile confidence.
In the current difficult trading conditions the Board believes that the short-term emphasis in Cash Systems and Global Services should be on the restoration of profitability.
This is being targeted through the implementation of the cost reduction programmes and more aggressive integration of recent Sir Brandon Gough acquisitions.
This, together with the completion of a strategic review of Global Services and Security Chairman Products operations, will be the focus for the current year.
Dividend Subject to shareholders approval, the Board is recommending the maintenance of the final dividend at 9.2p per share, bringing the full year dividend to 13.6p per share, up 1.5 per cent on last year.
The final dividend will be paid on 8 August 2003 to shareholders on the register on 11 July 2003.
As previously outlined, the timing of payment of the interim dividend was brought forward from April to January in 2002 2003 to spread payments more equally over the year.
As a result the Company made three dividend payments in the year ended 29 March 2003.
Share Buy Back As previously outlined, the Board has decided to use, where appropriate, the existing authorities granted to it to acquire shares for cancellation.
During the year, the Company acquired and cancelled 13.9 million shares 7.1 per cent under this programme and returned 38m to shareholders.
The Board intends to seek shareholders approval at the AGM on 17 July 2003 to renew its existing authority to repurchase shares to the upper limit of 14.99 per cent.
The Board will continue to monitor the amount and timing of purchases in relation to market conditions and the Groups overall financial situation.
Board Changes In September 2002, we were pleased to announce the appointment of Stephen King as Finance Director.
He was appointed as an executive Director of the Board with effect from 31 January 2003, joining fide La Rue from Aquila Networks plc, formerly Midlands Electricity plc, where he was Group Finance Director since 1997.
Prior to that he was Group Financial Controller of SEEBOARD plc and Group Chief Accountant at Lucas Industries plc.
Stephen, 42, has a broad range of financial and commercial expertise and we look forward to his contribution to the Board.
Outlook Our expectations for 2003 2004 are unchanged and we expect underlying market conditions to remain at current levels throughout the year.
In addition, 2003 2004 will be adversely affected by the anticipated increase in pension charges and unfavourable foreign exchange movements relating to manufacturing costs in Sweden.
Despite this, underlying performance is expected to show some improvement in 2003 2004 as the benefits of the cost reduction programmes are delivered.
We continue to cut costs in our Cash Systems and Global Services division to underpin trading in the current market conditions.
Currencys performance is expected to be broadly stable despite the adverse impact of the pension charge.
The banknote paper business is expected to return to production levels closer to capacity, offset partly by reduced banknote volumes as anticipated overspill orders return to long-term average levels.
Sir Brandon Gough Chairman 12 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003
