chairmans statement A stable balance sheet, a drive to enhance efficiencies and a successful focus on working capital management were highlights of the period under review.
Introduction This external focus on our customers, businesses.
Customers increasingly prefer The year under review has been combined with the standardisation of our dealing with IT partners who offer global characterised by continuing challenging delivery capabilities globally, has solutions and services that help maximise global trading conditions.
Dimension Data reinforced the Dimension Data brand as return on their investments.
This trend has has responded by improving our strategic a global provider of managed and contributed to the consolidation we have and operational focus, enhancing the professional services.
The growing seen in the IT industry in the past year.
In management team and delivery recognition of Dimension Datas brand this environment, our global footprint is capabilities, and further cutting costs and the Groups capabilities are reflected vital to our customer engagement strategy.
whilst maintaining investment in the in the quality of our business wins over It allows us to service our global evolution of our business model.
These include new contracts customers locally and to understand and with several well-known global customers, capitalise on their IT strategies.
In At the start of fiscal year 2003, Dimension such as Allianz, Airbus and a leading addition, we are increasingly working with Data embarked on a programme of global courier company.
Enhanced key alliance partners such as Cisco and standardising the way we operate across offerings and strong customer EMC to understand the IT requirements of the globe.
The DD Way, our internal relationships have also enabled us to their global customer base.
change programme, forced us to examine penetrate our existing customer base and better understand what drives our further, as evidenced by clients such as Period under review organisation internally.
It was also the HSBC and a global pharmaceutical Convergence of IT environments catalyst for a focus on transitioning the company, where we significantly extended continues to fuel our Application Network Group into a more customer-centric, the scope of existing contracts.
Further progress has been made in outward-looking organisation.
This has improving the competitive position of the resulted in a marked improvement in the Globalisation has seen many of our business by refining our solution sets and way in which Dimension Data engages customers evolve from decentralised tightening our focus on five focused lines with customers, suppliers and staff.
regional operations into centralised global of business Network Integration, ANNUAL REPORT 2003 9 chairmans statement Application Integration, Platform Solutions, Given the highly competitive trading and small share of the US market, we remain Customer Interactive Solutions and price environment, the process of committed to our presence there and see Security Solutions.
We forged closer aggressively addressing our cost base it as vital to be able to service relationships with key vendors and continued in the period under review.
Over multinational and global customers, many continued to invest in solution sales and the year we cut costs in constant currency of whom have head offices in the US.
terms across all regions although due to the fact that we report in US dollars, this A highlight of the year was the The challenging economic environment is not apparent in our financial results.
The improvement in the Groups balance sheet during the year forced us to take a critical SA rand, Australian dollar, Euro and and cash position.
Strong cash generation look at both our skills sets and Sterling foreign exchange rates in the second half of the year reversed management capabilities.
The significant strengthened against the average US the cash consumed in the first half and for personnel changes that we have made dollar rate by 42%, 21%, 20% and 8% the year as a whole, the Group generated over the past 18 months, which have seen respectively over the year.
The benefits of operating cash of US$51 million.
Our cash key new appointments made in a number the cost-cutting measures taken have position of US$358 million at year end is a of regions, have resulted in a broader and yielded very pleasing results in the UK competitive advantage for the Group.
stronger management team, an improved and Australia where profitability ratios skills base and a better ability to sell and improved significantly year on year.
Corporate governance deliver services and solutions.
We are pleased to be able to report that The South African business reported a we have dealt with the majority of the We have also focused on improving disappointing performance in the second Corporate Governance recommendations efficiencies in our core Network half of the year.
Profitability was raised by the King II Code on Corporate Integration business in recognition of the negatively impacted by lower volumes in Governance in South Africa and the fact that products will always form a key the Application Integration and Service Revised Combined Code in the UK.
We part of our solutions offering.
This being Provider businesses as well as by the remain committed to addressing any said, we remain committed to our target to strength of the SA rand which had the outstanding issues and will keep our grow our services offering to more than effect of reducing margins in dollar-based stakeholders informed of progress.
50% of turnover in the medium term.
Management has addressed Dimension Data South Africa is committed key internal issues and is focused on to Black Economic Empowerment as an After a number of years of pressure on improving profitability in 2004. economic and business imperative.
It is a product margins, some pricing stability vital initiative that will benefit both the started to emerge in the second half of The turnaround plans in both our Asian South African economy and the Group the year.
However, services margins, whilst and US businesses yielded satisfactory locally and substantial progress continues still significantly more attractive than results in the second half.
With evidence to be made in achieving the targets set product margins, have come under of a stronger business outlook in both of out by the Groups internal Black pressure, largely due to lower demand these regions, we are confident that Economic Empowerment programme.
We and an oversupply of skills.
profitability will continue to improve in the believe that by transforming our South new financial year.
Although we have a African business and meeting the Black 10 DIMENSION DATA Empowerment Equity ownership criteria, Thank you we will enhance business opportunities We notified shareholders in a separate and our competitive positioning going announcement that Bob Mansfield forward.
resigned from the Board with effect from 17 November 2003, due to work Outlook commitments.
I would like to take this Following the realignments and opportunity to thank Bob for his significant rationalisations of the past two years, contribution as a Director of Dimension Dimension Data is now well positioned to Data and Datacraft Asia over the last compete within the current economic three years.
Our key differentiator remains our ability to provide costI would also like to welcome Dillie effective Application Network solutions to Malherbe, a director of VenFin Ltd, who our customers across a global footprint.
are the holders of the convertible bonds, We have made good progress in building who has agreed to join our Board as a the Dimension Data brand and in building non-executive director with immediate quality, long term customer relationships.
This is evidenced by the quality of new business, particularly in the second half of Finally, I would like to thank all of our the year.
Going forward we will maintain customers, partners and friends for their our tight focus on financial management, continued support.
Everybody working at with a specific emphasis on working Dimension Data has been through a tough capital management.
period and we all look forward to better trading conditions.
The Group has Whilst customers remain cautious about emerged in a far healthier state as a result committing to new IT spend and focused of the direct input and performance of all on extracting returns from current IT involved.
investments, there was evidence in all regions that the demand cycle and technology-pricing pressures have stabilised.
Whilst we are not factoring any strong improvement in demand into our 2004 budgets, Dimension Data is now better placed to win market share due to a tighter strategic focus, improved sales and delivery capabilities and strong vendor Jeremy Ord relationships.
