Chairmans statement Chairman, Sir John Collins with KB Bhogal, launch store manager for Dixons xL in Cardiff.
Our strategy is to continue the profitable growth of our UK business and to expand into selected countries in Continental Europe.
We now operate in 12 countries and are Europes leading electrical retailer.
Just under a year ago I became Chairman of the These standards provided an important guide Dixons Group.
I was honoured to be offered this as we faced one of the Groups more demanding role which I inherited from the Groups founder, Sir years.
They are the standards against which we will Stanley Kalms, to whose leadership the Groups size, measure our actions to drive up performance across strength and continued success are a lasting tribute.
every element of the business.
Our strategy remains to continue the profitable In Europe we continued to expand our established growth of our UK business and to expand into businesses in the Nordic countries, integrated selected countries in Continental Europe.
We now UniEuro in Italy into our organisation and continued operate in 12 countries and are Europes leading to develop our new businesses PC City in France, electrical retailer.
I fully endorse this strategy and Spain and Italy and Electro World in Hungary and compliment John Clare our Chief Executive both the Czech Republic.
on its design and execution to date.
In the UK we faced intense competition coupled In a rapidly growing and divergent business, it with the early indications of a slowing in consumer is important to reinforce our focus on common confidence.
Operationally our response over Christmas objectives and to link the many parts of our business was not as effective as it should have been and around a shared sense of identity, purpose and culture.
we have put substantial and effective efforts into That is why, in October, John Clare and I initiated recovering margin and operational performance in Being the Best, a Group-wide business focus the second half of the year.
Creating such a common understanding, while vital, is a considerable challenge.
But as we Our markets are some of the most ercely entered new markets we felt it was important to competitive anywhere in the world.
This will not focus on how we want to do business.
There will be no reduction in the pressure to innovate and to stay vigilant to competitors To us, being the best means: activities.
The Group remains at the cutting edge operating with integrity of electrical retailing in the UK and throughout our giving outstanding service European markets.
We have no intention of yielding respecting our colleagues that position and will be ever more vigorous in continually seeking to improve performance.
And, of course, working together to beat the competition.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 7 Chairmans statement continued During the year we appointed David Longbottom employees of the Group across all our businesses for to the Board.
During his 16 years with the Group, their support in what has been a challenging year.
David proved himself highly effective in a number of operational roles before becoming Group HR As corporate governance has come increasingly director seven years ago.
As our business grows, under the spotlight, I am pleased to confirm it will be shaped by our people, and human that the Groups remuneration policies continue resource management is at the centre of our to reect best practice.
We aim to incentivise future development.
Accordingly it is good to and reward success fairly at every level whilst welcome David to the Board.
Since the year end we have appointed Andrew Lynch The Competition Commissions Inquiry into and John Whybrow as non-executive directors.
extended warranties on domestic electrical goods Andrew is Finance Director of Compass Group PLC has been the focus of considerable media and and will take over as Chairman of the Audit management attention over the year.
John Whybrow is Chairman of Wolseley has sought to provide the Commission with the plc and will become Chairman of our Remuneration fullest information possible in the course of the Committee.
Both have impressive business and inquiry.
Our experience, over many years, shows commercial track records and I am sure we will that after-sales service is an integral element of benefit from their extensive experience.
They will electrical retailing and one that is valued by our replace Norman Blackwell and Karen Cook, both customers.
I look forward to a sensible outcome.
of whom will leave the Board at the beginning of September when their terms of ofce expire.
Going forward our balance sheet is strong with low gearing and our dividend well covered.
We are Following the restructuring of our commercial well placed to profit from any upturn in consumer operations, we have abolished the role of joint spending but at the same time able to face any chief operating officer.
As a result, David Hamid left challenges.
the Board and the Group in May of this year after 17 years exemplary service.
David Gilbert will step The Board has recommended the payment of a final down from the Board at the beginning of September dividend of 5.145 pence, making total dividends for and I am pleased that we will retain the benefit the period 6.655 pence 6.050 pence, an increase of his extensive knowledge and experience as a of 10 per cent.
member of our senior management team.
Also in September, Mark Souhami, who has been with the Group for 33 years, the last 11 of them as Deputy Chairman will retire from the Board but Sir John Collins will remain as Chairman of Codic until next April.
Chairman Marks contribution to the Group is inestimable.
25 June 2003 Throughout his time with us, he has been an unstinting ambassador both for the Company and the retail industry.
We shall miss his wise counsel and solid advice.
When I took over the Chairmanship it was my intention that we should restructure the Board so as to achieve a more even balance between executive and non-executive representation, a structure which has been endorsed by the Higgs Report.
The changes which I have outlined will achieve this objective.
A further non-executive director will be appointed in due course.
I take this opportunity to thank not only those directors who are retiring from the Board but 8 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03
