FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNU AL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 year with turnover of 204.6 million and operating profits before goodwill amortisation of 18.1 million CHAIRMANS compared to 173.6 million and 17.2 million respectively in 2002.
STATEMENT Foodservice Operations In foodservice, we drove forward with our plans to have 2003 saw the Group make substantial progress.
We all key products approved and available in all the major delivered a sound set of results for 2003, with good markets in which we operate.
We invested heavily in growth in many areas compensating for the weak demand we encountered in others.
We developed new product ranges and the routes to market to enable us to grow strongly.
We move into 2004 confident that, after a period of consolidation, we are ready to produce the growth that the reinvestment process, started in 2001, was designed to achieve.
Consumer Operations In 2003 our consumer operations progressed well.
Our strong retail strategy of providing targeted, accessible retail outlets and strengthened distribution routes, supporting the broad product ranges we now have, in both appliances and home fashions, enabled us to deliver a strong overall performance.
Achieving our 2003 target, set at the start of 2001, The Aga Foodservice Group exhibition stand at the 2004 Kitchens, Bedrooms and Bathrooms show.
of annual sales of 10,000 Aga branded cookers up from under 8,000 in 2001 was a landmark for the research and development to make ourselves best able Group.
Over the last three years we have demonstrated to respond to the growing needs of major customers that we can develop the products and the brands to to have energy efficient, environmentally friendly and be a major force in premium appliances.
Now, we can easy to operate products.
We can now bring, with Aga set more ambitious targets not only in the UK but also Foodservice Know-How, a quite exceptional and in Continental Europe and North America.
This applies innovative range of products to customers, be they in to not only Aga-Rayburn, but to Rangemaster and to the UK, Europe or in North America.
Northland-Marvel, the US refrigeration business we acquired last September.
To assist in achieving these In the UK, trading was difficult with weak demand from targets, a major objective for 2004 is to add new pubs and supermarkets while sector reorganisations displays for all our consumer appliances.
In Europe, Bongard, our bakery business has strengthened and focused its product An important component in selling a greater number range: improved manufacturing costs while responding of Agas has been the links with our home furnishings to lacklustre economic conditions.
Fired Earth in the UK, Domain in the US and Grange, in both Europe and the US, have helped In North America we had a pleasing year.
In bakery we create a broader distribution capability.
Our Great are strong in doughnut equipment and with caf Rooms concept, which encompasses the kitchen bakeries.
In refrigeration we have steadily improved and living room in one area, has been embraced by a performance and new products help strengthen further widening customer base.
Taken overall, our consumer operations had a good Foodservice operations saw operating profits before 2 goodwill amortisation increase from 13.0 million to with the last four as Chairman.
He has led the Group 14.3 million on turnover up from 149.7 million to through a major transitional period and the current 185.7 million.
board will see the benefits of the planning in which he played a central role.
We have welcomed Peter Tom Strategic Progress and Paul Dermody to the board, both of whom have Since March 2001, Aga Foodservice Group has immense international business experience.
Tony embarked on a clear and consistent strategy both in Wilson steps down at the AGM after eight years on its consumer and foodservice operations.
Through a the board and thirty years with the Group.
The parts series of acquisitions over the last three years we have played by both Kit and Tony in the Group have been tremendously important.
Prospects 2004 will be an exciting year for the Group as the work of the last three years, on new products and on the routes to market, drives top line growth.
We are building on our strength in the UK in consumer and foodservice markets to become a strong force in North America and on the Continent.
The new generation of Aga cookers and the revolutionary Infinity Fryer epitomise our plans.
The current year has started satisfactorily, particularly for The Aga Foodservice Equipment exhibition stand at Hotelympia 2004. the consumer activities in the UK.
We are starting to see helped build a wider product range and distribution more opportunities for those network across the US, Europe and the UK.
Against businesses that had a the backdrop of mixed market conditions we now challenging 2003, like have a stronger business model and platform for Domain in the US and growth.
Our focus is primarily on obtaining the our European foodservice substantial benefits that the investments made can operations, which should bring.
lead to an improved perforWe will continue to invest to develop our existing mance later this year.
We can operations, notably in new products and in distribution therefore expect to see further structures.
We also see scope for using our strong growth achieved in 2004 and balance sheet to provide value directly to shareholders, have confidence that the benefits through higher dividends and where attractive through of our strategic planning of recent a share buy-back programme.
This is reflected in the years will be demonstrable.
dividend for 2003 being increased by 20% from 6.0 to 7.2 pence per share: the second year of such an increase.
People I was delighted to take over as Chairman from Kit Farrow Vic Cocker CBE, Chairman who has served the Group as a director for ten years 19th March 2004 3
