Chairmans Statement Antony Hichens 2002 03 was a challenging year in which The Group continues to pursue its strategy Over the last year, the Group has demonstrated demand weakened in most of our markets.
of operational improvement and development its resilience and its ability to operate We also had to contend with substantial of its two principal activities, Packaging and successfully in tough markets.
In the current fluctuations in the price of recovered paper, Office Products Wholesaling.
In 2002 03, we year, margins in our Paper business are under the principal raw material for our largest built further on our strong market positions increased pressure but we are confident that business segment, Corrugated and Paper and raised the Groups return on capital the other parts of the Group will make Packaging.
Despite these difficulties, employed from 9.2% to 11.3%.
I am pleased to report that we met our continue to invest in capital projects and key objectives of maintaining progress bolt-on acquisitions which strengthen our in Packaging and rebuilding profitability competitiveness in selected sectors, while in Office Products.
This was achieved remaining focused on raising returns.
through continuing to raise operational performance and realising the benefits In November 2002, Gavin Morris was of the acquisitions made in recent years.
appointed Group Finance Director, bringing extensive financial and international Antony Hichens The Groups earnings per share before management experience to the Group.
Chairman exceptional items and amortisation of David Buttfield, who had been Group Finance intangibles advanced by 29% to 18.0p.
Director since 1994, took early retirement The net cash inflow after dividends and and stood down from the Board in January acquisitions was 15.6 million compared 2003.
The Board thanks David for his with an outflow of 1.6 million in the valuable contribution and for maintaining previous year.
the Groups sound financial position through an ever-changing trading environment.
Your Board attaches considerable importance to the Groups capacity to pay its shareholders I would also like to thank all the Groups a reliable and significant dividend consistent employees worldwide for their contribution with its objective of sustaining around two to the years good result.
The progress times dividend cover over the course of the we have achieved in such tough market business cycle.
The Board is recommending conditions would not have been possible a final dividend of 6.0p per ordinary share without their enthusiasm and commitment.
which, together with the interim dividend of 2.8p, maintains the total dividend for the year at 8.8p per ordinary share.
We met our key objectives of maintaining progress in Packaging and rebuilding profitability in Office Products 4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
