Philip Rogerson Chairman Chairmans Statement Overview Despite the challenging trading conditions, In almost every respect, 2003 has been a tough we continued to focus on the management of year for Aggreko: on 30 December 2002, the the companys resources.
During the year our Group Chief Executive, Philip Harrower, was net borrowings decreased by 17.3 million to killed in a road accident and this inevitably 99.9 million: in the second half, cash generation placed a heavy burden on the management was particularly strong, with net borrowings team.
Added to this have been generally difficult falling by 31.9 million from 131.8 million at trading conditions in many of the markets in 30 June 2003.
The reduction in borrowings in which we operate around the world.
However, 2003 has been achieved despite a level of capital much has been achieved, particularly in the expenditure which is 3.2 million higher than second half.
Our new Chief Executive, Rupert depreciation in the year, and 2.5 million higher Soames, who was appointed in July 2003, led than 2002, as we continue to invest in our rental a Strategy Review which has delivered a clear fleet and our new IT systems.
Over the last two vision of where the opportunities lie and what years capital expenditure of 9.1 million has managements priorities should be, thereby giving been incurred on the new Enterprise Resource the Company a strong sense of direction and Planning ERP system, which will enable us purpose.
to manage the Companys trading activities using a single global application.
We believe that this In terms of trading performance, revenue for system will in time deliver significant competitive the Group was 2.4% lower at 331.8 million advantage to our business.
The system is now and operating profit at 44.7 million was 26.9% operational in Benelux, and rollout to other parts lower than 2002.
Group pre tax profits fell by of the Company begins in 2004 and will continue 27.2% to 40.1 million whilst diluted earnings through 2005. per share of 10.14 pence were 22.1% lower.
These numbers include a 5.9 million reduction Aggrekos financial position remains strong, in revenue and a 1.1 million reduction in as measured by net assets of 185.9 million, operating profit as a result of currency translation.
up 7.1% on 2002, and interest cover of 9.7 times.
In addition, the weakness of the US dollar has With this in mind, together with our confidence caused significant negative impact on reserves in the medium term outlook for Aggreko, the and profits in our international power projects Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.45 business.
An analysis of the trading performance pence per ordinary share which, when added to in local currency is included in the Operating the interim dividend of 2.20 pence, gives a total and Financial Review.
for the year of 5.65 pence per ordinary share, 4 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 representing a 1.8% increase on 2002.
Subject to We have included this year a section that approval by shareholders, the final dividend will analyses and explains the markets we operate be paid on 21 May 2004 to ordinary shareholders in and how we conduct our business, as well as on the register as at 23 April 2004, with an describing the outcome of our recently completed ex-dividend date of 21 April 2004.
Strategy Review and the implications for the business.
Long-term Incentive Plan We will be seeking approval at the Annual Outlook General Meeting for a new long-term incentive 2004 will be a year of transition for Aggreko as plan for senior management: the resolutions we implement the results of our Strategy Review.
related to this are included in this report on Nearly everyone in our operations in Europe and pages 64-65.
This plan, which is described in the North America will be involved in significant Remuneration Report, is being introduced at the changes in both organisation and business same time as management prepare to implement processes.
As set out in our Trading Update our new strategy.
The plan will largely replace published in December 2003, we expect that our existing share option scheme which has a the exceptional costs related to these changes number of features no longer regarded as best will not exceed 15 million, and will be charged practice.
The new plan has been designed in to the Profit and Loss Account in 2004.
At the consultation with our largest shareholders and same time as our restructuring, we are rolling will ensure that management is incentivised out our new company-wide IT system: the to produce superior returns for shareholders.
implementation of these two tasks in parallel Benefits under the plan will be linked to growth is likely to result in some short-term disruption in Earnings per Share and improvements in to the business, but we have taken the view that Return on Capital Employed.
it is better to execute both initiatives quickly so that we can deliver the expected benefits Employees as early as possible.
I would like to place on record my appreciation of the dedication and hard work of the entire From a trading perspective, there is evidence Aggreko team during what has been a difficult of some improvement in the market in North year for the company.
Many of our employees America: profitability in Europe remains weak.
have been working on the Strategy Review and Recent contract wins have secured a large part the information systems implementation, whilst of our planned 2004 revenue in our international at the same time they and many others have power projects business, giving us a larger order had to ensure that the high standards of service book than at the same time in 2003.
Aggreko delivers to its customers have been maintained.
At this early stage of the year, and subject to exchange rate variations, we expect the Shareholder Information underlying trading performance of the business This year we have redesigned the style and in 2004 to be at a level broadly similar to that content of our Annual Report and Accounts in 2003, although this is likely to take the form in order to make it both more useful and of a weak first half, as we implement many of informative, and less costly to produce.
For those our changes, followed by a stronger second half who might be interested in seeing them, we have as we begin to see some of the efficiency gains placed many of the photographs which we have coming through.
included in past reports on our website, along with a range of charts and data which can be downloaded for easy analysis.
These may be accessed at www.
Philip G Rogerson Chairman 1 March 2004 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 5
