10 Electrocomponents plc Chairmans statement Results mature market and have led to an increase in our sales and marketing Difficult trading conditions persisted throughout the year in all our efforts in these areas.
Our continued ability to improve gross margins major markets, with the electronics, telecommunications and general up to 52.7% versus 51.0% last year underlines the value that manufacturing sectors continuing to be weak.
customers place on our services.
Against this backcloth, Group sales declined by 2.6% adjusted for Cash flow was again strong.
Working capital was tightly controlled trading days and exchange rates to 743.7m from 759.6m and and showed a further reduction on last year.
Capital expenditure profit before tax and amortisation of goodwill declined by 4.4% to declined from its peak of 47.2m last year to 31.3m and will continue 100.9m from 105.5m.
The return on sales declined slightly to to fall as major spends on warehouses and systems are completed.
a result, and benefiting from significant exchange rate movements, net Profit is stated after 3.9m of one-off costs: 1.5m relating to the debt reduced 6.1m during the year to 46.9m.
costs of relocating to our new warehouse in Germany and 2.4m relating to the withdrawal from specialised activities in the United Dividend Kingdom directed at the telecommunications and related sectors: The Board recommends that the final dividend be increased by 6.8% to this withdrawal also lowered sales by 3.8m.
Additionally, the major 11.75p to give a full year dividend increase of 6.9% to 17.0p.
Though the systems investment project in Europe and Asia incurred costs 2.7m reported earnings for the year of 16.5p do not fully cover the higher than last year.
Sales and marketing costs critical to the Groups recommended dividend, the Board recognises that the earnings have growth also increased.
continued to be depressed both by trading conditions and by our We take some encouragement from our performance in the second investment programmes.
The dividend growth is underpinned by the half of the year which showed improvement on the first half without ability of our businesses to generate cash.
The Boards dividend any significant change in the trading backdrop.
Whilst the full year decisions continue to be based on these considerations together with sales and profits declined from the prior year, I believe the Groups its assessment of the Groups medium term growth opportunities.
overall performance was robust in the circumstances.
In spite of the tough conditions, management has continued to Board make investments designed to achieve the strategic potential of the The Board has met 11 times through the year including a two-day Group.
Our firmly held belief is that there are significant growth strategy review and an operational review of the years forecast.
opportunities for our business model around the world.
This belief was In addition the Italian business was visited as such visits enable powerfully reinforced through the year by the sales performance of our the Board to gain further insights into the Groups operations.
businesses in Japan and China, the resilience in continental The Board has always been, and will continue to be, an Europe and the United States and our international success with enthusiastic supporter of managing listed companies to the highest e-Commerce.
Also, important pilots have been carried out in the United standards.
To achieve the desired standards of governance not only Kingdom in service sectors where RS has traditionally been less requires the appropriate mix of the highest calibre independent and strong.
These demonstrate that the United Kingdom is far from being a executive directors, but also considerable flexibility.
We remain Bob Lawson Chairman We remain firmly of the view that the Group is able to generate superior and sustainable earnings growth El Ele ec ct tr roc oco om mp po on ne en nt ts p s pl lc c 11 11 concerned that the full implementation of the Higgs proposals may be Sales in our continental European businesses have been particularly too prescriptive to be really effective.
affected by public holidays compared to last year, but the underlying sales growth remains similar to that of the second half.
Allied in the Management United States has continued to grow, maintaining the second half The leadership team has remained stable through the year, and trend.
Japan has enjoyed even higher sales growth, reflecting further the regional structure introduced last year has now become fully success in e-Commerce.
Elsewhere, sales in our Asian businesses operational.
This structure is important to ensure that, as the have held up well despite the SARS restrictions.
Overall, monthly sales operating companies within each region grow, the core elements of the Group adjusted for exchange rates and trading days are of our business model are maintained and strengthened through broadly level with the same period last year.
consistency of the offer to customers, sharing best practices and Gross margin has shown a further small advance.
We have keeping tight controls.
Supporting the Executive Director Committee also continued to manage costs tightly, whilst sustaining our are the General Managers of each Region and of each Process who strategic investments.
The first half of this year will see the first together form the Group Executive Management Team.
This team implementation of our major European systems project and some executes our strategy.
We remain firmly of the view that the Group is able to generate Staff superior and sustainable earnings growth.
Our confidence is based For several years now, our people have experienced tough and on our strong market position, the opportunities open to us in all our demanding trading with many of our customers exhibiting weak markets and the great choice, service and value that we offer.
demand in our more traditional areas of strength.
Our teams have been resourceful in exploiting opportunities and creating new ways to serve customers whilst continuing to drive efficiencies within our organisation.
I have been impressed by their commitment and resilience and express the Boards thanks to each employee.
Each has contributed to Electrocomponents maintaining service Bob Lawson, Chairman leadership in our markets.
Current Trading Since the year end, our markets have continued to display weakness.
Recent leading indicators such as Purchasing Managers Indices suggest no improvement in the trading environment in the short term.
In the UK, our actions have continued to reduce the rate of year-onyear sales decline.
Sales per day are approaching those of a year ago.
e-Commerce sales across the Group were up 55% on last year
