Chairmans Statement Eric Nicoli Chairman, EMI Group The year ended 31 March 2003 was one of remarkable Net profit after tax and minority interests improved by progress and achievement for EMI Group, all the more 429.2m to 229.7m compared with the previous years so in a context of the global recorded music market loss of 199.5m.
The resulting improvement in adjusted declining by almost 9%.
This market movement was diluted earnings per share was 32.2%, to 15.6p per share.
markedly worse than we, and others in the industry, anticipated at the start of the year and demanded The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.0p per a swift and robust response from all parts of EMIs share, giving a full-year dividend of 8.0p per share, thus business.
maintaining the previous years level and improving dividend cover to close to two times.
We delivered the promised substantial improvement in profitability driven by the turnaround of EMI Recorded Recorded Music Music, another solid performance from EMI Music In EMI Recorded Music, Alain Levy and David Munns Publishing and tighter financial management across have driven the implementation of their far-reaching the group.
Furthermore, we have invested time and restructuring and reorientation plan with the objective resources in strengthening our culture and management of changing completely the way we work.
capabilities to equip our businesses to compete more effectively in tough market conditions and a rapidly The strength and professionalism of the management changing environment.
These are the results of a team at all levels is, I believe, world class.
The focus is company now being managed in a very different way now on sustainable, profitable sales, and on finding, from the past.
developing and effectively marketing artists who will have long-term, successful careers.
EMI Group For the group as a whole, operating profit EBITA Sales in Recorded Music fell 12.6% to 1,774.2m as in the year improved by 33.1% to 254.0m on sales the result of a combination of factors including macro- 11.1% lower at 2,175.4m.
Exchange rate movements economic effects in some regions, a growing impact had a significant adverse impact: at constant currency, of music piracy in all its forms and the disruptive impact operating profit was up 34.8% while sales declined of our restructuring activities, some of which took longer by 8.4%, broadly in line with the market.
Profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional items Our focus on generating profitable sales rather than improved by 15.7% to 177.3m.
When adjusted for market share at any cost together with full delivery of currency and the year on year impact of the sale of the projected cost savings and efficiency improvements our stake in HMV Group, the underlying improvement from restructuring, resulted in an increase in operating was 40.3%.
Our performance in North America was particularly pleasing as we saw Under Roger Faxons stewardship, EMI Groups margin improve by over 12 percentage points.
The UK balance sheet was completely restructured with the business had another year of excellent progress and effect of more than doubling the average maturity of in South East Asia we moved into profit for the first our debt.
We converted our passive interest in HMV, time in a number of years.
Viva Media and other non-core assets into active investment in our core business and, during the course Music Publishing of the year, we reduced our net debt position by close EMI Music Publishing, under Martin Bandiers to 200m leaving year-end net debt at 859.8m, leadership, is, and has been for many years, its lowest level for four years.
demonstrably the best in the industry.
While not immune to the effects of a declining recorded music market from Our tax rate for the year was somewhat lower than which over 50% of its revenues derive, this business in previous years at 25%, mainly as a result of the has, once again, shown great resilience and has improved North American profitability and a more managed to maintain overall sales and profitability favourable business mix overall.
by developing and exploiting other revenue streams.
5 We have demonstrated that we have the resilience and flexibility to operate effectively and profitably in a range of market outcomes.
Due entirely to currency movements, sales in the year The Future fell marginally from 416.4m to 401.2m and operating Content is at the core of EMI developing and profit EBITA was 4% lower at 103.5m.
At constant supplying pure music content of the highest quality.
currency, sales were flat and operating profit was We are committed to providing consumers with the down by just 0.5%.
music they want, in the format they want, at a value they find compelling and we are working with a vast range Change retailers, distributors, hardware and software The extensive and challenging change programme manufacturers to make that vision a reality.
At the same of the past year was designed to put the group on a time, EMI is at the vanguard of industry efforts to protect much sounder financial footing and to allow us to be our content from theft.
Music is valuable to the people more flexible and responsive in the tough competitive who use it and to those who create it and own it.
Stealing conditions that we expect to prevail in the future.
That music is the same as stealing any other kind of property objective has been achieved.
and we will do everything within our power to prevent it.
The scale of the changes implemented over the course In a world in which more music is being consumed of the year was massive and their impact was often than ever before, at EMI, with our extremely deep and uncomfortable.
The improvement in the business could rich music content bank, we have a unique opportunity not have been achieved without the extraordinarily hard to develop new revenue streams.
work and dedication of my colleagues across the world.
I am proud of them and the way they have embraced The weakness in the recorded music market is not yet the need for a different way of operating.
over but we will be unrelenting in our efforts to attack the root causes of decline and to find ways to grow We have also seen change in our Board membership.
In May, Michael Jackson stepped down after only two and a half years as the consequence of a change of In the year ahead, while the market remains volatile ownership of his employer resulting in a conflict of and difficult to predict, we expect it to decline further interest.
In July, Hugh Jenkins retired after seven years but, probably, at a slower rate than last year.
We have of distinguished service and I thank both Michael and demonstrated that we have the resilience and flexibility Hugh for their support and wise counsel.
In September, to operate effectively and profitably in a range of market Peter Georgescu joined, bringing a wealth of valuable outcomes and we aim to make further progress media, advertising, consumer marketing and general in every part of our group.
management experience to bear on our strategic deliberations.
Since the year end, we have been joined by David Londoner, a renowned former securities analyst with extensive knowledge of the global media and entertainment industry and the North American investment community.
Eric Nicoli Chairman 6 Norah Jones Recorded Music EMI Recorded Music Top 20 Albums 2002 03 1 Norah Jones 2 Robbie 3 Coldplay Come Away Williams A Rush Of Blood With Me Escapology To The Head 11.8 m 5.8m 5.6m 5 Utada Hikaru 6 Herbert 7 Blue 4 Rolling Stones Deep River Grnemeyer One Love Forty Licks 4.2m Mensch 2.5m 5.5m 3.0m 8 Renaud 9 Queen 10 Kylie Minogue 11 Atomic Kitten Boucan denfer Queen Platinum Fever Feels So Good 1.8m Collection 1.6m 1.6m 1.7m 12 Paul McCartney 13 Snoop Dogg 14 David Bowie 15 The Beatles Back In the U. S. Paid Tha Cost Best of Bowie 1 Live 2002 To Be Da Bo$$ 1.3m 1.2m 1.4m 1.3m 16 Massive 17 Moby 18 George 19 Coldplay 20 The Vines Attack 18 Harrison Parachutes Highly Evolved 100th Window 1.0m Brainwashed 1.0m 0.9m 1.0m 1.0m
