Chairmans Statement Highlights 2003 2002 change Turnover 158.9m 179.7m -12% Operating profit 23.8m 29.1m -18% Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items 21.3m 25.2m -15% Profit before tax 7.4m 20.6m -64% Adjusted diluted earnings per share 20.5p 24.3p -16% Dividend 14.75p 14.75p Net debt 67.1m 62.8m 7% Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment and exceptional items as set out in the attached profit and loss account References to profits in the narrative below are to operating profit before goodwill amortization and impairment.
our company reported a profit before tax, goodwill amortization and exceptional items of Y21.3 million in the year to September 30, against 25.2 million for the previous 12 months.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 9.75p, making a total of 14.75p, the same as the previous year.
Adjusted diluted earnings a share were 20.5p, against 24.3p in 2002.
The company operated in a most difficult business environment during 2003.
The war in Iraq, a significant fall in the numbers of people travelling on business, a declining US dollar, and the scare over SARS contributed to an already unfavourable business climate as financial institutions cut advertising, subscriptions, sponsorship and training.
Throughout, the group maintained its commitment to position itself for growth, to remain as profitable as possible, and to continue to seek acquisitions.
In August, the group completed its first significant acquisition for two years, paying up to 16.5 million for HedgeFund Intelligence Limited.
Turnover fell from 180 million to 159 million, largely as a result of the fall in financial advertising, particularly in the US.
The weakness of the US dollar accounted for nearly half the decline, but the groups currency hedging policy minimised the effect on profits.
The results demonstrate the groups continued resilience in tough markets.
The fall in turnover was the same in the second half as the first.
However, turnover in the month of September was marginally higher than in September 2002, and profits in the month were the highest since September 2000, thanks to an excellent performance from Euromoney in particular, while advertising revenues at Institutional Investor improved for the first time in many months.
In total, September accounted for 16% of the groups turnover, and 40% of profits.
The results of the financial publishing businesses depend heavily on the advertising of global financial institutions, and Wall Street investment banks in particular.
Both have suffered significant cuts over the past couple of years.
As a result, financial advertising revenues fell 4.1 million to 32.8 million and profits fell 3.4 million to 10.4 million.
The Institutional Investor titles, with their focus on the pensions and asset management world, suffered most, with advertising revenues down 24%.
Asiamoney and Latin Finance also suffered falls in advertising revenues but were able to compensate for this through the launch of new products.
In contrast, Euromoney, with its debt and emerging markets focus, proved more robust.
The September issue of Euromoney, published to coincide with the annual IMF World Bank meeting, achieved revenues close to their highest for five years.
This excellent performance helped the magazine achieve advertising revenues for the year close to 2002s level.
Business publishing experienced contrasting performances across its different sectors.
Profits fell 2.5 million to 3.8 million after a 12% fall in advertising revenues.
The travel titles, which cover the aviation, shipping, business travel and duty-free sectors, accounted for most of this fall and there is little sign of any recovery in this sector.
In pharmaceuticals, advertising revenues weakened after a strong first half although the profit impact was mitigated by continued growth in subscription revenues.
Both the energy and legal publishing businesses had excellent years, increasing profits and continuing to grow through the launch of new products.
Gulf Publishing, acquired in August 2001 when it was loss-making, made a good contribution.
The strategy of growing the business through the roll-out of new products such as events and handbooks under the World Oil and Hydrocarbon Processing brands is proving very successful.
Page 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Chairmans Statement continued In contrast to publishing, both the events and training sides of the business have held up well.
Sponsored conferences and the Institutional Investor memberships were the best performers, emphasizing the value of the groups high quality face-to-face meeting businesses.
Events profits fell 1.7 million to 6.7 million in 2003, although half of this was due to the absence of Vinisud, the biennial wine exhibition run by our French business meeting subsidiary.
Of the other four key annual conferences run by the group, three managed to increase revenues despite the difficult markets.
The training businesses performed well after a difficult 2002.
Profits fell 10% to 4 million despite suffering from the continued constraints of cuts in company training budgets, and travel fears following the unrest in the Middle East and the SARS outbreak in Asia.
Business in Asia has picked up post-SARS and there are also signs of a recovery at MIS, our Boston-based audit and information security subsidiary.
Profits from the database and information services businesses increased 55% to 2.7 million.
After heavy investment in building Internet Securities, Inc. s emerging market database in 2000 and 2001, the business reached breakeven in September 2002.
It has remained profitable and continued to grow throughout 2003, adding new revenues of $1.2 million - nearly twice the pace it achieved in 2002 - improving its retention rate and significantly reducing its dependence on the financial sector.
ISI revenues have more than doubled to $16.2 million since its acquisition in 1999.
The Dealogic capital markets database joint ventures experienced a slight fall in subscription revenues, but continue to make a significant contribution despite the cuts in customer headcount.
Net debt at September 30 was 67.1 million against 62.8 million 12 months earlier.
The group continues to generate strong cash flows with nearly half its revenues generated from subscriptions and training.
The acquisition in August of HedgeFund Intelligence, a leading hedge fund publisher and event organizer, was financed from the groups existing multi-currency revolving credit facility.
The initial consideration was 11 million in cash, with a further payment of up to 5.5 million payable in February 2005 depending on HFIs profits for the year to November 30 2004.
HFI is performing well and the group has accrued for the full deferred payment at year end.
In the first half, two small businesses were sold for a cash consideration of 701,000 generating an exceptional gain of the same amount.
In the second half, the group completed a review of its past acquisitions with a view to better positioning the business for growth.
As a result, certain businesses have been merged and others restructured, and the associated goodwill is no longer separately identifiable.
This has led to an exceptional non-cash goodwill impairment charge of 7.8 million.
The charge relates to acquisitions made before 1997, since acquisitions after this date are being amortized through the profit and loss account in accordance with FRS 10.
In spite of the strong September performance, first quarter advertising revenues may be flat or slightly lower, although there are more cheerful signs in the companys training and event businesses.
Two thirds of the groups revenues are in dollars, and continued weakness of the US currency would affect first half revenues.
In general, the financial atmosphere has improved and the directors believe that the strength of the groups titles, its operational gearing and strong cash flows, and its investment in new products will drive profits as the business climate improves.
We were delighted to welcome Christopher Fordham, who manages our acquisition program as well as our legal and energy publishing businesses, to the board of the company in July.
Our people had to cope with a great deal of adversity in 2003.
I thank them on your behalf as well as mine, and wish them a safe and successful year.
