Chairmans statement Martin Gilbert Chairman Across all our divisions safety is our highest priority.
We We are encouraged by the opportunities UK Bus offers for continue to reinforce a culture of safety throughout our further organic growth.
Turnover in our business in London has Company, changing attitudes through education and training grown by 25m and we have seen passenger volume growth backed up by an ongoing programme of safety audits.
During of 1.5% in the rest of the country.
Traffic congestion continues the year we have made real progress in further strengthening to increase in towns and cities throughout the UK and we the business with successful initiatives in safety, staff training believe that the bus provides the most cost-effective and and environmental management.
The early success of congestion charging in London may offer further encouragement for other cities to I am very pleased to report further increases in Group adopt a similar approach.
turnover and operating profit that once again demonstrate the quality and cash generative nature of our business.
With In UK Rail we continue to build on our excellent record of over 300m of EBITDA operating profit plus depreciation delivering benefits to passengers through improved operating we have continued to invest in our operations to deliver value performance, enhanced service quality and the introduction to shareholders through growth in the business, increased of new rolling stock.
We are bidding for a number of new rail dividends and the repurchase of shares.
franchises which fit with our geographic and strategic profile of operations.
Turnover has increased by 6% to 2,291m 2002: 2,164m and profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional I am pleased to announce the appointment of Martyn Williams items increased by 2% to 159.8m 2002: 156.7m.
Adjusted to the Board as a Non-Executive Employee Director.
Martyn basic earnings per share has increased by 4% to 26.8p 2002: works for our UK Bus division in Swansea and has over 25 25.8p and the Board has proposed a final dividend, subject to years experience in the industry.
At the end of March 2003, approval by shareholders, of 7.45p making a full-year payment Robbie Duncan, Business Change Director, retired from the of 11p, an increase of 7%.
The dividend is covered 2.1 times Group.
I would like to thank Robbie for his contribution to the and will be paid on 29 August 2003 to shareholders on the development of the business since its formation eight years ago.
The Groups strong and sustainable Exceptional customer service is fundamental to our business.
cash flows and profits give the Board confidence that they will I would like to thank all of our staff for their hard work and be able to continue to increase dividends at above the rate of continued commitment to the business, which has resulted inflation going forward.
in another successful year for the Group.
Since the Groups formation eight years ago dividends have Our strategy is clear.
We continue to focus on delivering increased each year giving a Compound Annual Growth Rate shareholder value by developing our business in markets which CAGR of 13%.
Over the same period, operating profit has offer the best opportunity for profitable growth and in areas grown from 42m to 216m CAGR 26% and EBITDA has where we can utilise our core skills.
We have a well-balanced grown from 62m to 315m CAGR 26%.
portfolio of businesses which are relatively resilient to economic We continue to build on our successful strategy of focusing on downturn and are not heavily impacted by macro economic three business segments: North America, UK Bus and UK Rail.
The Groups strong cash generation underpins the continuing programme of investment in the business, share We are very pleased with the progress we have made in North repurchase and dividend growth.
I believe that the prospects America.
In US Dollar terms turnover has increased 16% and for the Group are excellent.
Our student bus business has continued to grow, with contracts in a number of new regions.
We have also seen growth in our transit and services divisions and we are confident that there are further opportunities for Martin Gilbert expansion in these businesses.
Since acquisition in 1999, Chairman operating profits from our North American operations have grown by 50%.
Operating profit referred to in this statement and in the Chief Executives review and Financial review refers to operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
