02 FKI plc Annual report 2003 The results that we have achieved and the fact that we have retained our market positions in a very competitive environment are due to the commitment of all the Groups employees and I would like to thank them for their efforts throughout a difficult year.
The economic environment in the US and In these tough markets, turnover and Chairmans statement Europe, concerns about the spread of profits declined.
More detail is given in the terrorism and the uncertainty in the period operating and financial reviews in this leading up to and during the Iraq war Annual report, which show that operating affected business and consumer confidence profits have reduced to around half the level and combined to make this year a very of two years ago.
Consequently, in the difficult one for FKI.
trading update on 1 April 2003, the Board announced that it anticipated recommending Last year, we reported that we expected a final dividend reduced from last years a downturn in the first half but that we level.
The dividend will be rebased to reflect anticipated an improvement in the Groups current levels of profitability and debt.
performance in the second half, based on Maintenance of the previous level of some recovery in demand together with the dividend would have significantly reduced benefits of various steps we had taken to the Groups headroom under its borrowing reduce costs.
While the cost improvements covenants.
Accordingly, in addition to the were realised, for reasons outlined above interim dividend for the year ended we suffered further reductions in demand 31 March 2003 of 4.2p paid on 28 February which continued through the second half.
2003, it is proposed to pay a final dividend Customers reduced their general levels of of 0.3p per share on 31 October 2003 spending and a significant number of large to shareholders on the register at capital projects were delayed or cancelled.
This proposed final This particularly applied in the energy dividend brings the total dividends for the generation market.
Having rebased the dividend, the Board intends to adopt a progressive policy in future within a guideline of dividends being covered a minimum of two times.
In future years, dividends will be split between interim and final more in line with market practice.
03 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Chairmans statement Regrettably, economic conditions have Much attention has been given recently in necessitated a number of actions to reduce the business community to the question costs which have affected many of our of the importance of good corporate employees.
The results that we have governance.
These matters are regularly achieved and the fact that we have retained reviewed by the Board and in the Directors our market positions in a very competitive report there is a statement on the procedures environment are due to the commitment for internal controls, audit and evaluation of of all the Groups employees and I would potential business risks.
You will see that like to thank them for their efforts we have nine directors, five of whom are throughout this difficult year.
I chair the Nominations committee, and the Remuneration and Bob Beeston, who joined FKI as Audit committees are separately led by Chief Executive in January 1992, retired other non-executive directors.
During his time as to be able to say that the non-executive and Chief Executive he pursued a balance the executive directors work effectively between growth companies and high together as a team.
As a result of these policies, FKI has been Finally, the actions we have taken during the well placed to cope with the downturns last two difficult years to cut costs will not of the last two years.
I would like to place impair the Groups ability to respond on record my thanks to him for all that to improvements in demand when the he did for FKI and we all wish him a economic environment improves and we happy retirement.
remain confident about the long-term prospects of the Group.
In his place we welcome Paul Heiden who was appointed Chief Executive in January 2003 and who joined us from Rolls-Royce.
Pauls first task has been to familiarise himself with the Groups businesses and to take further action in the face of weak demand.
He is in the process of reviewing the Groups strategy, a task which we expect to be completed towards the end of this calendar year.
