ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 3 Tonnage Related Turnover Analysis Year ended 31st December 2003 G m A F APiped 17.4 B Containers 15.0 E C Paper and Pulp 15.4 D Other Forest Products 6.3 B D E Agricultural Bulks 10.1 F Other Dry Bulks 4.3 C G Other Cargo 9.3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHRISTOPHER COLLINS 2003 has again been successful.
In the last Changes to the management structure within People few years, strategies for generating growth the Scottish Ports have resulted in a greater I am pleased to welcome Gerry Brown and in our ports and property businesses have awareness of our market opportunities Struan Robertson who joined the Board in been developed.
The strong trading and an increased focus on winning new September.
Together they bring experience performance for 2003 demonstrates delivery business.
We also completed the successful in construction, property, logistics and oil of these strategies.
Group turnover increased transfer of the Forth and Tay navigation and gas.
Graham Webster will retire at the by 12% to 156.3m, profit before tax, after function to a new facility at Grangemouth.
Annual General Meeting and we thank him exceptional items, rose 17% to 53.2m 2002 for his greatly valued contribution over nine restated 45.4m and underlying earnings Property years as a Board Member.
per share increased by over 7% to 70.4p per The property division improved its operating In order to give employees a further share 2002 65.6p.
In addition, several profits before exceptional items by nearly opportunity to become shareholders, the initiatives should produce longer term 11% with the sale of several residential plots Board will submit a resolution at the Annual benefits for our shareholders.
at Granton and Western Harbour.
In June General Meeting for the establishment of a 2003, we received outline planning approval new Save as You Earn Scheme.
Dividend for a 3,400 unit residential development at The Directors propose a final dividend of Granton.
As a result, the balance of 2.6m, Outlook 24.2p per share giving a total dividend for the due from our 10% equity partner Bellhouse In the current year, trading within the ports year of 36.3p, an overall increase of 10%.
The Joseph Leith Limited BJL, was received division has got off to a good start at Tilbury final dividend, if approved by the shareholders during the year.
The infrastructure work but a slower one in Scotland.
We expect at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on required for Western Harbour and Granton growth in our ports business overall for 2004, 14th May 2004 to all shareholders on the started to gather pace in the second half although this will occur in the second half, register at 16th April 2004. of 2003 and will accelerate during 2004. particularly in Scotland.
Our proposed sales Working with the City of Edinburgh Council programme in property this year, when Ports the Council, we will bring forward executed, will also deliver growth although this The ports business produced an excellent proposals for the long-term development might be affected by timing considerations result, with profit up 9%.
In particular, Tilbury of our remaining land at Leith.
Overall, we have confidence performed well.
In November, Tilbury was might impact the timing of specific planning that 2004 should be another successful year.
successful in winning new business from one consents and sales of housing plots this of the worlds largest paper producers, Stora year, but should have a beneficial impact Enso, who will use the Port of Tilbury from on the medium to long-term realisation of mid-2005 to import over 700,000 tonnes of value from our property.
The Scottish Ports benefited from a good increase in containers The Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre at Grangemouth and a full years effect of the continued to attract new lettings in a difficult Rosyth ferry service.
market, with the addition of several well known retailers.
Footfall has risen substantially and further lettings have Christopher Collins been achieved since the year end.
