Chairmans statement Results profit before interest, taxation, amortisation, exceptional items and discontinued operations was 80.2m compared with 80.0m as adjusted for a non-recurring profit of approximately 3m related to services in connection with the introduction of the Euro for the previous year.
profit margins declined in the United Kingdom and in the EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa region, increased in Asia and remained the same in the Americas.
The groups overall profit margin on sales fell from 6.9% to 6.3%.
Dividend The directors recommend a final dividend of 1.62p per share, payable on 5 April 2004, which, taken with the interim dividend of 0.78p per share paid on 30 September 2003, makes a total ordinary dividend of 2.40p per share for the year ended 30 September 2003.
This represents an increase Dividend per share of 13.7% per share over the previous years dividend.
pence 2.40 2.11 Disposals 1.65 In July 2003 we sold our remaining 50% interest in the Distribution division to Deutsche Post for u247m 167m.
We returned 75m of the sale proceeds to our shareholders by way of a special dividend of 12p per share which was accompanied by a 17 for 20 consolidation of the then existing Securicor shares.
During the year, we also completed the sale of Securicor Information Systems, the 01 02 03 last of our Communications businesses, so that by the year end we had become totally focused on our security business.
Underlying EPS Chairmanship pence Sir Neil Macfarlane retired as Chairman in May.
It had been intended that I would succeed Sir Neil 7.3 6.8 as Chairman at the beginning of November but, due to ill-health, Sir Neil decided to step down 6.0 earlier and I thus assumed the Chairmanship in May.
Sir Neil served on the board of Securicor with great dedication and skill over a period of ten years, becoming Chairman in 1995.
During his period of ofce two very significant corporate events took 01 02 03 place.
First, in 1996, the groups two listed entities, Securicor Group plc and Security Services plc, with five classes of shares between them, were combined into a single Securicor plc with one class Excluding effect of Euro introduction in 2002. of shares.
Then, in 1999, the group sold to BT its 40% stake in Cellnet for 3.15bn.
Sir Neils former colleagues have told me how much they appreciated his support and wisdom throughout his tenure and particularly during those two critical transactions.
6 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Underlying EBITA I am pleased to report that Sir Neil is now t again and, whilst thanking him for his great m contribution to Securicor, we wish him a long and happy retirement.
80.2 80.0 68.8 Staff tributes I know that each year it is traditional for the Chairman to pay tribute to the commitment and loyalty of Securicor staff throughout the world.
I have so far only had limited opportunity to get to know the groups employees, but those whom I have met have impressed me with 01 02 03 their enthusiasm and expertise.
Excluding effect of Euro introduction in 2002.
The group has well over 100,000 staff working worldwide and I thank them all for their contribution to the continued wellbeing of Securicor.
I commend in particular the many employees around the world who have been the recipients of bravery awards as a result of their action when confronted by criminals.
Senior management I have also been impressed by the strength of Securicors senior team under the leadership of Nick Buckles.
The group is fortunate to have a core of vastly experienced, highly commercial managers who are ever alert to new opportunities in the international security industry.
Future prospects At the half year, we indicated that difficult market conditions would impact some of our businesses in the second half.
Despite these market difficulties, our businesses have performed well overall, maintaining the focus on service delivery and customer retention whilst driving out costs.
We continue our security focus.
With our leading market positions, strong balance sheet and high-quality management, there are good opportunities for turnover and margin growth in the year ahead, through both organic expansion and acquisitions.
We are responding robustly to the challenges which we continue to face in some of our markets and we can therefore look forward to 2004 with greater confidence.
Colin Sharman Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7
