THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 3 The Boards report on their stewardship to the owners of the business for the year ended 31 January 2003.
Peter Lewis Chairman Chairmans Report Dear Owner making a total for the year of 1p 0.8p.
later in this report, we address our growth It was another good year.
This increase is a result of the Groups prospects for 2003 and the adaption of strong cash position and your Boards our business model deriving from our Results confidence in the underlying business.
Operating profit, before goodwill amortisation and last years provision for re-branding, A brief review of the year Our Business increased to a record 32.4m 31.2m.
Our Market During the year, there were 12 net Pre-tax profits before goodwill amortisation A year ago the UK market for computer store openings in the UK and 48 in our were up 26% to 33.1m 26.3m.
software and video games was expected to European markets of France, Spain Turnover grew by 23% to 560m 454m grow in 2002 by as much as 25%.
This increased our with like for like sales up 12%.
Gross profit market leader, our profits were expected to European store base by 73% generating margin reduced to 28.1% 29.9% in line grow proportionately.
In the event, the total sales growth of 100%.
It also added with expectations for the launch year of Xbox market did increase, but by 8%.
As soon inevitable start-up costs with a consequent and GameCube.
Basic earnings per share as it was clear to your Board that market short-term drag effect on Group profits.
were 4.4p 3.33p with adjusted EPS, before growth was going to be less than previous goodwill amortisation, of 5.98p 4.91p.
Stores trading at 31 January 2003 2002 forecasts, with the inevitable impact on your Your Board is proposing an increase in the Groups profits increase, we were quick to Company owned & final dividend of 37.5% to 0.55p per share concessions ensure that our investors were informed.
UK 335 323 The reasons for the shortfall against Europe 114 66 expectations were a combination of the Franchises sharp drop-off in customer traffic Europe 58 58 experienced by most high street retailers Total Outlets 507 447 and industry specific issues, including lower than anticipated sales of both Nintendos This was a year of substantial investment in GameCube and to a lesser extent our fledgling European business not only in Microsofts Xbox in their launch year.
Total stores but in management, systems and IT.
console unit sales in 2002 increased Europe now represents 12% of Group significantly over the previous year but by Sales, and made a small loss in the year.
By contrast, We are at an early stage in the software sales were up 11% by value.
development of our business in these In response to these trading conditions, markets and while much of the initial industry wide promotional activity was groundwork needed to create a solid foundation for the future expansion has intense and GAME responded very been done, there is still some way to go.
effectively, driving up seasonal like for like sales from a mid-December negative of 5% to a positive 4% for the whole Christmas Season.
Moreover, this strategy maintained our dominant market share, successfully resisting the competitive attempts of mass merchandisers and others.
In 2002, the UK games market continued to be the largest in Europe with an estimated value of 2.1bn.
This was twice the size of video rental and almost 1 1 2 times bigger than cinema box office spending.
In The Way Ahead section, Source: ELSPA ChartTrack.
THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 5 GAME continues to be strongly cash generative.
In the year net cash inflow from operating activities increased by 26% to 37.4m 29.7m.
Chairmans Report... continued Each of our three businesses is at a this programme prior to the annual renewal invaluable contribution to our affairs during different stage of development.
In 2003 of its authority at the AGM on 3 July, when his term.
He is succeeded by Christopher our plans for France are a continuation the Group will seek shareholders approval Bell, 45, who is Chief Executive of of the remodelling of the acquired to increase this figure from 5% to 10% in Ladbrokes Worldwide and a main board ScoreGames chain as well as the line with current practice.
director of Hilton Group Plc.
enhancement of IT Systems and the During the year, the Board authorised the Following Sir Richards retirement, strengthening of the local management purchase of land at Basingstoke for the team.
In Sweden, where much of the key William Slee, 62, who has been a member creation of a new Distribution and Head foundation stage is behind us, our efforts of the Board since September 2001, was will be concentrated on accelerating store Office facility, which we expect to be appointed Senior Independent Director.
expansion, whilst in Spain we seek to completed in early 2004.
The existing improve overall performance with a more leasehold premises at Bracknell are Our People modest store expansion programme.
inadequate for the future requirements of It would be remiss of me not to note that our fast growing business.
This our successful response to the challenges In the UK, the re-branding from Electronics development will be largely financed of 2002 trading conditions was made Boutique to GAME was completed on by 10 year loans which have been possible only by the commitment and schedule and within budget.
In 2003 we negotiated with a major UK bank energy of our outstanding workforce.
expect to accelerate our store opening on favourable terms.
Provision of 14.7m for potential deferred In October 2002, we sought in the High consideration payments in respect of the Court to clarify our rights to terminate the acquisitions in 2001 in France and Spain long standing services agreement with will no longer be required and goodwill in Electronics Boutique Inc EBI.
On appeal, the balance sheet has accordingly been the court upheld the agreement which reduced by this amount.
We continue to pay EBI 1% of our UK turnover.
Board Changes Treasury On 28 February 2003 the Board GAME continues to be strongly cash announced that its long serving Chief generative.
In the year net cash inflow Executive, John Steinbrecher, had decided from operating activities increased by 26% to return to his native United States.
Despite a substantial relinquishes his role on 31 January 2004 increase in capital expenditure to 22.3m after over 8 very successful years.
7.0m driven largely by the re-branding programme and our store investment in Martin Long, 36, who has been a director and has worked side by side with John Europe and the UK, the Group ended the year with net cash of 37.4m 35.9m.
since 1995 and as Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer for over 3 years, In the last two years GAME has generated net cash inflow from operating activities has been named Chief Executive Designate and will succeed John on his return to the of 67.1m.
Martin will continue to act as Chief As a result of our strong cash generation Financial Officer in the meantime and the and the weakness in our share price, on Board will appoint a Finance Director in 28 January 2003 the Board commenced due course.
Lisa Morgan, 32, has been the buy back of our own shares for promoted from Commercial Director to cancellation, in order to enhance Deputy Chief Executive Designate.
Including 1,000,000 shares purchased prior to the year end, a On 25 January Sir Richard Greenbury, 66, total of 11,450,000 shares have now been retired from the Board, as a Non-executive acquired at an average price of 36.98p.
Director so as to pursue his many other The Board has current powers to continue retirement interests.
He made an Source: ELSPA ChartTrack.
THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 7 In the UK, 2002 video game console unit sales were up 44% to 3.3 million Chairmans Report... continued In addition to the Main Board changes there and more mature market of the USA, have been important internal and external specialist retailers, like GAME, continue to appointments to the key trading subsidiaries, grow their store base and market share.
in particular strengthening Operations, Property Management, Human Resources Current and Future Trading and our commercial team, to meet the In 2003 we aim to exploit our commercial needs of the next phase of our growth.
advantages in the UK, whilst in Europe the emphasis is on honing our management The Way Ahead systems and capabilities.
We expect the The challenge of Christmas 2002 video games market to grow and your demanded a swift response by your managements task is to ensure that GAME management which was both forthcoming takes its full share of the opportunities.
Very few UK retailers were In the first half of last year like for like sales able to match GAMEs success in reporting increased by 29% due to the unprecedented 2002 as a record year.
event of two major systems launches in Since the year end, management has built quick succession.
Thus, in value terms, this on these experiences and adapted our years comparisons for the first half will be business model to suit these new misleading, nevertheless, in the 12 weeks conditions.
In 2003 and beyond, much to 26 April which incorporated the launch greater emphasis is being given to our of Xbox in 2002, this years overall sales competitive advantages which taken are up by 10% with same store sales up together represent a unique selling 1%.
Your Board is encouraged by this proposition.
These include the loyalty data performance which is ahead of budget, base now 3.9 million customers, our with margins in line with internal forecasts.
preowned programme, multi-buy product In addition, GAME has further increased its offers, unrivalled range of products, our UK market share.
all-round superior instore service and local Your Board is anticipating another price competitiveness.
Your Board believes that by harnessing these competitive advantages together with our philosophy of empowering store management to respond to local trading conditions, GAME will benefit from further advances in the games market predicted for this year.
Industry reports indicate the world wide games market may grow to Peter Lewis $18.5bn this year $16.9bn in 2002.
Chairman Since 1995, the global leisure software market has almost tripled in value.
There are few, if any, other markets that can show comparable growth.
In the UK, 2002 video game console unit sales were up 44% to 3.3 million.
This increase in the installed base will stimulate demand for software sales this year and beyond.
The UK is the third largest games market in the world.
Of great significance to the future of GAME is that in the largest Source: ELSPA ChartTrack.
