Our world Our world Geest PLC 01 Chairmans letter Sir John Banham, Chairman Dear Shareholder, This confidence is reflected by an increase in our It is with pleasure that I can report to you, in my first dividend of 10%.
The Board is recommending a final full year as Chairman, that your Company continues dividend of 12.9 pence making a total for the year to grow strongly.
2003 was a challenging year for of 20.9 pence which will be payable on 30 June 2004 all food manufacturers.
Nonetheless, we achieved to all shareholders on the register at the close of a 12 % sales growth.
In addition, the Board intends to implement a share buy back programme Whilst I am writing this to you in your capacity to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital as a shareholder, it is also highly likely that you are to be held as treasury shares.
a consumer of food made by Geest.
As such, you will know that major UK food retailers, our customers, The results in detail are covered in the Operating seek to offer customers better value for money.
We and financial review from page 24 so I will highlight have also seen rising input costs.
We are a relatively the headline figures here.
Group operating profit, before young business and there are many areas where exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation, grew by we can continue to improve our overall efficiency 6% to 46 million and pre-exceptional earnings per share substantially to counter these pressures.
We have a strong balance this environment makes the job of all the people sheet and invested 47 million in the business, of which in your Company particularly challenging.
That they some 35 million is in new capacity for our continuing have delivered these results is to their credit and I growth.
We made good operational progress in 2003 would like to thank all employees on behalf of the Board.
and launched over 800 products, opened two new, highly automated facilities, integrated Crudi, our French I would also like to thank Bob Davies for his excellent acquisition, and expanded our customer base.
contribution as Senior non-executive Director over the past six years.
Bob retires, as per Geest policy, I would like to reconfirm that I am confident in the future in May and we wish him well in his future ventures.
It has high quality At the time of writing we are in the process of recruiting products and valuable market positions in growth his replacement.
It demonstrates good relationships with leading retailers, is financially sound, has a well-invested We remain focused as a Company on fresh prepared asset base, is run on a prudent basis and has as good foods and produce.
These areas continue to see high a set of people as I have met in my business life.
growth rates, fulfilling consumer demand for fresh Please read on to understand why I am a fan of Geest.
foods that are of high quality and convenient.
In addition, given the higher profile of healthy eating see pages Yours sincerely 56 to 61, we are increasingly confident of our strategic positioning in these areas.
