Achieving real leadership in our sector continuing the organic in the final dividend of 43% to growth of Morrison Homes 8.45 pence per share, bringing the total for the year to 12.25 achieving industry leading pence, a rise of 35% on 2002. standards of quality and The dividend cover has been customer satisfaction reduced to 5.6 times, providing the capacity for the Board The Chief Executives Report sets out on pages 4-6 how we to increase dividends at a somewhat faster rate than will develop these strategies further this year to ensure we earnings in the coming years, if that is appropriate.
continue to deliver the long term growth that we aim for.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Board JOHN ROBINSON Group Results During the year the Board has continued to play an Building on the outstanding Three years ago I wrote results in 2002, the Groups active and supportive role in We are in the process of our operational businesses.
performance has yet again seen creating a new Company substantial further progress in We continue to place great with renewed emphasis importance on ensuring we 2003.
Group turnover rose by on shareholder value.
11% to 2,879 million and, on have a balance of knowledge and experience and that this the back of sharply improved Since writing the 2000 Annual margins, Group profit before tax meets the requirements of Report we have transformed our operating companies.
and exceptionals rose by 30% to the structure of our business, 378 million.
Earnings per share our financial results have In October, we welcomed rose by 31% to 68.5p per share.
improved to be amongst Brenda Dean, Baroness Dean the best in our sector and we As we announced at the of Thornton-le-Fylde, as a have consistently delivered Non Executive Director.
Brenda time of our Interim results industry leading growth in July, the Board has adopted is an active member of the in earnings and returns for House of Lords and brings a strategy of enhanced our shareholders.
This reects considerable knowledge of the public sector to the confidence we have that This year, we have achieved the underlying performance the Board at a time when that success and created Government has an a strong business through of our Company has been fundamentally transformed.
increasing impact on our implementing the four business.
Brenda retired distinct strategies, set out in Over time, we will look to last years Annual Report: reduce the currently high as Chairman of the Housing Corporation during 2003, level of dividend cover, but increasing margins in our at the same time ensure we a position which has given core UK business her a wealth of knowledge maintain a prudent balance developing our premium sheet.
The Board is therefore which will be of value to business, Laing Homes recommending an increase the Company.
2George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 Chairmans Statement In October we also announced During 2003 we have several initiatives that aim their businesses and their that Keith Cushen would be further developed our to improve the supply of continuing dedication retiring from the Board at the commitment to Corporate housing and create a more and enthusiasm to ensure end of 2003.
Keith has played Social Responsibility and stable housing environment.
George Wimpey is truly a major role in the transsustainability.
We established We welcome these initiatives successful.
Once again, on formation of this business over a new CSR Board Committee, behalf of the Board I am and have taken part in the the past three years.
On behalf chaired by Christine Cross.
consultation processes that delighted to be able to thank The Committee met twice of the Board I would like are aimed at ensuring a them for all their hard work.
to express our thanks and during the second half of constructive debate on Outlook 2003 and will establish, appreciation for the enormous housing.
We are all too aware Across our businesses we contribution he has made to monitor and review CSR that Government policy can entered 2004 with strong activities to ensure that our George Wimpey in his almost have consequences other order books and our 20 years of service at local, businesses are constantly than those intended, and will markets in the UK and the working to improve their national and Board level.
respond directly to policy US remain healthy.
statements, as well as through Corporate Governance and the Housebuilders Federation Our continuing focus on Corporate Social Responsibility A separate CSR Report has and the CBI.
costs and emphasis on We aim to achieve the highest again been published to buying land on improved standards of corporate accompany this Annual Employees terms is aimed at sustaining governance and once again, Report.
It sets out in detail During this year I have been the improvement we have I am pleased to report that the our CSR activities and reports fortunate to spend a greater made in our operating Board operated throughout on the targets identified amount of time in our regional margins.
We have a strong the year in full compliance last year for the key areas businesses in both the UK and business and have developed with the Combined Code of impact of our business.
the US, meeting employees our strategy seeking to on Corporate Governance.
out on our sites and in our Government deliver continuous profit During the year the ofces.
I am always impressed The Board has reviewed the growth based on our existing new Combined Code which Government has introduced by the pride they have in strengths and not by relying applies to listed companies with on external conditions.
reporting years commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board is confident We feel that we already that George Wimpey will Dividend Per Share Basic Earnings 15 operate in substantial continue to make further pence Per Share pence compliance with the new progress in 2004.
12 60 Code but, following a review, 9 45 new procedures and changes JOHN ROBINSON 6 30 have been implemented.
We have included a number of 3 15 additional disclosures in this Report that the new Code 99 00 01 02 03 99 00 01 02 03 does not require to be made until our 2004 Report.
