CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Throughout our operations, the increased UK RAILWAYS Simultaneously international airlines, attempting MANAGEMENT AND STAFF This is the first Annual Report Statement I closure of the link through London, will use of closed circuit television CCTV and There is a debate at all levels, in Government to protect their slots at Heathrow, consolidated In this my first report, I have followed the write as chairman of your company.
I would commence later this year.
the availability of secure radio connections and the rail industry, on what constitutes an flights from other UK airports, particularly practice of my predecessor in indicating both like first to pay tribute to my predecessor, Sir As a result of these delays, the SRA feels give a higher level of confidence to both affordable railway for the future.
The number of flights from Heathrow areas of opportunity and those of concern.
Frederick Holliday, whose leadership and wise unable to adopt its original plan to offer a passengers and staff.
We continue to seek the Thames and Thameslink Trains franchises, has virtually recovered to pre September 11 We have an enviable reputation based on our counsel made an important contribution to franchise co-terminous with South Central, to opportunities to improve safety and security operated by Go-Ahead and its joint venture levels, but Gatwick has lost a sizeable amount highly professional management and staff.
This the successes which we report.
keep GOVIA management in place over the on all our services.
GOVIA for over six years, we currently pay of business.
year our deputy chief executive is president I am pleased to report on another very two major developments.
Instead it is looking annual premiums of the Confederation of Passenger Transport, to the exchequer of around successful year for the Go-Ahead Group.
BUS SERVICES IN LONDON to negotiate a two-year franchise extension Into this Gatwick market, BAA thought it the chief executive from our aviation services 44 million, compared with the 53.5 million Turnover for the year to 28 June 2003, The introduction of congestion charging in the to 2006 to tide the network over the CTRL wise to introduce another competing handler.
is the president of the Institute of Logistics subsidy paid by Government for those two including share of joint ventures, has increased capital was only possible following substantial construction phase.
Thereafter it may seek In consequence, aviance in Gatwick has lost and Transport, and the chief executive of our networks prior to our franchises.
This highlights by 16.1% to 1,102million 2002 949 increases in the level of contracted bus services competition for a seven-year franchise to take certain key contracts which were part of the railway interests is the new chairman of the the benefits of putting passenger services out million.
Profit before exceptional items, from Transport for London TfL.
Go-Ahead the network up to the implementation of the original logic of acquiring GHI in 1998.
In other Association of Train Operating Companies.
to franchise, and the importance of having local goodwill and tax charges is 65.5 million bus operators London Central and London Thameslink 2000 project.
locations, aviance has not been immune to Following the extraordinary successes of our managers with a strong interest in improving 2002 49.4 million.
Earnings per share General have recruited nearly 400 new drivers the problems of its customer base, but the Negotiations have commenced on the terms bus companies under his control, we have local services.
These advantages may be on an adjusted basis rose 32.2% to 78.9p over the last year and have acquired 273 new difficulties at Gatwick have been most acute.
promoted David Brown to be chief executive threatened by the current structure and 2002 59.7p.
This year more than ever, the buses with a capital value of 40 million.
In consequence, our earnings from aviation of our London bus businesses.
cost of providing a national network.
THAMES TRAINS management and staff of all of the Go-Ahead Recent statistics from TfL suggest bus services have not reached the expectations we The Thames Trains franchise is due to businesses deserve our thanks for an passenger-kilometres have increased by almost SOUTH CENTRAL We have the right team and we have excellent had at the time of our acquisition of GHI and, terminate at the same time as the Thameslink outstanding effort.
12% compared with the same period in 2002.
After almost three years of negotiations, opportunities.
more latterly, British Midland Handling, Midland franchise in Spring 2004.
The SRA has decided Go-Aheads Metrobus subsidiary has also our GOVIA joint venture signed a seven-year In my statement accompanying the interim Aviation Services and Reed Aviation.
PROSPECTS that, from the end of the Great Western increased its TfL contracts.
Despite this huge franchise with the Strategic Rail Authority result published in February, I reported that the We continue to have confidence in our franchise in 2006, it will consolidate Great Before the introduction of FRS 10, goodwill expansion, the three companies are at the top SRA, determinable after five years at the board would continue to pursue a progressive businesses in both bus and rail in London Western, Thames and the Wessex franchises arising on acquisitions was written off directly of the London league tables for reliability and SRAs option, which will allow GOVIA to make dividend policy and that it believed that a and the South.
We have many challenges in to create a Greater Western franchise.
Goto reserves as and when it arose.
Under FRS quality of services: a remarkable achievement.
returns that compensate for the risks involved reduction of Go-Aheads traditionally high revitalising the South Central network, not least Ahead has been negotiating for an extension 10, it has been standard practice in many The Mayor of London said staff behind in the franchise as well as the investments levels of dividend cover was justified.
A final taking on large quantities of new rolling stock.
of the Thames Trains franchise for over a year.
companies to write off goodwill at a fixed Londons bus service have gone the extra mile to date.
South Central is acquiring 700 new dividend of 18p per share is now proposed, In London, our focus is to make sure that our In the middle of this process, FirstGroup made amount per year, usually over 20 years.
The to help deliver the biggest set of improvements Bombardier Electrostar vehicles, of which payable to shareholders on the register at the bus businesses remain at the top of the league an unsolicited approach to the SRA offering group believes this approach is artificial and to services for 50 years.
That is certainly true 180 have been delivered, and a further close of business on 24 October 2003.
The for quality and reliability.
to consolidate Thames Trains and the Great has little merit and has adopted the accounting of Go-Aheads London staff and management.
42 Bombardier Class 170 diesel powered total dividend for the year will then be 25p Western franchise, currently operated by policy within the terms of FRS 10 set out in Although we are still experiencing difficulties carriages.
This fleet is intended to replace 2002 17p, reducing the dividend cover to BUS SERVICES IN THE SOUTH EAST FirstGroup, with effect from Spring 2004.
in the aviation services market, the changing the old, unacceptable, slam-door trains, 3.2 times adjusted earnings.
The board intends Go-Ahead bus businesses in Oxford and SRA decided to terminate the Thames Trains structure of the airline and airport industry and to increase capacity.
By not amortising this goodwill, the board to reduce the dividend cover still further Brighton continue to grow and develop with extension negotiations and to run a competition gives us long-term opportunities which we accepts the responsibility to consider the value going forward.
the support of local authorities promoting Unfortunately, the infrastructure for the for a new Thames Trains franchise to operate are confident of developing.
of the goodwill on an annual basis and to public transport through bus priority schemes.
Electrostar trains does not have an adequate In my time as a board member, Go-Ahead has from 2004 to 2006.
We have submitted a bid, conduct appropriate impairment reviews.
The new financial year has started well, and we Metrobus in Crawley and Gatwick has power supply, so it will not be before continued to concentrate the expansion of its as have FirstGroup.
continue to develop successfully for the future.
expanded substantially, again with the support 2005 2006 that they can operate to their A review has taken place and the board is of public transport and car parking businesses in In the absence of firm evidence that we are of local authorities and BAA.
designed potential across the whole of the the opinion that short-term returns will not London and the South East, while its aviation to continue operating Thames Trains, we have network.
Sir Patrick Brown justify the carrying value of the investment services are focused across the UK.
This year This partnership concept with local authorities provided for the unavoidable costs of fulfilling Chairman in our aviation services division.
The company has seen our joint venture GOVIA sign a new gives bus operators continuing opportunities In the meantime, South Central management obligations in the final year of the franchise, has adopted the accepted discounted cash flow franchise for the South Central railway.
Since for profitable investment, and for making a is committed to improving the reliability, 2003 04, in this years results under the terms calculation to determine the impairment and the year end, we have acquired a further bus significant contribution to the quality of life in punctuality, cleanliness and acceptability of of FRS 12.
4 September 2003 is writing down the goodwill relating to our operator, Wilts and Dorset, with its principal the areas served.
Our experience suggests that the trains and stations under its control.
Even AVIATION SERVICES AND GOODWILL aviation services businesses by 20million in activity based on the South Coast.
Go-Ahead local authorities outside London can achieve though the new vehicles form an essential part The tragedy of 11 September 2001 served the accounts for this year.
foresees steady growth in its UK-based substantial improvements in public transport of this improvement, management and staff as a catalyst to expose the weaknesses in the transport market.
simply by imaginative partnerships with their have made significant progress with the existing, Meteor Parking has also been affected by the traditional aviation markets.
Many of aviances local bus companies.
inappropriate infrastructure and rolling stock.
reorganisation going on in the world of air SAFETY airline customers experienced dramatic transport.
Car parking is a key feature of all Under my chairmanship, your company will BUS SERVICES IN THE NORTH EAST THAMESLINK reductions in traditional traffic flows, while airport operations.
Meteor is well positioned continue to regard safety as its first priority.
In the North East, the executive arm of the The current seven-year Thameslink franchise low-cost competitors have been more to take opportunities as they arise, and very Throughout our businesses, we are guided by local authorities transport joint committee, held by GOVIA is due to terminate in Spring successful in offering point to point journeys, well experienced to undertake necessary the principle that those we serve have a right Nexus, is responsible for apportioning subsidy 2004.
The franchise was let in 1997, when it relying on greater load factors to offset reorganisations as the airport car parking to expect us to take proper care of them and for implementing concessionary fare was widely assumed that the Channel Tunnel cheaper prices.
A corollary of this new business changes to meet new circumstances.
We will continue to focus policies to bus companies.
This same Rail Link CTRL which temporarily severs market was a requirement to keep supply on improving, auditing and monitoring our organisation is also directly responsible for the Thameslink line and Thameslink 2000 Meteor also has the skills and experience to costs to a minimum.
safety procedures, assisted by external support, the Metro system, which competes with schemes would be completed well before take on car parking development in our train In reacting to the competition, the traditional through all levels in our company.
We will bus companies in the area.
An arms length the franchise end: indeed there was provision businesses.
It is working with the Go-Ahead airlines have also had to look to their suppliers not tolerate unsafe practices in or around relationship, normal elsewhere, would be for early termination of the franchise if those and GOVIA railway managements to develop to stand some of the cost of the competition our organisation.
Instead, delays more secure and profitable car parks at the and of the falling revenues.
Ground handling in the projects have meant that the existing rail stations involved in their franchises.
We have played our part in the introduction Go-Aheads view remains that the bus has not been exempt from this cost pressure.
service has had to cater for traffic expansion of the train protection and warning system continues to be the most cost-effective option for which the existing facilities are quite TPWS, on time and in line with the Cullen for public transport.
Experience shows that its inadequate.
Overcrowding is a major headache inquiry recommendations.
TPWS is a major cost effectiveness is best maintained through for passengers and staff alike.
The Thameslink and long overdue improvement in safety on local authority partnerships not local 2000 project is unlikely to be completed Britains railways.
The CTRL works, and temporary 4 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 5 FINANCIAL REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED consequences of permanent tax differences 2 million.
The majority of the amounts OPERATING RESULT EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS which will not reverse in the future and prior referred to in last years report have been The net costs anticipated to termination of the Figures before exceptional items and after absorbing all central costs: year releases.
In the absence of new tax or settled in cash.
The carrying value of goodwill current Thames Trains franchise contract have accounting legislation, a rate of tax below is referred to in Goodwill above.
been fully provided on the basis of the onerous the standard rate can be anticipated for the contract provisions of FRS 12.
Because these Treasury policy and borrowing facilities are 2003 2002 current year.
costs are unavoidable, FRS 12 requires that detailed fully in note 23 to the accounts.
The Operating Operating they are charged to the profit and loss account DIVIDENDS group has sufficient balance sheet and debt when recognised.
Had the franchise been Turnover Profit Margin Turnover Profit Margin The chairman noted in the interim report capacity to cover all envisaged requirements, extended, as anticipated at the end of 2002 m m % m m % that the board would continue to pursue a including the acquisition of the Wilts and providing an opportunity for the franchise to progressive dividend policy with a view to Dorset Bus Company on 11 August 2003, deliver a net profit over the remaining period, Bus reducing cover levels.
In 1999 dividends were additional known bonding requirements for then this provision would not have been covered 4.3 times by adjusted earnings.
This South Central and those needed subject to the Regulated 181 26.5 14.6 150 17.7 11.8 required.
However, the SRA has decided to ratio reduced progressively to 3.5 times in outcome of negotiations for new or extended Deregulated North 66 7.5 11.4 61 7.1 11.6 hold a competition between the group and 2002.
The proposed dividend for this year takes franchises in respect of Thames Trains and FirstGroup for a new two-year franchise.
The Deregulated South 64 9.9 15.5 59 8.5 14.4 the ratio down to 3.2 times.
Existing bonding commitments are outcome has not been determined and hence, 311 43.9 14.1 270 33.3 12.3 intention is to continue to reduce the dividend set out in note 25 to the accounts and these at this year end, an exceptional provision of cover going forward and increase the yield should be added to debt when considering 6.1million is required.
Rail 561 25.0 4.5 509 17.4 3.4 on the groups shares over the medium term.
Aviation Services 230 1.3 0.6 170 4.7 2.8 Within the aviation division, continued CASH FLOW PENSIONS restructuring has incurred further costs in the 1,102 70.2 949 55.4 Cash flow from trading activities amounted As noted last year, the group is accounting year, together with a settlement of employee to 95 million 2002 93 million.
The figure for pensions in its primary financial statements Goodwill charges 23.1 1.3 claims for compensation in respect of changes in 2002 was supported by a significant increase under SSAP 24.
Full disclosure under FRS 17 in working conditions, resulting in exceptional 1,102 47.1 949 54.1 in rail creditors.
Whilst this was partially is additionally provided as required under the costs of 3.8 million.
reversed, working capital movements have standard in note 24.
The disposal of the principal operating premises again generated additional cash.
This feature A new triennial actuarial valuation will be Includes share of joint ventures of Oxford Bus has led to an exceptional profit reflects the nature of the groups activities presented to the trustees of the group pension of 3million.
The on-going relocation project generally where, in contrast to many others, scheme in the Autumn establishing the funding Comparatives have been altered to reflect a split of Metrobus figures between regulated and deregulated business, previously all included in regulated for Oxford will give rise to the recognition of volume growth tends to generate additional of the scheme for contribution purposes as a further similar profit in due course.
cash through the expansion of creditors.
This valuation is likely to show group does not carry material values of stocks, RAIL BUS The first two items described above are a deficit.
However, because the pension and debtor levels are relatively small.
South Centrals new franchise terms became The growth in both scale and margin of the charged within the operating costs of the assumptions used by the groups actuary for this franchise terms operating for a full year and effective on 25 May 2003, providing an London regulated business is the major factor group, whilst the profit on disposal of property Net capital expenditure at 25million 2002 purpose are materially different to those used Thames Trains losses neutralised, further immediate boost to profitability in the final in the profit growth of the division.
The demand is credited below the operating profit line.
19million was reduced by the proceeds of in FRS 17, the deficit will be significantly less progress for the rail division as a whole can weeks of the year.
Having established a revised for additional services to cater for congestion sale of the Oxford property for 5.8million.
In anticipation of be expected in the current year.
GOODWILL performance regime with the SRA effective charging continued in the year.
The increases Over half of the gross expenditure was in the outcome, the group has already established The group has, for some years, adopted the from the start of the year, South Central was in labour and vehicle costs were exceeded AVIATION SERVICES respect of bus purchases.
In addition, 40 increases to both employer and employee policy set out on page 29 of the accounts in already operating profitably before this date.
by the financial rewards for operating a high Meteor Parking, purchased in May 2002, million 2002 24million in capital value contributions to address the deficit over a respect of goodwill.
Where goodwill is not These developments have provided the quality service, recognised under the TfL provided the turnover growth in the year.
of buses was financed by operating leases.
The period estimated at ten years assuming, interamortised under the policy, FRS 10 requires divisions profit growth in the year.
Turnover Quality Incentive Contract regime.
Hence the Indeed, the core aviation business suffered bus fleet average age is now 4.9 years 2002 alia, no material recovery in equity markets.
that each year an impairment review is growth is due to South Central accounting margin pressure predicted last year did not a modest decline in activity.
Meteor also 5.3 years excluding the heritage fleet of The directors believe that the group has performed.
The review in respect of aviation for a full year compared with ten months materialise.
Continued volume growth can be contributed 2million to the divisions Routemaster buses operated on behalf of TfL.
no rights or obligations in respect of the rail services has led to an impairment charge of in 2002 and the change in subsidy level.
anticipated in the current year when recent operating profit.
The core ground handling pension schemes following the expiry of the 20million as set out in note 11 to the BALANCE SHEET contract gains come into operation.
However, business suffered a modest loss in the year.
Throughout the division, volume growth was franchises.
Therefore, the pension scheme accounts.
The basis of the calculation is With no significant corporate activity, the net employment costs have already increased at modest, averaging 1% on the previous year.
In its first year, Meteor has integrated well characteristics here are closer in nature to a explained in the note and is a prudent cash generated has been applied in reducing a rate well ahead of price inflation early in the Unreliability through poor infrastructure into the group.
Further expansion can be defined contribution scheme than a defined reflection of todays market conditions.
Net debt at 28 June 2003 current year and this is expected to reduce performance was the major factor in restricting anticipated as it develops relationships with the benefit scheme.
Discussions to establish future carrying value will be re-examined again at the stood at 62 million compared to 96 million the margin percentage.
The railway performance regime, groups train operating companies to manage contribution levels based on the last formal end of the current year.
If the market improves, at the end of last year.
Excluding restricted however, provides operator compensation to After a strong first half performance in the their car parking operations.
Some material valuation for the rail pension scheme as at however, it is possible that the terms of FRS 11 cash deposits within the rail division, respective mitigate the financial consequences.
Thameslink, deregulated North business, the momentum developments are anticipated in the current December 2001 are close to being concluded.
could be interpreted in such a way as to figures are 96 million and 112million.
This therefore, maintained the profit level of last was not maintained in the second half.
Cost year, contributing to profit growth.
reverse the impairment charge in due course.
provides a gearing reduction from 79% to 69%.
Changes in pension costs of the respective year, notwithstanding the payment of increased increases, particularly pay, in a market suffering Interest is covered 15 times by operating profit Restructuring activity continued in the core Goodwill arising on the acquisition of the South schemes have been considered and reflected premium to the SRA.
Whilst the same factor continued volume pressure from demographics before exceptional items and goodwill, ground handling business throughout the year Central franchise is being amortised for it to be in the comments made earlier in this review partly compensated Thames Trains drop in and local authority policies, were difficult to compared with 9 times in the previous year.
with particular emphasis on Gatwick.
This written off by the end of the new franchise in on prospects for the current year.
subsidy, a modest loss was recorded for the absorb and this impacted the second half.
It is this balance sheet strength which provides station has suffered most from difficult industry December 2009. first time.
Margins in the current year are expected to the capacity to develop the dividend policy factors, including the Iraq war and the SARS improve as modest market share gains increase TAXATION described above.
Thames Trains subsidy fell by 4 million to virus outbreak in the Far East.
Competition revenue and absorb overheads.
The tax rate on profit before goodwill zero in April this year and, with no sign of pressure has also reduced volume at Gatwick Other than goodwill, the only material intangible amortisation and impairment for the year is Metrobus deregulated operations, mainly in significant volume growth returning, heavier and, whilst the station has been materially asset now being carried in the balance sheet 27.5% 2002 29.3%.
The reduction below the Crawley Gatwick areas, are now included losses can be anticipated up to the end of the downsized, the passenger handling activity is the post preferred bidder bid costs for the the standard rate of 30% is due to the in the deregulated South figures, along with current franchise on 31 March 2004.
In the is still loss-making.
This was mitigated by a South Central franchise amounting to under Oxford and Brighton.
Progress by Metrobus in absence of firm evidence that we will operate profitable cargo business.
Elsewhere, the this area has been strong, with a 15% increase the franchise beyond this date, the unavoidable business has made significant progress with in turnover and improved profit.
Volume and costs of fulfilling the obligations of the franchise regional stations benefiting from the growth profit growth continues in the other markets for the current year have been provided in low cost airline volumes.
The recent acquisition of the Wilts and see Exceptional Items below.
The market is now showing signs of stability Dorset Bus Company will further enhance The Thameslink franchise will be heavily and, including the contribution from the airport growth opportunities.
disrupted this year by CTRL infrastructure car parks, profitability should improve.
works and, in the absence of an adequate The consequences of the weak trading compensation arrangement within the existing performance in the year are considered further franchise agreement, profitability will suffer.
Nevertheless, with the new South Central 6 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 7
