CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Results Finance It is a source of much satisfaction to me to be able to We pursued our policy of balancing our strong cash flow report another year of strong growth for the year ended 4 and the sums raised from the sale of non-strategic assets May 2003, sustaining our consistent progress of recent years.
with a programme of selective investment in all areas of the All three businesses participated fully in the achievement of business and a share buy-back programme.
The buying-in these record results.
Compared with the prior 53 week year, and cancellation of our own equity benefits shareholder turnover advanced by 8 per cent to 535.6 million and profit returns and we believe that it is a sensible ingredient of our before tax, goodwill and exceptional items by 8 per cent to financial management.
The companys healthy trading performance generated an 11 per cent increase in adjusted earnings per The strength of our free cash flow enabled the 63.4 million share to 71.1 pence.
acquisition of Morrells and the 19.9 million of share purchases to be funded with only a minor increase in our These record results are derived largely from a very good debt to equity ratio, which rose from 86 to 96 per cent by performance from the core business, but benefited from a the year end.
With interest payable covered a healthy 3.7 46 week trading contribution from the Morrells business times, our debt level is close to our long-term template for a acquired in June 2002.
Our continued strong progress is balance sheet which optimises returns for investors, but still evidence that our strategy is sound, our people and assets leaves significant additional funding capacity should any of high quality and our financial structure prudent.
With suitable acquisition opportunities arise.
significant headroom for further growth within our current business model, we are confident that the result of these Investment strengths will be the continued generation of attractive We maintained our policy of investing to improve the returns for our investors.
quality and consumer appeal of our core pub assets with capital expenditure of 61.0 million, a level similar to that Dividend of the year before.
13.8 million was invested in improving The board is recommending a final net dividend of 21.3 the Old English Inns properties acquired in 2001 in order to pence per share, which gives a 10 per cent rise in the total restore them to the standards expected by their discerning net dividend for the year to 29.9 pence per share.
Returns from this investment in Old English dividend, if approved, is due to be paid on 5 September 2003 have been particularly good and give us further confidence to those shareholders on the register at the close of business to continue our development programme for the business.
Asset disposals Our strategy of selling those assets which do not meet our commercial criteria continued during the year, achieving total proceeds of 32.5 million and a profit on book value of 3.1 million.
Those assets disposed comprised primarily leasehold pubs, acquired as part of larger acquisitions in previous years, and marginal tenanted pubs unable to provide a licensee with a good income, with 94 properties being sold in total.
Acquisition of Morrells The acquisition of Morrells was completed in June 2002.
Morrells had 107 mostly freehold managed and tenanted pubs located within a thirty mile radius of the city of Oxford.
We are operating 18 of them in Pub Company, 77 in Pub Partners and have almost completed the disposal of 12 non-core properties.
The integration was carried out successfully within four months and the properties have Food is now a record 33 per cent of further strengthened our presence in the attractive managed pub sales Thames Valley trading area.
5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Pub Company Pub Partners The differentiation achieved by our managed house The principles of the commercial strategy adopted by our division in terms of the quality of its people, properties tenanted and leased pub division are similar to those pursued and consumer offer enabled the business to produce a in our managed estate, and Pub Partners also recorded strong robust financial performance at a time when the trading profit growth.
The success of our commitment to improve environment was considered to be difficult.
Our freehold the quality of our estate, recruit the best licensees and provide property tenure, well-presented outlets and emphasis on delegated management achieves success by doing all the little things right.
This makes a real difference to customers and prevents them feeling that they are the victims of imprecise, centrally directed decisions.
Our approach requires greater patience and attention to detail, but undoubtedly bears fruit over a sustained period and helps to protect us from the price discounting which has become prevalent in some markets.
Its merits have become increasingly recognised in the pub industry, to such an extent that Pub Company recently became the only managed pub business to be awarded the Publican newspapers Managed Pub Company of the Year for the second year running.
6 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2002 2003 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT them with innovative support was also recognised by us winning the Tenanted Pub Company of the Year in the 2003 Publican awards for an unprecedented third consecutive year.
Pub Partners was the main beneficiary from the purchase of Morrells, which added 77 properties to the estate, while a further 30 pubs were transferred from management.
At the tail end, 37 non-core sites were sold in a package and another 22 were sold individually or in small groups.
Brewing Company Our beer business registered a very strong performance on the back of the continued success of its principal traditional beer brands - Greene King IPA, Abbot Ale, Old Speckled Hen and Ruddles producing record results in terms of profit, volume and market share.
Abbot Ales brand presentation was refreshed at the start of the year and achieved particular success, while IPAs brand image was updated just before the year end and should produce added impetus this year.
Initiatives to improve efficiency and service levels complemented our brands growth and raised margins and return on capital to record levels.
This is a major achievement in the current, highly price-competitive environment and is a testament to the quality and positioning of the business.
People Our people are our fundamental source of competitive advantage.
Working in a service business, they deliver our differentiated strategy to our customers every day of the year with enthusiasm and passion.
It is their spirit that sustains our progress and ensures that we can overcome any challenges Sales of Abbot Ale rose a that may arise in the future.
I would like to convey my sincere thanks to each and every one of them.
fantastic 21 per cent David McCall Chairman 2 July 2003 7
