Chairmans statement The 2003 results demonstrate the Groups ability to continue to deliver strong financial performance Jeff Harris, Chairman 4 Alliance UniChem Plc Our results have been achieved through organic sales growth, an ongoing focus on margin management and cost control and increasing contributions from associates Overview and financial results Gross margins improved in each division, The 2003 results demonstrate the Groups in part due to an increase in generic ability to continue to deliver strong financial penetration in certain markets.
Total performance in what has been a year of operating profit before amortisation comparatively low acquisition activity.
of intangible assets increased by 15.8% This has been achieved through organic to 263.4 million 1380.1 million on a sales growth, an ongoing focus on margin comparable basis, the 2002 figures having management and cost control and increasing been restated for FRS 17, the accounting contributions from associates.
In our standard on retirement benefits, which wholesale division, businesses in Northern the Group has chosen to adopt early in full.
Europe continued to perform strongly.
Profit before taxation and amortisation of Southern Europe remained more challenging, intangible assets increased by 16.3% to with government action to reduce drug 209.9 million 1302.9 million.
Diluted expenditure impacting trading performance, earnings per share before amortisation of most notably in France, although in Italy intangible assets increased by 11.7% to our underlying performance improved.
Our 41.2 pence per share 59.5 cents.
Currency retail division delivered strong organic profit translation benefits from the stronger Euro growth, acquisition expansion being relatively were largely offset by its negative impact slow, as potential vendors awaited the on margins on certain UK product segments.
outcome of various regulatory reviews.
Net cash inflow from operating activities Group turnover was 8,799.3 million was particularly strong at 322.3 million 112,697.4 million, a year on year increase 1465.1 million, a year on year increase of 13.2% on a comparable basis, the 2002 of 121.7 million.
Working capital reduced figures having been restated for a change over the course of the year by 68.6 million in accounting policy resulting from the 197.3 million in cash terms, with stock, amendment in December to the accounting debtor and creditor days all improving.
The principal impact of this Reductions were achieved in all wholesale is that all customer discounts are now offset businesses, reflecting the success of against turnover, rather than forming part our programme to improve working of cost of sales.
On the previous accounting capital efficiency.
basis, Group turnover in 2003 would have been 9,111.7 million 113,148.2 million.
Alliance UniChem Plc 5 Chairmans statement continued Since the beginning of 2004 business performance has been in line with our expectations Dividend In the second half of the year we further The Board is recommending a final dividend strengthened the Board through the of 11.0 pence per share, making a total appointment of two new independent dividend for the year of 16.7 pence per share non-executive Directors, Adrian Loader and 24.1 cents.
The proposed final dividend is Manfred Stach, senior executives with Shell 8.9% higher than the 2002 final dividend, and Unilever respectively.
Both Directors bring the total dividend for the year being up to the Board extensive multinational skills 9.2%.
The proposed final dividend will be in European consumer markets.
Claude paid on 11 May 2004 to shareholders on the Berretti will retire as a non-executive Director register at the close of business on 5 March at the conclusion of the Annual General 2004.
The Board will, as in previous years, Meeting in April.
I would like to thank Claude offer shareholders a share alternative.
for his services over many years in both an executive and non-executive capacity.
Board and organisational changes Group development In April 2003, I retired as a full-time In our retail division we acquired 61 executive, continuing as Chairman in pharmacies and opened a further ten a non-executive capacity.
during 2003, of which ten in total were in associate businesses.
This brought our Steve Duncan, Managing Director of our retail portfolio to 1,092 pharmacies at retail division, was appointed to the Board the year end, including 101 operated by as Retail Director in January 2003 and in associate businesses.
September Per Utnegaard joined the Group and Board as Wholesale Director, responsible In June, the Group reduced its direct for all our wholesale businesses.
Coinciding investment in Alloga, our prewholesaling with Pers appointment, Ornella Barra, associate, from 50% to 20%, the shares previously the Director responsible for being sold to our partner, Galenica, which Southern Europe wholesale, became is in turn 25.5% owned by us.
Galenica has Group Services Director.
Chris Etherington, managed Alloga since its inception and the the Director formerly responsible for Northern revised ownership structure more closely Europe wholesale, left the Board and Group reflects the preference of manufacturer in March 2003 to take up a senior position clients to use prewholesalers who are in another business sector.
independent of the wholesale sector.
6 Alliance UniChem Plc Early in the second half of 2003, Hedef Outlook Alliance, our Turkish associate, acquired Our 2003 financial performance has once 40% of UCP, the joint market leader in again demonstrated the strength of the the Egyptian pharmaceutical wholesaling Group.
Despite the background of market market, and has a three year option over growth rates at the lower end of the range we an additional 11% of the equity.
This have seen in recent years and comparatively investment is a first step in our strategy low acquisition activity, we have delivered to use Hedef Alliance as a platform for strong earnings per share growth and growth in similar markets.
significantly increased the generation of cash from operating activities.
As ever, On 28 January 2004, the Group completed our markets are subject to commercial the purchase of 19% of the equity of and regulatory pressures, which remain Andreae-Noris Zahn ANZAG, the manageable.
Our track record of consistent third largest pharmaceutical wholesaler success since the Company floated on the in Germany, at a cost before expenses of London Stock Exchange in 1990 clearly 41.7 million 160.5 million, taking our shows our ability to meet such challenges shareholding to 29.99%.
We intend to year after year.
account for ANZAG as an associate from that date.
This transaction represents a We continue to seek opportunities to expand significant step forward for the Group the Group, both in countries in which we in Germany, the largest single operate and beyond, and to drive enhanced pharmaceutical market in Europe.
financial performance from our core businesses.
Following the review last year People of the system of awarding new pharmacy I continue to be impressed by the dedication contracts in the UK, we expect more of the people who work in our businesses, opportunities to add to our pharmacy providing customers and patients with chain in 2004.
Since the beginning of consistently high levels of service, while at 2004, business performance has been in the same time increasing productivity and line with our expectations, and we remain the financial performance of our Group.
confident of continuing our strong I take this opportunity to thank them, on financial track record.
behalf of shareholders, for their continued success, innovation and hard work.
Jeff Harris Chairman 24 February 2004 We remain confident of being able to continue our strong financial record Alliance UniChem Plc 7
