Chairmans statement We have produced strong results again As such, we are the first company to include this year.
Continued earnings growth, responsible drinking messages in all of our accelerated core brand performance and new brand advertising.
Most recently, we increasingly strong cash generation have established an independent third party panel been achieved despite difficult trading to review our marketing material and advise conditions and slowing economies.
on compliance against our marketing code.
We have had to absorb two non-trading Our Quick Service Restaurants business impacts: increased pension and foreign has again delivered good profit growth exchange costs.
Reported earnings per with Dunkin Donuts outpacing the industry.
share are up 3%, but excluding these two Encouragingly this has come from both non-trading items, shows growth of 20%.
new store openings and growth in likeOver the past four years, our brands for-like sales.
This business shows good have been revitalised through increased growth prospects for the future.
marketing investment, targeted acquisitions I would like to acknowledge the in growing categories and innovation.
This contributions made by our Non-Executive investment is now delivering with eight of Directors.
In particular, David Malpas who our nine core brands recording net turnover retired from the Board in October and growth.
New products are strengthening Peter Jacobs and Sir Ross Buckland the portfolio with encouraging results.
who will retire at the conclusion of the AGM Tia Lusso was launched last year and has in January.
I want to thank them for their already established itself as the number role in the success of Allied Domecq over two cream liqueur in the UK.
The Board has benefited has seen new brand extensions for both from their wisdom, guidance and Kahla and Beefeater.
I am delighted to welcome Our acquisitions of Malibu and the three new Non-Executive Directors: Bruno distribution rights for Stolichnaya have Angelici of AstraZeneca, Paul Adams of given us access to the fast-growing British American Tobacco and John Rishton categories of rum and vodka.
This year of British Airways.
I look forward to working both Malibu and Stolichnaya have grown with them in the coming years.
share in their key markets.
We are also These strong results are a testament to the benefiting from an increased exposure leadership of Philip Bowman and the hard to premium wine which is growing far work and dedication of his management faster than spirits and beer in many mature team and staff, and I thank them for their markets.
Our expansion into wine over contribution over the past year.
the past three years is enhancing the growth profile of the business.
At Allied Domecq we are proud of our brands and encourage people to enjoy them responsibly.
The consumption of alcohol has a long history and its association with relaxation, enjoyment and sociability Gerry Robinson is at the heart of our business.
