chairmans statement It gives me great pleasure to report on trading for the Group for Goodmans Goodmans also traded very well.
Last year we the year ended 31 March 2003.
During the year our business has reported its sales were approaching 70m.
In the year to 31 March advanced in all major product areas, achieving sales well in excess 2003 sales exceeded 90m.
In addition to traditional and new of 500 million and record profits.
innovative products launched last year, Goodmans has emerged during the past six months as the pioneer and market leader of digital radio DAB.
Sales of this product, which represents the future of broadcasting, have proceeded well.
Another product Financial Results which has been developed and marketed with great success has been Free-to-Air Digital Set Top Boxes, which allow viewers to Alba plc Continuing operations obtain reception of a number of BBC, ITV and other channels, Turnover for the year was 525.9m 2002: 434.0m.
Profit before which are not available on an analogue TV, without charge.
These profits are stated after charging amortisation Alba Radio Alba Radio has also achieved record sales across a of goodwill of 0.9m 2002: 0.7m.
wide range of home audio and portable stereo, karaoke, TV, VCR and DVD products.
Albas reputation for affordable highly specified Discontinued operations electronic products continues to grow.
In addition to the sale of the Dreamland electric blankets division reported at the half year, we have sold the remainder of the Bush Roadstar UK and Ministry of Sound I am pleased to Internet activities during the year.
These divisions had a combined report that both Roadstar and Ministry of Sound have shown turnover in the year of 2.1m 2002: 6.1m and profit before tax good results.
Sales in Roadstar UK are now approximately three of 0.3m 2002: 17.3m loss.
The profit on sale of these times what they were at the time of acquisition of its continental operations was 2.6m.
parent and Ministry of Sound, in its first year, is already established as a high performance brand, especially in digital and personal Alba plc whole Group audio products.
Telecoms Shareholders funds Sales in telecoms did not produce the major increases accomplished Shareholders funds increased by 32% during the year to 75.9m in consumer electronics.
Year-end borrowings were 42.7m as compared to achieved across our Betacom, Answercall, Cable and Wireless and 43.1m last year, with cash flow from operating activities funding NTL brands.
Given patient building and strengthening we believe that the substantial increases in business and the construction to 31 this business will become a major player.
March 2003 of a major new UK distribution facility at Cortonwood, near Sheffield.
Appliances Dividend This is our second biggest product area and total sales within this The Board has recommended an increased final dividend of 7.75p category were in excess of 135m.
One cannot make direct 2002: 7.1p making a total dividend for the year of 9.80p per share comparisons with the previous year as the acquisition of Pulse 2002: 9.0p per share which will be paid on 20 October 2003 to Home Products only took place with effect from 1 October 2001. shareholders on the register at 26 September 2003.
Pulse Home Products We have successfully absorbed Review of Activities Pulse into the Group.
The Breville, Bush Domestic, Nicky Clarke and Viva brands achieved sales of approximately 45m and, with a Consumer Electronics UK number of new products now being introduced, we can look forward to further increases during the current year.
The Antony All of our companies in the Consumer Electronics field achieved Worrall-Thompson range of food preparation appliances has record sales.
Alba, Bush and Goodmans brands are well represented achieved wide recognition and acceptance with its premium in every high street and shopping centre in the country.
The large Pulse premises in Middleton, Manchester, have gradually taken on Group Bush Radio plc I was proud to announce last year that Bush responsibilities, especially the servicing of many Group products had become the leading UK brand in volume terms for colour TV.
under factory conditions in what had previously been the This achievement has not only been sustained, but improved upon Dreamland electric blanket factory.
with annual sales across all products approaching 150m.
Aside from the traditional types of CTV, which continue to sell well, the Hinari and Dirt Devil Hinari was one of the big success business has expanded into a highly successful range of flat screen stories of the year.
Its sales at 28m were a record for this and LCD televisions and a number of TV DVD and DVD VCR division.
It is a market leader by volume in sales of microwave combinations.
High volume sales of DVD players were achieved ovens, but also sells large quantities of kettles, toasters and other throughout the winter season and the product has shown record appliances.
Dirt Devil floor care also did extremely well, increasing beating growth both for us and the Industry.
sales to over 10m in the year.
3 chairmans statement Power Products Power products, incorporating Power Devil Disposals and JCB Power Products, is now an important category for the Group, with sales approaching 30m.
We have built on our close As the sale of the Dreamland electric blankets division was relationship with JCB and continue to look to maximise the announced in June, I was able to report on this to shareholders in opportunities that exist.
In January 2003 we also disposed of the last elements of Bush Internet for approximately 1.5 million.
Carl Lewis Fitness Our latest operation is Carl Lewis Fitness.
Products, which include treadmills, exercise bicycles, rowing machines Special Business and other fitness equipment suitable for home use, are endorsed by the famous Olympic athlete, Carl Lewis.
Locally our consultant is You will see from the Notice convening the 2003 Annual General the well-known British athlete and TV presenter, Roger Black.
This Meeting of the Company which appears on pages 38 and 39 that category of products should enjoy growing demand as the public we are again proposing to shareholders the adoption of resolutions becomes more health and fitness aware.
Products will shortly appear giving the Directors authority to allot shares, disapplying the in the shops.
statutory pre-emption rights in relation to the allotment of certain of those shares and renewing the authority of the Company to purchase its own shares within the limits as to number of shares International and price.
Roadstar Europe I was very pleased to report on Roadstars Conclusion and Looking Forward progress last year and am happy to state that during the past year it has continued to develop well.
Sales in Italy and Germany have In my Interim Statement I said that we were confident that the progressed and Spain is growing into a major market.
Most significant good business already experienced would continue through the of all, sales in Eastern Europe have developed strongly.
We believe Christmas period and beyond.
I am now pleased to report that that there will be significant capacity for further sales growth in the this projection was fulfilled and we traded well through most of next few years.
the final quarter, with the exception of the short period of the Iraq War.
Since the end of the conflict trading has resumed at its Harvard Maritime, Hong Kong A number of political previous high levels and sales in the early weeks of the current and health factors the SARS virus have not made trading financial year have been above the same period last year.
conditions easy for Harvard Maritime in recent months.
Despite this adversity it has still produced a satisfactory performance under Our Group contains some extremely successful and innovative difficult conditions.
companies, managed by a highly motivated team who should be congratulated on their past and current achievements.
We are able to introduce a constant flow of new products which have broadDistribution Facility at Cortonwood based consumer appeal and our markets are constantly increasing, both in the UK and Europe.
We look to the future with confidence.
We are currently building a warehouse at Cortonwood, which is an Enterprise Zone some twelve miles north of Sheffield and close to the motorway network.
Geographically this fits very well into our John E Harris MBE national network, being approximately half way between our other Chairman distribution facilities at Rugby and Tyneside.
This will be our largest 7 July 2003 distribution centre to date, is high rise and will be capable of storage of approximately 27,000 pallets.
Construction will be complete and the site become operational by the beginning of August.
The cost of the development will be approximately 8m.
