com Chairmans statement Eric Nicoli Business achievements 2002 03 HMV UK 21 new stores opened, including 150th milestone store at Truro HMV.
co. uk launches online digital music downloads in partnership with OD2.
Music Week Retailer of the Year award for the fifth successive year.
Waterstones Refurbishment of nine stores, representing 10% of sales.
10 million stock renewal programme successfully completed.
Growth in DVD Video category, helped by DVD, delivers 41% of UK sales, Christmas 2002.
British Video Association Retail Success of the year 2002 specialist retail category.
Strong maiden interim results Group operating profits increased 32.8% to 17.3 million.
Maiden Interim dividend of 1.1p per share Record Christmas trading 8.5% Group sales growth, including 4.6% LFL growth.
5.6% LFL growth in both Waterstones and HMV Europe.
North America Increased Canadian market share to 24.4%.
Canadian Music Industry Awards Retail Chain of the Year 2002 for the 15th successive year.
Asia Pacific Four new store openings in Japan.
Market share growth in Japan: Music 0.3% to 6.9%, DVD 1.2% to 5.1%.
Ayear of achiev HMV Group plc 19 19 www.
com Our first year as a listed company on Our HMV businesses in North America the London Stock Exchange has seen and Asia Pacific have responded HMV Group make appreciable progress, resolutely to the weakness seen in their both in meeting the strategic objectives regional music markets.
These businesses for growth laid out at the Initial Public have in several areas strongly outperformed Offering and delivering an excellent their local market and leveraged their set of financial results.
The Group competitive positions to advance supply financial performance was strong chain relationships and increase market during the period.
Sales were up 3.2% to share of DVD.
This gives us confidence 1,707.7 million, operating profit increased for our prospects for growth in our by 12.1% to 118.4 million and our net chosen international markets.
debt was reduced by 241.8 million The Group possesses outstanding 95.0 million on a pro forma basis.
operational capabilities and has a capital structure apposite for realising the All HMV and Waterstones people are considerable potential for further to be congratulated for this excellent expansion.
Sales and profit growth business performance, which was remain our strong focus as we aim to set against the backcloth of an ever maximise on behalf of our shareholders more competitive retail environment, the opportunities to progress further.
a decline in the worldwide music market Our balance sheet, which shows strong and macro-economic conditions free cash flow generation and net debt which, as the year unfolded, weakened falling ahead of expectations, gives the consumer confidence.
Board confidence to reinforce the We have much more to do, progressive dividend policy laid out however, before the full potential of the at the IPO.
At the IPO we stated as two main priorities for strategic growth the execution of a new store opening programme for HMV in the UK and the Eric Nicoli Chairman turnaround of the Waterstones business, 30 June 2003 a programme which will continue over several years.
I am pleased to report excellent progress on both of these fronts.
At HMV, 21 new UK stores were opened, taking the total number at the year end to 158.
The outstanding performance of the new stores, and the extraordinary growth of our DVD sales, means that the Group can look forward with confidence to highly consistent and rapid returns from the further expansion of HMV UK during the new financial year.
At Waterstones, the refurbishment of nine of our largest stores was completed to schedule in readiness for the crucial academic and Christmas selling periods, whilst application of the best-in-class retail standards established in HMV helped our books chain to improve financial ratios in a market which was ostensibly flat.
