Holidaybreak at a glance Holidaybreak plc consists of three operating divisions.
Each division has very different product, operations and business models, but they do share some important common strengths.
Each is a market leader in its respective specialist sector of the holiday industry, has multi-channel distribution and is recognised for providing high standards of product and service quality.
Flexibility for the customer is a feature of the holidays offered and flexible cost structures a feature of the business models.
The businesses also enjoy Group better margins than most of the travel industry and strong cash generation.
All are resilient and well placed to benefit from current industry and consumer trends.
Together, they make a strong well-balanced business.
Turnover 259.5m Camping Division The original business of the Group founded in 1973.
Self catering mobile-homes and tents pre-sited on high 49% quality European camp-sites.
Customers, predominantly families, come from the UK, Holland, Germany and seven other European countries.
Sales are mainly direct, although high street travel agents account for approximately 15%.
As well as the main Eurocamp and Keycamp brands, the division also includes three smaller businesses: Eurocamp Independent, a camping reservations service, holiday village specialist Perfect Places and 128.4m Easycamp, launched in 2003 in Holland and Germany offering holidays in camp-site owned mobile homes.
Hotel Breaks Division The main business of the division is leisure hotel stays at hotels throughout the UK for the domestic market, although there is also a European programme.
A range of catalogue-style brochures are distributed through UK high street travel agents.
Direct bookings are also important, increasingly made over the internet.
Customers benefit from an extensive choice of some 1,500 3-5 star UK hotels and over 1,000 hotels in 38% European cities.
The division also includes Hotelnet, an internet portal for hotel bookings worldwide.
97.8m Adventure Holidays Division Explore Worldwide, the principle component of the division, is the UK market leader and largest European operator of worldwide adventure holidays.
It provides small group tours activity, culture, or wildlife based - to over 100 countries.
RegalDive is the UK market leader in scuba diving holidays, for everyone from beginners to experts, in the Red Sea, Maldives, Caribbean and Far East.
The businesses sell mainly direct 13% 33.3m but also through specialist and overseas agents.
Holidaybreak plc Hotel Breaks Division With shorter holidays in vogue and the renewed interest in the UK as a holiday choice, the Hotel Breaks Division once again prospered.
Its DIVIDEND outstanding year on year growth record continued.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of Our year Statement by Sales were up by 27% and margins again improved.
Our year 16.0p, payable on 21 April 2004, to shareholders on We were also helped by the ready availability of Robert Ayling, Chairman the register on 26 March 2004, making a total of good quality hotel accommodation at attractive 22.0p for the year.
All our main distribution channels high street agents, direct mail and internet delivered THE DIVISIONS strong year on year growth.
The acquisition for 2m Camping Division of Bridge Britain & Ireland and London Travel In common with most UK overseas summer holiday Service from MyTravel Group plc in March 2003 businesses, Camping faced very weak early markets gave travel agent and direct sales an additional which never achieved a sustained recovery.
UK boost in the second half.
In its second year, the bookings started slowly with families apparently European programme sold strongly through high unwilling to make early commitments to summer street travel agents, more than doubling its sales to holidays.
Demand in the key post-New Year period 9% of divisional turnover.
slowed further as the Iraq war loomed.
Post Easter we saw a strong recovery that allowed us to make Adventure Holidays Division up some of the lost ground.
Bookings from our two In difficult circumstances, Adventure Holidays main European markets, Holland and Germany, held produced a resilient performance although one up well, in the context of economic slowdown and which ultimately fell short of our original weaker consumer sentiment.
With like for like sales expectations.
Geopolitical events proved even more down 6% and capacity reduced by 4% there was an disruptive than in the period following September adverse impact on occupancy rates and gross 11th.
As well as the high profile impact of the Iraq Holidaybreak has once again demonstrated margins.
war and SARS, the business was held back by the resilience of its businesses with an overall robust performance, an increase in various terrorist incidents, regional conflicts and Operational improvements and exceptionally good headline profits and earnings per share, and destinations subject to adverse Foreign Office travel weather in northern and western France helped us a reduction in borrowings through the advice.
Areas not directly affected by these events, generation of 9m of net cash.
This is a achieve higher customer satisfaction levels than in such as Europe, South America and South Africa, satisfactory performance, given the difficult recent years.
The hot summer in the UK may have trading conditions encountered by UK performed well demonstrating again the continuing deterred some late bookings but was not overall a overseas holiday operators this year.
We appeal of soft adventure travel.
believe that the business is well placed for team worked hard to maintain tour load factors and the opportunities ahead.
The Camping Division management team had the gross margins at normal levels and to achieve a In the year to 30 September 2003, profits additional challenge of integrating the Eurosites creditable result in difficult circumstances.
before charging goodwill, exceptional items business following its acquisition for 29.9m in and tax, increased by 2.9% to 27.9m on turnover of 259.5m.
There were exceptional September 2002 from MyTravel Group plc.
This was CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS and other non-recurring costs of 3.7m completed successfully by the end of the year.
The It is too early in the 2004 campaign to form mainly relating to the Eurosites acquisition.
1.6m annual cost savings achieved were better anything but a preliminary view of prospects for our Headline earnings per share rose 4.5% to than our original estimate.
However, Eurosites three divisions although both our year round 44.4p and the proposed final dividend will result in an overall annual dividend of 22.0p bookings performance fell short of target, reflecting businesses, Hotel Breaks and Adventure, have made up 10%.
the general market weakness and holding back an encouraging start to 2004. overall profitability.
2 Hotel Breaks 2004 sales are currently 37% higher year on year.
Demand for UK short breaks continues to be strong and the supply side situation remains favourable.
We continue to benefit from additional distribution generated from the acquisition, referred to above, and we expect overseas holiday sales to be boosted by the recent launch of a new European Beach Breaks programme.
Revenues for 2004 Adventure Holiday sales to date are 8% up on 2003.
Bookings have come in strongly since the current marketing campaign was launched.
Whilst the geopolitical environment remains fragile, we are cautiously optimistic that this will be a better year for Adventure.
Assessing the performance of the Camping Division to date, in the context of a very weak early market for summer 2004 overseas holidays, is more difficult as we have recently implemented the second phase of our Eurosites post acquisition plan.
The Eurosites brand and capacity have now been fully integrated into Eurocamp and Keycamp and, due to the elimination of unprofitable camp-sites and surplus low value tent product, combined capacity for 2004 is expected to be 8% lower than in 2003.
Against BOARD CHANGES EMPLOYEES the background of a mainstream package holiday I joined the Board as a non-executive director on Since becoming Chairman of Holidaybreak I have market which is reported to be as much as 30% 1 February 2003 and succeeded Angus Crichtonbeen able to meet many of the companys down and unfavourable timing in comparing Miller as Chairman on 1 June 2003, following the employees both in the UK and overseas.
I have been marketing campaigns, our year on year Camping expiry of his second three year term.
Holidaybreak very impressed by the commitment, enthusiasm and sales for 2004 are showing a deficit of 20%.
We grew and prospered during Angus period as skill which they show in doing their various jobs.
expect post Christmas bookings to be much stronger Chairman, during which he demonstrated great skill They will be instrumental in the continuing success than in the equivalent war build up period.
and leadership of the highest quality.
We aspire to of the business.
I would like to thank all do as well in the years ahead.
Holidaybreak employees for their vital contributions STRATEGY in 2003.
The travel industry continues to undergo significant On 12th November 2003, we announced that Jim change as demand for travel products responds to Crew, who is Managing Director of our Camping IN CONCLUSION lifestyle changes, low-cost airlines and marketing Division, would be retiring from the business in 2003 has not been an easy year for the travel opportunities created by technology.
Travel 2004 once a suitable successor is appointed.
He industry or for Holidaybreak.
However, we have once consumers are more knowledgeable, want flexibility will then be available to ensure a smooth transition again increased our headline earnings per share and and more varied holiday experiences but demand and handover.
I thank Jim for his outstanding the dividend and look forward to further progress in value and quality products.
Holidaybreaks specialist contribution to Holidaybreak since he first joined 2004.
Supported by the strong cash generating holiday businesses are well placed to benefit from the company in 1989.
We wish him well for the characteristics of the Group, we believe that we are these trends and will do so through active future.
well placed to meet the challenges ahead and that development of products and distribution channels longer term prospects remain excellent.
and close attention to the cost base.
Steady organic growth is our primary aim and this will be supported with appropriate acquisitions at the right value.
