Chairmans statement Following two years of exceptional growth, I advised The last year was also a year of change in your Board.
you in my statement last year that our earnings At the end of November 2003, our Chief Executive would be lower in 2003, and in the range of 9p Officer CEO, David Crane, left the Board when he was 11p per share.
In the event, earnings per share at offered an exceptional US-style salary package, with which 10.2p before exceptional items was down 34% we could not and did not wish to compete.
We also said against 2002 and profit before interest and tax before goodbye to Peter Giller.
I would like to express my thanks exceptional items at 285 million was down 27%.
to David and to Peter for their contribution to the Company over the last few years.
When we knew that The details behind these headline figures are presented David was leaving, we set in train the process to find the and explained elsewhere in this Report, but in summary right replacement.
This involved the appointment of they show that our assets outside of the US and UK external search consultants, and an examination of both did well.
The extremely weak markets in Texas and New external as well as internal candidates.
At the end of this England, which in fact worsened as the year progressed, process, I was very pleased that Phil Cox accepted our meant that losses there offset some exceptional offer to become CEO.
Phil had been our Chief Financial performances elsewhere.
In the UK, although wholesale Officer since demerger and there is no-one who has a margins showed some temporary improvement in mid better overall understanding of our business, our markets 2003, this was short lived and therefore of limited benefit and our objectives.
Phils replacement is Mark Williamson, to our earnings for the year.
who had been the head of our finance function from As we look ahead, we can still see good progress demerger.
At the beginning of 2004, we also welcomed being made in many of our markets around the world.
two new operational Directors to the Board.
Steve Riley, Unfortunately, without some industry re-structuring in our who recently returned from Australia, is now the Executive US markets and in the UK, possibly accompanied by some Director responsible for our European activities, and Tony repositioning of our business and assets in these areas, Concannon, who until recently managed our UK assets, is we believe that the next few years could remain difficult.
now the Executive Director responsible for our business Importantly, we have well run and highly efficient assets in Australia.
Steve and Tony are both young men, but they in both the US and the UK, and as the current imbalance have been with the Company for some time and bring to between supply and demand reduces, we expect to be the Board their considerable experience in our industry.
among the first generators able to return our plants to profit.
I would also like to thank all the employees across the I would like to comment on two other issues that will Group for their continued efforts in 2003.
Wherever I go affect our decision making as we manage our existing in the Group I am always impressed by their enthusiastic US and UK assets, and consider how much support and professional approach to their work.
and investment, or otherwise, we should provide.
Good corporate governance remains at the forefront of In the US, because the visible medium-term outlook our minds, and last year I undertook to report on this for our markets remains weak, we are in discussions subject more fully.
In the event, the Financial Reporting with the bank group for our US business to restructure Council issued a revised Combined Code in July 2003. its non-recourse debt facility.
A successful conclusion to Although this Revised Code is not directly applicable to this exercise, in the interests of shareholders and all other us for the financial year just ended, we do report in our parties, is essential to ensure our on-going commitment corporate governance section, not only on our practice to these assets.
In the UK, a sensible carbon allocation during 2003, but also on the application of the Revised level which is compatible with that adopted by our Code, highlighting those limited areas where currently we European trading partners, is equally important to our may be at variance with its requirements.
investment decisions in this market.
Both of these issues As you will see from our CEOs statement, we continue to will become much clearer as the year progresses, and actively review growth opportunities in all our core regions.
we will keep you informed at the appropriate times.
We do, however, need to resolve some difficult issues this Our policy on distributions to shareholders has also year, particularly the restructuring of our US non-recourse developed during 2003.
We implemented a share debt facility, to ensure that we can return to the path of buyback programme in May, and to date have bought earnings growth and increased shareholder value.
back some 10.7 million shares at a cost of 13 million.
We also negotiated some additional flexibility in our corporate bank facility, enabling dividend distributions to commence in 2005.
We will review our dividend policy at Sir Neville Simms our 2004 year end, based on our cash flow performance Chairman and our business outlook.
