Chairmans statement Our 2003 results were broadly in resulting from the refocusing that line with expectations and reflect a has taken place over the last few satisfactory performance in our core years and reflecting generally activities, achieved in conjunction improving market conditions.
with the implementation of planned The public and privatised sectors management changes and the continued to provide the majority withdrawal from non-core businesses.
of our workload and in the year accounted for around two-thirds Headline profit from continuing of the total turnover.
operations amounted to 30.7 million 2002: 47.9 million which Improved working capital was, in particular, impacted by management and cash received from increased pension charges of 8.9 the disposal of assets in discontinued million 2002: nil and a provision businesses contributed to a reduced of 5.5 million in respect of the net debt at the year end amounting Liverpool City Council contract for to 22.5 million 2002: 42.8 million.
the repair and maintenance of Net interest payable of 3.2 million council houses.
was covered over 10 times by total operating profit before exceptional Following a review of the activities items and goodwill amortisation of of the Group the decision was taken 32.1 million.
to withdraw from businesses that were unlikely to produce acceptable Dividend future returns, thus facilitating the The Directors are recommending a concentration of resources and effort final dividend of 9.3p 2002: 9.0p on our core activities going forward.
bringing the total dividend for the Exceptional charges for the closure year to 13.5p 2002: 13.0p, an of non-core, underperforming increase of 3.8 per cent.
Subject to businesses amounted to 24.9 million.
the approval of the shareholders at The restructuring has proceeded the Annual General Meeting the final largely to plan and is substantially dividend will be paid on 9 June 2004 complete.
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 19 March 2004.
After exceptional items and goodwill amortisation the Group People made a pre-tax loss of 2.9 million I am delighted once again to thank 2002: 37.2 million profit.
each and every one of our people for their hard work, dedication As announced in February of this and enthusiasm.
They also deserve year we transferred our contract particular thanks for their muchwith Liverpool City Council to a third valued support in a year in which party.
This action was necessary we have implemented significant due to reductions in the amount of change in order to strengthen our work available making the contract prospects for sustained growth.
The necessary closures resulted in the loss of approximately 500 jobs: I am Turnover from continuing grateful for the professionalism shown operations rose by 13 per cent to by those affected and wish them 1.17 billion 2002: 1.03 billion every success in their future careers.
8 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 Left to right University College London Hospitals NHS Trust Services provided by Interservefm include domestic cleaning, which incorporates the Trusts Infection Control Policy Alder High School Hattersley Completed in 2003 this 750-student secondary school is part of the Hattersley PFI schools project, together with 2 primary schools Dudley Group of Hospitals NHS Trust A range of non-clinical support services is being undertaken, with bed numbers doubling Headline profit from continuing operations The many talented people within Strategy and outlook comprises loss on ordinary activities before taxation the Group possess a wealth of In 2003 much has been done to of 2.9m 2002: profit of 37.2m adjusted for the professional and practical skills.
strengthen the Groups platform for impact of exceptional items of 22.2m 2002: 0.3m credit, goodwill amortisation of 9.6m 2002: 9.7m The Interserve Training Trust, under future growth.
Under our new Chief and the operating loss from discontinued operations the guidance of John Jutson, has Executive and Finance Director, a of 1.8m 2002: 1.3m.
done much to enhance this by review of the Groups activities has Exceptional items comprise loss on sale or encouraging self-improvement led to the closure of some small termination of operations of 24.9m 2002: 1.2m, through training and qualifications.
businesses and withdrawal from profit on sale of tangible fixed assets of 2.7m 2002: I would like, on behalf of the Board, contracts that were not able to 2.5m and exceptional operating charges of nil 2002: 1.0m.
to thank John, who retires from offer the potential for appropriate his position with Industrial Services returns.
The anticipated improvement this year, for his sterling work in the quality of the Groups earnings, in this regard.
combined with managements determination to drive growth in Board our continuing businesses, bodes There have been a number of well for the future.
planned changes to the Board during the course of the year, During 2003, the Group saw an most of which were reported at increase in the pace at which the Interim stage.
They included contracts are being won across the appointment of Adrian Ringrose the business.
The Groups future as Chief Executive on 1 July and workload, now at a record level of Tim Jones as Group Finance Director 4.3 billion, underpins our growth on 11 August.
Since then Stuart Lee potential and it is encouraging and Clive Groom have retired from to see that our established track the Board on 30 September and record of achieving client retention 31 December respectively.
rates in excess of 90 per cent for term contracts is continuing.
Stuart joined the Group in 1989 and until 11 August was Group Financial The markets in which the Group Director.
I would like, on behalf of undertakes its core activities the Board, to thank him for his continue to be attractive, with an most valuable contribution to the encouraging flow of opportunities progress of the Group during his for the short and long term in both tenure of office.
the public and private sectors.
Interserve is well placed to capitalise Clive Groom was formerly on the considerable potential Chief Executive of Building & available across the Groups Property, a facilities services continuing businesses.
business, which we acquired in 2000 and at which time he joined the Board.
Again, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him for his help and support in the successful integration of Building & Property into the Group and its Mike Bottjer Chairman subsequent development as part of 9 March 2004 our Facilities Services division.
