Chairmans statement Results summary and dividend Disposals Sustainable development Customers and suppliers Employees Board Outlook Chairmans statement On completion of these actions, your Board believes that Invensys will offer investors a In future, Invensys will be focusing on smaller Group possessing higher quality Production Management and Rail Systems.
growth prospects and leading competitive positions, financed by a stronger balance We will be disposing of all other businesses.
In seeking to create value for On completion of these actions, your Board shareholders, the priority will be to establish stability, to provide assurance for customers believes that Invensys will offer investors a and employees and to achieve margin smaller Group possessing higher quality improvement.
More information on the new structure of the Group going forward is growth prospects, financed by a stronger provided in the Chief Executives review.
Results summary and dividend Group sales were down 28% at 5,018 million Dear Shareholder, 2002 6,972 million, principally due to the At the time of our interim results in sale of non-core businesses that last year November, there were clear indications that contributed sales of 2,349 million.
Group our transformation programme was starting operating profit before exceptional items, to work in areas where management had goodwill amortisation and goodwill focused its resource.
Since then, our impairment fell by 40% to 330 million disposal of designated non-core businesses 2002 549 million.
Corporate and has been completed, banking covenants operating exceptional items, including have been consistently met and margin a write off of goodwill associated with Lord Marshall of Knightsbridge, Chairman improvement has been achieved in a disposals of 1,321 million and goodwill number of businesses, most notably in impairment of 585 million, have Production Management.
However, a resulted in the Group recording a loss of minority of under-performing businesses 1,442 million for the year 2002 loss of have reported disappointing results with 869 million.
The underlying earnings per trading conditions continuing to weaken.
share for continuing operations were 2.2p As a consequence, your Board recognises 2002 2.8p.
Free cash flow of 87 million the need to secure a greater level of was 179 million lower than the previous financial stability for the Group.
year, mainly due to a reduction in operating profit of 219 million.
Net debt at the year In April, we announced that we will be end was down to 1,556 million.
disposing of further businesses and focusing on Production Management.
We will also In the context of the Groups performance, continue to develop our Rail Systems the Board is recommending that no final business.
The remaining businesses in the dividend be paid.
Given the interim dividend Group will be divested, either partially or of 1.0p, this makes a total for the year of wholly, by seeking suitable equity partners 1.0p 2002 2.0p.
or new owners, as appropriate to the development needs of each business.
A structured and phased process to achieve this is already underway.
Proceeds raised from asset sales will be used to satisfy the cash requirements of the Group, including reduction of indebtedness and funding of pension schemes, as well as the investment required to grow market share in Production Management and Rail Systems and return the Group to overall profitability and earnings per share growth.
02 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Chairmans statement Results summary and dividend Disposals Sustainable development Customers and suppliers Employees Board Outlook Disposals Employees Subsequent events proved that to be We successfully completed the disposal I thank all our employees for their loyalty, unfounded, thereby causing a major programme announced in February 2002, professionalism and hard work in what has downturn in many of our markets at a time ahead of schedule and with proceeds been a particularly difficult year.
It is very when management was striving to deliver exceeding the target of 1.5 billion.
It was disappointing that, despite the best efforts synergies from the merger.
Mistakes have a significant achievement to have realised and commitment of our people, we have been made and lessons learned which will sale proceeds of 1.8 billion in total for not been able to continue with the full benefit future decisions.
strategy that we announced in February 2002.
I believe that the revised course of Martin Jay will take over as your Chairman On 15 April, we announced the creation action we have now set out will offer the following the AGM.
Martin has first-hand of a newly enlarged Development Division best prospects for the future of the Group.
experience of the demands of steering a for whose businesses we will seek new business through a period of significant owners or equity investors.
We expect this Board transition.
In Rick Haythornthwaite, Adrian transition process to take 18 to 24 months There have been a number of changes to Hennah and their colleagues I believe your and we are not, at this early stage, putting the Board in the past year.
We have seen Company has an extremely competent a precise target on disposal proceeds, the retirement of Bob Bauman, Kathleen executive management which, together with for two reasons.
Firstly, if we are able to ODonovan and Sir Graham Hearne, all of your Board, is fully prepared to face the manage liabilities down from their current whom contributed significantly to your challenges ahead.
level, we may opt to retain an equity stake Company in the case of Kathleen in some businesses to retain exposure to ODonovan, over twelve often challenging Outlook an eventual market rebound.
Secondly, the years as Finance Director of BTR, then At this moment, it remains difficult to sale of multiple businesses is complex and Invensys.
I thank them, as I do the predict the timing of a recovery in our involves numerous decisions regarding the continuing directors, and I wish them well.
The focus for the coming year will retention or inclusion of various liabilities remain the achievement of further progress on sale.
Adrian Hennah was recruited in October, in Invensys own productivity, in order to and became Chief Financial Officer on mitigate any factors outside our control.
Martin Jay and Jean-Claude The Production Management team last year We have made sound progress this year Guez joined the Board as non-executive delivered a margin improvement of over on our commitment to broaden social directors in January 2003, and Andrew two percentage points, excluding Baan, and responsibility and sustainability based on Macfarlane in March 2003.
Each of them expects to deliver further improvement in our statement of guiding principles, the will bring their different expertise and the coming year, whether or not trading Invensys Intent.
We participated in Business experience to the benefit of the Group.
At the same in the Communitys 1st Corporate time, the Group has a major disposal Responsibility Index and were pleased to be Sir Philip Beck, who has been a valued programme underway and a detailed placed towards the top of the third quintile colleague on the Board at Siebe and then process to actively manage the reduction of companies who took part.
We have also Invensys, will retire at this years AGM.
taken a number of further steps to Philip for his contribution over twelve years.
implement the principles of the United Nations Global Compact.
A full report on This year also marks the end of my fiveour progress in this area is contained in the year tenure.
As I look back on my time as Sustainable development section.
Chairman, initially of Siebe, then Invensys, I would not want the decline in our Customers and suppliers performance to overshadow totally the The performance initiatives focusing on positive achievements of management and Lord Marshall of Knightsbridge, Chairman Customer Development and Lean Supply employees of the Group during that period.
28 May 2003 Chain have produced real improvements When we created Invensys through the for many of our customers and suppliers.
merger of Siebe and BTR in 1999, it was We appreciate their support in the past and against a backdrop of almost a decade of give them our commitment to maintain and sustained world economic growth, and build our relationships as we go forward.
considerable optimism for it to continue.
03 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003
