Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 6:29 AM Page 26 Chairmans Statement An international group focused on project management and services There is still huge unrealised value in AMEC Jock Green-Armytage Chairman 26 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 6:29 AM Page 27 As I write this review, I have been in for AMEC.
Over the last decade, AMEC and blue-chip corporations.
The potential the post of AMEC chairman for a mere has been transformed from a largely UKis significant and I believe that our results two months, though I have been on the based traditional construction company to demonstrate that we are on track to deliver AMEC board since 1996.
I must therefore an international group focused on project against that potential.
start by thanking my predecessor, Sydney management and services, able to attract Gillibrand, who retired in January.
Sydney, and retain clients at the highest level, Growth in earnings was resumed last who became chairman of AMEC in 1997, from the US and UK government through year.
Pre-tax profits of 112.5 million helped steer the company through some the oil and gas majors to cities and are up seven per cent and were in line major changes, including the acquisitions communities worldwide.
Proposed dividends of AGRA and SPIE.
He will be much missed, for the year are increased by five per both personally and professionally.
We are still something of a well-kept cent to 10.5 pence per share, reflecting secret.
Few people recognise the scope our confidence in the future.
The outlook George Payne, Commercial Director, or scale of our enterprise from delivering for 2004 is still in line with our previous retired from the board in March 2003, and customised light rail solutions for clients expectations.
David Robson, responsible for UK and from Bordeaux to Caracas, to helping Asia Pacific operations, retired at the reconstruct the Pentagon after 9 11, The last few years have been difficult for end of July 2003 after 40 years service.
and creating some of the worlds largest many companies but, as signs of recovery I would like to thank both George and oil and gas facilities.
There is still huge emerge, I feel confident that AMECs highly David for the enormous contribution they unrealised value in this company in skilled and dedicated people will grasp have made to AMEC over the years, and the potential of its skills, experience and the opportunity to build on our strengths, I wish them well in their retirement.
Few companies in the world can do expand our service, deepen our client what we do and people are beginning to relationships and create value for all Another important change at AMEC see us as a real force to be reckoned with.
during the year was the appointment of Carlos Riva as executive director Two-thirds of profit from responsible for our Americas business Services and Investments and AMEC Group Limited in the UK.
We are also continuing to evolve towards Carlos brings outstanding commercial our goal of being a services company.
experience from his role as Chief Executive Last year, we moved even further forward Officer of Intergen, the Shell-Bechtel in terms of exiting businesses with poor power joint-venture, and his position Jock Green-Armytage quality earnings and investing in areas across the UK and the Americas Chairman where we can add real value.
As a result, will help us bring these businesses 11 March 2004 two-thirds of our total operating profit closer together.
is now generated from Services and Investments activities.
Project management and services His appointment, together with some We are, today, a financially robust, major other senior changes at the operating company, employing 45,000 people in over level, marks the end of a phase of 40 countries worldwide, with an enviable substantial change and restructuring client list and the trust of governments 5 Proposed dividends are increased by 5% to 10.5p per share 27 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003
