06 SECTION THREE PAGE SIX CHAIRMANS STATEMENT in the year ended 30 April 2003, we again delivered strong organic growth, an important and constant feature of our business 07 Another excellent financial year A winning strategy The year ended 30 April 2003 iSOFT Group plc was listed on the continued the track record of excellent London Stock Exchange in July 2000 performance by iSOFT Group plc.
with a clearly defined business strategy.
Our shareholders have come to Our consistent focus has been on expect strong strategic, operational the development of world class and financial performance from the software application systems, which business, and I am pleased to address fully the administrative and announce that we have delivered clinical information management against each of these expectations.
requirements of healthcare provider organisations.
Contained in this Annual Report is an impressive account of the strength of In modern healthcare economies the the iSOFT business evidenced by the rate of change in information system significant growth in sales, profits, cash requirements has been dramatic and generation and earnings per share.
Governments are responding to the needs of clinicians by investing It is particularly satisfying to report that to make information available at the the excellent financial performance was point of care through the deployment the result of successful sales activity of new software applications, and delivery across all the geographies broadband networks and mobile that we target with our innovative computing devices.
software applications for healthcare delivery organisations.
We have stuck to our strategy resolutely because of our confidence that it represents a close fit with developments in our markets and the requirements of our customers.
As healthcare looks to adopt best practice from other sectors of the economy, the move towards disseminating information through the Application Service Provider ASP model will become more apparent.
iSOFT is well positioned for this development as we target our expertise towards producing application content for the larger service organisations intending ASP offerings.
We look forward with enthusiasm and are confident that our strategy will continue to serve us well and deliver value for our shareholders and customers.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT SECTION THREE PAGE SEVEN 08 iSOFT - an integrated business In our last Annual Report I was able to Board development announce the acquisition of the In the year ended 30 April 2003, we As announced at the time of our interim healthcare systems business interests of again delivered strong organic growth, results last December, the next stage in Northgate Information Solutions plc.
I an important and constant feature of our the development of the successful am pleased to confirm that the process business.
Acquisitions have been iSOFT business will involve controlled of integration is now complete and the selective and shrewd.
geographic expansion and an increased combined skills of an enlarged focus on product strategy to open new workforce has ensured strong, markets.
The Board recognises that The primary rationale for acquisition successful trading in the acquired these challenges require a full-time in the iSOFT business model is to customer base.
During the year we also commitment from a member of the obtain direct access to an enlarged acquired Revive Group Limited, the Board and I am delighted to confirm that customer base for our compelling leading United Kingdom exponent of Patrick Cryne, iSOFTs current Chief software application suite.
Executive Officer, will take on the executive role of Director, Corporate The logic in this approach means that Acquisitions will continue to be a Development, to establish iSOFT as the we can integrate acquired businesses feature of our business model but they global leader in health systems.
quickly under a single strategy and a will be limited to few, highly selective, unified product portfolio.
examples that are consistent with our As founder of iSOFT, it is Patricks focus on being the leading application entrepreneurial talent, business acumen, content provider in our chosen markets.
and personal drive that have shaped the iSOFT business as it is today.
I am delighted that these exceptional skills will now be targeted toward the next phase of the Groups development.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Patrick on behalf of both the Board and the staff of iSOFT for his contribution to date, and I look forward to continuing working together as we move forward in the pursuit of the exciting new expectations we set for ourselves.
SECTION THREE PAGE EIGHT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT iSOFT Group plc is a quality business with strong fundamentals 09 Tim Whiston, the current Group Finance I am also pleased to announce that on The achievement of this years Director, will succeed Patrick as Chief 14 March 2003, Rene Kern was growth from the high base set in Executive Officer.
Tims succession will appointed as a non-executive director to previous years is testimony to the come as no surprise to our investors, the Board.
Rene is a senior executive resourcefulness and tenacity of customers, business partners and staff.
with General Atlantic Partners who, at our staff and the management team.
He is a natural successor with an the balance sheet date, owned 12.8% of I thank them all for their commitment excellent knowledge of the iSOFT Group the shares of iSOFT Group plc.
to the ongoing success of business.
The Board is delighted that the business.
Our management and staff we are able to promote from within for I am proud to say that in our workforce these key roles.
As stated in our Interim Governance we have some of the computer Report, these changes will take effect Over the last few years, but more industrys best technologists and from this years AGM in July.
At this particularly over the year ended software developers.
time the Board will announce the new 30 April 2003, we have sought to Group Finance Director.
This strong position is complemented demonstrate that good governance by a high order of professionalism is a high priority for our business.
and commitment across the We continue to modify and improve iSOFT organisation.
our management of the business by reference to best practice.
Included within this years Annual Report we have our most comprehensive report to date on governance within iSOFT.
We are concerned not only to deliver good performance for our shareholders but also to give confidence that the business is responsibly and consistently well managed.
The fact that iSOFT Group plc is a quality business with strong fundamentals gives me great confidence that the success achieved to date will continue to be exhibited into the future for the benefit of our shareholders, customers and staff.
Roger Dickens Executive Chairman CHAIRMANS STATEMENT SECTION THREE PAGE NINE
