Chairmans statement and operating review I am pleased to report another year of progress for Wetherspoon.
Sales increased by 129.6 million to 730.9 million, a rise of 22%.
Operating profit increased by 7% to 75.0 million, and profit before tax before exceptional items rose by 5% to 56.1 million.
Earnings per share before exceptional items increased by 2% to 17.0p.
I am pleased to report another year of progress for existing pubs, offset by a cash tax charge which Wetherspoon.
Sales increased by 129.6 million rose, as expected, from 16% to 24% of profits.
Operating profit increased by 7% to 75.0 million, and profit before Economic profit after cash tax, calculated by adding tax before exceptional items rose by 5% to depreciation to profit after tax before exceptional 56.1 million.
Earnings per share before items and subtracting capital expenditure on exceptional items increased by 2% to 17.0p.
existing pubs, increased by 12% to 70.1 million, with capital investment in existing pubs at 2.2% of turnover, compared with 3.1% of turnover in the previous period... cash flow per share of During the year, the company sold 18 pubs for a net 39.7p, more than double cash consideration of 10.7 million, giving rise to a loss on disposal of 2.7 million.
We have also earnings per share written down the value in the balance sheet by 1.0 million on two non-trading properties purchased for development which we now intend to sell.
This has led to a total exceptional loss in the Cash outflow in respect of capital investment was year of 3.7 million before taxation.
95.0 million, and net gearing at the year end was 97% 2002: 98%.
Net interest was covered 4.0 times We opened 45 pubs during the year, compared with 2002: 4.2 times by operating profit.
Operating 87 in the previous year.
The total number of pubs margins were 10.3%, compared with 11.7% last now operated by us is 638, including 3 opened since year, mainly as a result of higher labour and the year end.
The new pubs are in a variety of other pub costs.
locations throughout Britain and Northern Ireland and have opened at initial sales levels which are Free cash flow, after payments of tax, interest and encouraging for the future.
Like-for-like sales capital investment of 15.9 million in existing pubs, increased by 4%, although like-for-like profits increased by 19% to 85.1 million, resulting in free declined by 1%, principally as a result of higher cash flow per share of 39.7p, more than double costs for labour, repairs and insurance.
Free cash flow in the period was enhanced by lower-than-usual investment in 2 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW The number of Lloyds pubs increased to 50 and a strong position to finance future growth.
All of these pubs continue to show positive sales growth.
our capital expenditure on new pub developments was financed by organic-free cash flow in the year The company continues to try to upgrade every under review.
DIVIDENDS RETURN OF CAPITAL The board proposes, subject to shareholders Towards the end of the year, 8,245,000 shares consent, to pay a final dividend of 2.33p per share representing approximately 4% of the issued share on 28 November 2003 to those shareholders on the capital were purchased by the company for register on 31 October 2003, bringing the total cancellation at a cost of 20.1 million, representing dividend for the year to 3.54p per share, a 10% an average cost per share of 243p.
17.4 million of increase on the previous year.
At this level, the cost was an outflow in the year under review, dividends will be covered 4.8 times by earnings with the balance settled in the first week of the before exceptional items, compared with 5.2 times new financial year.
As a result, we expect earnings in 2002.
The company has decided to cease offering per share to be enhanced in the future.
a scrip alternative to dividends, now and for the foreseeable future.
REGULATION AND TAXATION In the last few years, the pub business, in common with many other businesses, has seen an increase in taxation and red tape.
The government has All of our capital decided to hand over responsibility for pub licences from the magistrates court to local authorities: this expenditure on new pub will involve a substantial increase in fees and other regulatory costs.
In addition, there have been developments was considerable increases in taxation, including excise financed by organic-free duty, which will cost approximately 2 million in the current financial year, and an increase in stamp cash flow duty for new leasehold properties, which will cost approximately 500,000 per annum.
These tax increases are in addition to the more highly publicised increases, such as those affecting FINANCE national insurance contributions.
The company had 87.9 million of unutilised banking facilities and 15.2 million of cash as at the balance sheet date.
Total facilities are now 412 million.
The increase in cash flow relative to capital expenditure means that the company is in ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW Pubs currently pay approximately 40% of their CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK turnover in taxes of one kind or another, and In August like-for-like sales increased by 3.5%, and further increases in this burden will mean that total company sales increased by 12%.
Profits, both pubs become less competitive and more expensive, in the current year and going forward, are likely to relative to an evening at home.
be impacted by regulatory and employee cost increases.
PEOPLE I would like to thank, again, our employees, Whereas we continue to see opportunities for partners and suppliers for their dedicated work in profitable expansion, the uncertainty created by creating another year of progress for the company.
increased red tape and taxation means that it is prudent to reduce the rate of that expansion, so that the level of capital investment for the foreseeable future remains approximately in line As a result of our strong with our free cash flow.
We have 7 sites in the course of construction, 33 with the necessary cash flow, our track record permission for development, a further 10 on which terms have been agreed and 99 currently in over many years and our negotiation.
excellent management As a result of our strong cash flow, our track record team, I remain confident over many years and our excellent management team, I remain confident of our future prospects.
Tim Martin Chairman 5 September 2003 4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
