Chairmans Statement Overall, we are well positioned in fundamentally strong markets and are confident we will deliver good medium term growth.
After achieving in excess of 15% compound annual Delivering growth and returns growth in revenues and EBITA over the previous five Our strategy for medium term growth is focused on years, the marginal increase in EBITA this year, mainly our broad range of complementary activities in five due to difficult conditions in the power market, was growth areas in the oil & gas and power markets.
Our 2003 revenues showed During the year we continued to gain market share good growth to US$1,992.6 million 2002: US$1,738.1 and achieve good revenue growth from both million, but EBITA only rose to US$137.2 million acquisitions and organic developments.
2002: US$135.9 million and adjusted earnings per In deepwater topsides, subsea and offshore pipeline ordinary share was 15.4 cents 2002: 16.5 cents.
engineering we are involved in 60% of current The recommended final dividend of 2.2 cents per deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico, including ordinary share takes the total dividend for the year to some initial work on Gulf Terra's Atwater Valley 3.3 cents 2002: 3.0 cents.
project and Kerr McGees Constitution Engineering & Production Facilities delivered a good development.
In West Africa, we have completed performance.
Engineering enjoyed high activity work on Chevron Texacos Agbami project and are levels and Production Facilities won a number of currently working on their Benguela-Belize project.
significant new contracts in both our established and In Asia Pacific, we worked on Unocals West Seno newer markets.
Well Support delivered a much development and Murphys Kikeh discovery.
improved performance in the year.
Pressure Control is continuing to extend its presence outside the US In production support and enhancement services and ESP has recently won its most significant contract we were awarded five-year contracts by both in Russia.
Gas Turbine Services had a difficult year TOTAL and Talisman Energy UK Limited with the continuing surplus of generation capacity in Talisman to support their UK North Sea assets - North America, together with the poor financial further confirmation of our leading role in reducing condition of certain independent power producers, our clients' operating costs, enhancing their contributing to both delay of gas turbine overhaul production and improving health, safety and work and increased pricing pressure.
In West Africa we are supporting Marathons facilities onshore and We continued our investment programme with total offshore in Equatorial Guinea, and, in Brunei, a capital spend at US$96.4 million 2002: US$202.2 Wood Group-led joint venture is now working with million, including the acquisitions of KCI and Barber Industries, and US$74.5 million of capital Brunei Shell Petroleum to manage and upgrade expenditure.
8 John Wood Group PLC 7 Our internationalisation of Well Support is our heavy industrial turbine growth in continental progressing well.
Wood Group ESP electric Europe.
submersible pumps won a five-year, US$50 million In outsourcing and managed services our spread of contract with Repsol YPF in Argentina and further life-of-field oil & gas and power industry support extended its operations in Ecuador, China and services has helped us win significant long-term Russia and is now well positioned to win more contracts in all three businesses.
In the North Sea business in these areas.
Pressure Control has good we now have the capability to be the safety case growth potential in Canada following the duty holder which is particularly relevant to the acquisition of Barber Industries and has continued requirements of the newer entrants.
Worldwide we to win international market share, including believe we are a leader in the provision of longcontracts in Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Australia and term production enhancement performance Oman.
contracts using electric submersible pumps.
In the In the industrial gas turbines aftermarket we have power industry we are winning contracts covering increased our controls and operations & the full maintenance responsibility, including the maintenance capabilities, and have broadened our gas turbines, generators, controls and field service.
service offering, including new electrical generator The global infrastructure of the Group, our strong service facilities in the UK and the US.
We also client relationships, know-how, project and risk opened our new Heavy Industrial Turbine Center of management services plus our flexible performance Excellence in Connecticut and expanded our facility in Thailand.
Since the year-end, we have contracting solutions have all contributed to the completed the acquisition of Z. TEC to accelerate revenue growth this year.
John Wood Group PLC 9 Our extensive operations and maintenance knowledge can be applied at key stages of the greenfield design process to improve operating efficiency.
Our People successful international development in Production Facilities.
We also anticipate some recovery in Gas My sincere thanks go to the Board for their continuing Turbine Services following a number of initiatives to hard work and wise counsel.
Bill Edgar will retire in reduce costs and enhance performance.
However, as May after nine successful years.
I look forward to indicated in previous statements, we believe continuing welcoming Trevor Noble and Les Thomas to lead the industry-wide delays in the progress of large deepwater continuing development of Engineering & Production engineering projects will hold back our overall Facilities.
Deputy Chief Executive, Allister Langlands, performance in 2004. has taken on the role of Chief Executive of Gas Turbine Our strategy remains robust and our activities are well Services and I am encouraged by the initiatives he has positioned to exploit key growth segments in already put in place to drive performance worldwide oil & gas and power markets.
Above all, my warm thanks to all our continuing to gain market share in key target markets employees more than 13,000 in 34 countries for and achieving good revenue growth from both organic their customer care, their skills, their commitment and and acquisition developments.
Overall, we are well their enthusiasm and dedication in driving our further positioned in fundamentally strong markets and are growth.
confident we will deliver good medium term growth.
Outlook Overall, we expect the world oil & gas markets to show year-on-year growth of some 5% against a continuing backdrop of stable and relatively strong commodity prices in 2004.
We believe we will see continuing Sir Ian Wood growth in our Well Support activities and further 10 John Wood Group PLC Wood Group operates a successful graduate training programme.
OUTSOURCED AND SOLUTIONS-BASED SERVICES A Wood Group led joint venture was awarded a fiveyear integrated services contract by Shell for the maintenance and upgrading of offshore facilities and the execution of offshore projects in Brunei.
Photograph courtesy of Shell Photographic Services, Shell International Limited.
Production Facilities continues to win a number of significant new contracts in both our established and newer markets.
