Part of Life 04 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chairmans STATEMENT By Roger Parry Chairman 2003 was another superb year for the Group.
Cash generation, revenue and profit have all risen to record levels.
Assisted by an excellent first full-year contribution from Regional Independent Media Holdings Ltd RIM, as a result of its highly successful integration into the Group, headline earnings per share rose strongly by 21%.
The focus of the management team has been on strengthening our existing operations by improving services to readers and advertisers as well as capturing cost savings.
It has been a year of real progress.
The success of Johnston Press is Investment in 2003 has gone into seen circulations rise and by a very built upon an unwavering commitment enhancing our presses, systems, substantial increase in website use.
to serve local communities by the processes and publishing portfolio.
provision of news, information and This has been achieved by providing In addition, we have seen further entertainment.
Through our more colour printing, by using new growth in spending by our advertising publications and websites, we aim to technology to speed up the process customers in our main classified provide compelling content to every by which our publications get to our advertising categories, both in print section of the community: be they readers, and by improving the and on-line.
young or old, at home or at work and functionality and content of our whatever their range of interests.
We have been rewarded by aim to be the premium provider of an increase in the circulation of our print and on-line information in all of core weekly titles of 1.3%, which is our chosen local markets.
the seventh consecutive year we have Part of Life 06 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chairmans STATEMENT Results Strategy In 2003, we achieved a turnover of As we do every year, the Board has regional press in the UK has 492 million, up 15%, profit before conducted a thorough strategic produced substantial benefits for tax of 128 million, up 38%, and free review of our existing business and both readers and advertisers.
It is cash flow of 95 million, up 10%.
explored all the various opportunities important, therefore, that the Headline earnings per share rose open to us for future investment.
Government and competition from 26.75p to 32.36p.
Recognising the considerable authorities do not stand in the way of success of our strategy to date, future consolidation where there are Dividend we re-affirmed that we are best demonstrable benefits.
The Board proposes a final dividend positioned to achieve growth from of 4p per share, making a total of 6p continuing to serve selected local Plurality of editorial voice does not per share compared to 5.4p per communities with their diverse automatically flow from plurality of share last year.
This is an increase information needs.
There are many examples of 11%.
where a strong and well resourced We continue to very actively seek local newspaper company provides In the 2003 calendar year, the Groups acquisition opportunities that would excellent and varied editorial share price rose by 26%.
Whilst this mesh with our existing portfolio of products and there is no evidence to is very pleasing to all of us as businesses and to pursue organic suggest that the quality of local news shareholders, your Board recognises growth through a range of new inand information is diminished in that this is no more than an expression print and on-line initiatives.
markets where there is only one of market opinion and that we must publisher of local newspapers.
It is continue to focus on the real Media Ownership certainly our policy to encourage fundamentals of satisfying the needs All the evidence suggests that the wide editorial diversity.
of our readers and advertisers.
consolidation of ownership in the Board During the past year we have been delighted to welcome two new NonExecutive Directors to the Johnston Recognising the considerable success of our Press Board.
strategy to date, we re-affirmed that we are best positioned to achieve growth from Simon Waugh is the Group Marketing Director of Centrica and Martina King continuing to serve selected local communities is the Managing Director of Yahoo with their diverse information needs.
Both bring considerable experience of consumer marketing.
As I reported to shareholders last year, Sir Harry Roche will be stepping down at the AGM in April 2004 on the event of his seventieth birthday and I would like to record the thanks of the Board for his invaluable contribution as a director of Johnston Press.
Part of Life Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 07 We see continued growth in free cash flow and earnings per share coming from further increases in circulation and advertising revenues coupled with continuing tight control of costs.
The Board is optimistic that we will be able to achieve this growth in 2004 and beyond.
After Sir Harrys retirement, the Prospects Board will consist of nine directors.
The achievement of continuing Of these, four are regarded as organic revenue growth remains independent non-executives.
Freddy central to the Groups objectives.
and Harry Johnston are not seen as Of the many financial and independent, as a result of their commercial measures of a company, length of service on the Board and we regard the most important as significant shareholdings, although being free cash flow and earnings the other directors are unanimous in per share.
We see continued growth believing that they always act in the in these coming from further interests of all shareholders.
The rest increases in circulation and of the Board is made up of myself, advertising revenues coupled with the Chief Executive and the Finance continuing tight control of costs.
This Board composition and Board is optimistic that we will be that of the Board committees mean able to achieve this growth in 2004 that we are in full compliance with and beyond.
best practice in corporate governance.
