Chairmans statement Strong operational and financial performance in the Yorkshire Water business and the successful acquisitions in the US by Aquarion contributed to growth in profit before tax and exceptional items of 7.7%.
The final year results maintained and improved the good start In the interim results the Board announced important senior made in the first half.
In total, profit before tax and exceptional management changes with the appointment of Kevin Whiteman, items of 175.2m was up 7.7% on prior year.
The underlying Managing Director of Yorkshire Water as Chief Executive, Martin adjusted earnings per share excluding deferred tax were 42.4p Towers joined us as Group Finance Director and Rich Schmidt, per share an 8.4% increase on prior year.
The main source of the President of Aquarion was appointed as an executive director of improved result was an excellent second half performance from Kelda Group plc.
These appointments have further strengthened Yorkshire Water with further cost and capital efficiencies which Kelda management, and are part of a continuing review of at the same time delivered best ever drinking water compliance, management standards at all levels in the company.
environmental and customer service outputs.
One of the continuing features of last year was the delivery The Kelda balance sheet remains strong with gearing of the benefits arising from our focus on water and waste of 50%.
An opportunity was taken in the year to increase long water.
In the US the acquisition of the New England operations term debt with a successful offering of 300m bonds which of American Water Works was completed and integrated completed in February.
The Board recommend a final dividend into existing operations.
The US management responded of 18.19p per share which makes a full year dividend of 26.05p, well to an integration challenge which coincided with a period an increase of 2.2% compared to prior year.
of increased operating complexity caused by water restrictions due to the low snowfall of the prior year.
Aquarion was successful in winning a major $110m waste water contract in Bridgeport, Connecticut, and made further investment in the organic growth of contract operations expertise.
04 In the UK Yorkshire Water had an excellent year.
It delivered Our strategy of focusing on water and waste water and on service beyond expectations on cost and capital dimensions whilst and efficiency, has resulted in Kelda progressing to become one achieving best ever standards of performance in crucial of the most efficient companies in the sector.
Our objective is compliance and customer service dimensions.
It was also to maintain our focus and emphasis on performance which we successful in winning the Midlands, Wales and South West believe to be in the best interests of our shareholders and customers.
region in the national Ministry of Defence contract, one of In summary, this has been a year of continued progress on the largest contracts of its type ever put to tender.
Given the performance of the company, the Board Water was also granted an interim price adjustment from Ofwat would wish to thank the management team and equally for the period up to April 2005 which covers the needs of importantly to thank all employees for their positive contribution increased investment, increased costs in sewer flooding and to improved results.
The world and the water sector remains higher construction costs.
It also enables us to meet the a challenging environment.
There is no place for complacency challenge of increased Drinking Water Inspectorate compliance if we are to continually meet the demands of increasing and environmental standards.
Yorkshire Water had a year of efficiency, simultaneous improvement of standards of quality continuing progress in all aspect of its services and operations.
Our goals must be to improve There was good progress in the results of the supporting performance further, expand outsourced and contract operations of KeyLand property and Loop customer services.
operations, and be responsive to opportunities for further An announcement was made earlier this year regarding our profitable growth in our core activities, whilst maintaining 45.5% holding in Waste Recycling Group plc WRG to the a positive dialogue with government and regulators.
effect that WRG was in discussions which may or may not lead Since the half year we have had the confirmation of the to an offer for WRG from the private equity firm Terra Firma.
25 year Aquatrine contract and the interim price determination Subsequent to the signing of the 2002 03 accounts, on 9 June which takes us to year March 2005.
These are both positive 2003 WRG announced a recommended offer from Terra Firma outcomes since we published our half year results.
We said for 267.5p per share to be effected by a scheme of arrangement.
then and repeat now, that with regard to the possible 2005 The continuous delivery of Keldas water and waste water price determination we continue to be encouraged by the services has a significant environmental dimension.
We deal dialogue between regulator, government and industry.
There with environmental issues as diverse as management and access is an increased consensus on the significant achievements of of water catchment areas, sustainable water management, the industry and on the priorities that need to be addressed river water and bathing water standards.
Our performance if we are to encourage equity and capital markets to provide affects all our customers and everyone who lives in the region the industrys long term investment funding, on which all we serve.
Kelda attempts at all times to be environmentally future quality improvements increasingly depend.
We have also developed a broad section of community view the long term industry outlook remains positive as programmes involving partnerships within local communities long as this dialogue is maintained.
and organisations to help support and deliver community involvement by programmes of education, amenities, protection and sustainability on a wide range of environmental matters.
Our staff and management are also involved in a large number of voluntary programmes supporting broader community initiatives such as improved reading standards in schools, improved health and nutrition for children.
We also sponsor and support community initiative programmes.
We have actively supported government schemes to improve countryside access and amenity by working closely with the competing interests and increased public access to our important moorland catchment John Napier and nature conservation areas.
All these activities constitute Chairman part of what is now termed corporate and social responsibility.
Such activities have and continue to form an essential part of our day to day actions and responsibilities and are reported in more detail in this report.
The Board was pleased to see the shareholder support that has led to Kelda entering the FTSE 100.
Kelda believes it has played a part in helping to get greater financial market recognition of the underlying value of the water sector.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 05 05
