chairmans statement The cornerstones of a successful company include management and staff but also strong brands.
We are fortunate indeed in these less certain times to have strengths in all three.
Overview of Results The last few years have presented Hilton In addition, Christopher Rodrigues 54 The Groups profit before taxation, Group with a number of challenges but was appointed as a non-executive director goodwill amortisation and exceptional also opportunities.
Ladbrokes had a good year growing from has been appointed President and Chief the foundations laid over recent times Executive of Visa International with effect Worldwide Betting gross win at 755.5 whereas the hotel division resolutely from June 2004.
In March 2004 he leaves million was up by 21.4%, with growth in fought difficult market conditions caused Bradford & Bingley plc which he joined all areas of the business.
The introduction by the Iraq war, SARS and economic in 1996 as Group Chief Executive having of Fixed Odds Betting Terminals FOBTs decline in some key parts of Europe.
previously been Group Chief Executive of provided a step change in machine Thomas Cook.
turnover including AWPs, which All things considered, it is pleasing to report increased by just over 3.0 billion.
that earnings per share have been maintained Dividend With operating costs increasing at 13%, at last years level and with this in mind the The Board has recommended a final operating profit at 214.1 million increased Board has decided to maintain the total dividend of 5.52 pence per share payable by 43.4%, principally driven by growth in dividend for 2003 at 8.92 pence per share.
on 1 June 2004 to shareholders on the UK Retail.
This final dividend, We are delighted that the Ladbrokes team together with the interim dividend of 3.40 The hotel division saw operating profit have grasped every opportunity to enhance pence, gives a total dividend of 8.92 pence, for the year fall by 65.6 million to their performance and profitability in what and is maintained at last years level.
146.5 million due to the difficult trading is a constantly changing and challenging conditions over the period, most notably environment.
The hotel division had to Outlook in Europe.
Underlying profit, after adjusting cope with demanding markets and with In a growing betting market, 2004 will for property changes and exchange the challenge following the untimely death continue to present new opportunities movements, fell by 25.3%.
of Anthony Harris, which led to additional for Ladbrokes to develop their businesses.
responsibilities being undertaken by The year has started well in each of our The Board David Michels, Brian Wallace and their main three businesses of shops, eGaming On 9 December 2003 Louise Patten senior team.
My Board colleagues and and telephone betting.
retired as a non-executive director I are very grateful to the Hilton Group and we would like to thank her for team and to the highly professional and There are some signs of a gradual recovery the significant contribution she made effective people they lead.
emerging in the hotel sector but we need to the Group over the last ten years.
to see an upward trend in our key markets The Board is fully committed to achieving for some months to restore confidence and Two new Board appointments were high standards of corporate governance strengthen rates.
On 1 June 2003, and we are pleased to report very good Ian Livingston 39 was appointed as progress against the requirements of the a non-executive director.
Ian is Group new Combined Code.
Finance Director of BT Group plc having previously been Group Finance Director The cornerstones of a successful company of Dixons Group plc.
include management and staff but also Sir Ian Robinson strong brands.
We are fortunate indeed Chairman in these less certain times to have strengths 26 February 2004 in all three.
Looking ahead the Board is confident that by nurturing these strengths, the Company will move forward successfully.
02 Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2003
