Chairmans statement 2 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Our first full-year performance as a merged company exceeded our original expectations.
Chairmans statement For LogicaCMG, and the entire technology The full-year results were at the top of The integration process is sector, performance was stronger in the market expectations, delivering adjusted now substantially complete second half of the year.
Investment earnings per share of 9.2p.
The board has and we entered 2004 with confidence increased, enabling thus declared a final dividend of 3.4p, a significantly more LogicaCMG shares to reverse the making 5.7p for the year, in line with our competitive cost-base.
underperformance of the first half.
interim results demonstrated good execution in integrating the businesses, a Governance and the board reversal of the UK revenue decline of the Corporate governance was a major theme prior period and proper alignment of costs in 2003, with many countries, including to revenues in wireless networks.
As a the UK and the Netherlands, introducing result, our shares outperformed the sector new guidelines.
LogicaCMG is well aligned software and services throughout the to these trends with a balanced board of remainder of the year, closing up 71% at executive and non-executive directors 2.56 1.50 on 31 December 2002. and duly constituted board committees.
Additional disclosures concerning We remain committed to our secondary LogicaCMGs approach can be found listing on Euronext in Amsterdam.
In in the corporate governance report on March 2004, we moved from their AEX to pages 44 to 46. their Midkap Index, reflecting the smaller percentage of shares traded in Amsterdam This annual report includes a separate post-merger.
However, recognising the corporate social responsibility CSR liquidity of, and interest in, our shares, statement on pages 34 to 35.
This reflects Euronext has initiated option trading in our CSR commitment and highlights the LogicaCMG shares.
many policies that have long been an integral part of the way we run the company.
Chairmans statement 3 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Ian Taylor, our human resources director, In the second half of 2003, revenue in our IT increased our market share, a trend that has has informed the board of his intention to services business was stable, reversing continued into 2004, as evidenced by retire on 30 June 2004.
He will remain as recent declines.
The market environment is recent contract announcements.
This is an executive director of the company until gradually improving, but clients capital establishing a platform for future revenue his retirement.
expenditure is still subject to tight growth that will be driven by increased constraints at this stage in the economic messaging traffic and the consequent need Ian played a key role through the integration cycle.
Outsourcing therefore remains the for additional capacity.
Building on the and, previously, had a distinguished career best growth opportunity.
We saw signs of progress of 2003, we expect to achieve with CMG.
I would like to thank him for his improvement in all our major markets except revenue growth in 2004.
In line with the contribution to the business.
Germany where revenues continued to normal trading pattern, revenue is likely to decline.
Overall, we plan to return to growth be weighted to the second half.
We also Ians operational role has been taken over in 2004.
With the full-year impact of our expect to make further progress in by Nigel Perks, previously group personnel merger cost-savings, but allowing for the improving margins towards our target director, who became a member of the difficult German market, we expect the of 15% for the fourth quarter, seasonally executive committee in March 2004. operating margin for IT services in 2004 to our strongest.
be slightly ahead of the level achieved in the Outlook second half of 2003.
I look forward to reporting further Our first full-year performance as a advances in the positioning of our merged company exceeded our original The wireless networks business returned to business at the end of 2004. expectations.
The integration process is revenue growth and profitability in the now substantially complete and we second half of 2003.
It is encouraging that entered 2004 with a significantly more our customers are beginning to achieve competitive cost-base.
The benefit of our increases in data revenues, including increased scale and broader range of multimedia messaging MMS, and are offerings was reflected in a book-to-bill starting to invest in more robust, scaleable, Cor Stutterheim ratio of 1.12:1 for 2003.
This gives us a integrated delivery platforms.
We secured a solid platform to build from in 2004. significant number of MMS contracts and Chairman
