Annual report and accounts 2003 Chairmans statement As reported to shareholders in November and Current trading and dividends This resulted in payments to his scheme of January, after many years of strong growth, we 370,000 covering the two years to 28 February Trading so far in the current year has seen experienced a difficult trading period in the 2003.
The results of the remuneration review our markets stabilise in line with the levels second half of the year to 2 March 2003. were implemented after consultation within the experienced in the second half of last year.
This reflected a significant downturn in the Companys larger shareholders.
Our revised approach to trading should enable sector in which the Company trades.
us to achieve results in line with expectations.
As can be seen from the Remuneration Report The profit before tax after the amortisation of in June 2002 a number of Executive Directors In light of the Boards confidence in the future, it goodwill for the year was 54m.
The profit before realised incentives under a scheme relating to is recommending a final dividend of 8.06 pence, tax and before goodwill amortisation which is the warrants which was set up in 1999.
The total giving a dividend of 11.40 pence for the year, measure normally used for investment analyses amounts realised are substantial, reflecting which represents an increase of 15%.
purposes was 67m which was down four performance prior to the current year.
The effect percent on the previous year.
Earnings per share of the subsequent difficult trading conditions on Board and corporate governance before goodwill amortisation were 60 pence.
the share price means that the warrant scheme John Aust, our Commercial Director, will be is unlikely to result in further benefits under this retiring as a Director at the AGM.
He has Our Chief Executive, Stephen Thomas, sets out scheme until the share price has recovered worked for the Company for 12 years and in his report our strategy to ensure we continue significantly.
For the present, it is intended to I would like to thank him for his hard work and to develop as the UKs leading provider of revise the existing option schemes to incentivise dedication to Luminar and wish him well with popular late night entertainment.
The Company current performance and share price recovery.
will use its financial strength to invest in its The Remuneration Committee will continue to portfolio of core market segmented brands.
review developing best practice and the most The Board has worked over the last two years Stephen Thomas also details the short-term effective method of aligning the interests of in strengthening its organisation, processes and actions being taken by management to respond managers and shareholders.
performance, taking account of current guidance to the more difficult market conditions.
We are awaiting the In addition, Stephen Thomas has a contract with outcome of the FRCs review of the Higgs Our Finance Director, Andrew Burns, has set out the Company containing a requirement for either Report before implementing any further changes.
in his report an explanation of the financial party to give two years notice of termination.
Two of our Non-Executive Directors are Under the contract, he also has a two-year scheduled to retire before the end of 2003. restrictive covenant relating to competitive These are John Williams, our Senior Nonactivity.
Any compensation under the contract is Executive Director who has served the Company subject to mitigation.
These arrangements were for seven years, and Bob Wickham who joined us agreed at the time of the flotation of the following the acquisition of Northern Leisure in Company when the Company was advised 2000.
We are currently that investors would require arrangements of recruiting their replacements and will make an this type.
Subsequent corporate governance announcement in due course.
practice requires that termination periods of this length be disclosed and explained.
The Board Remuneration and Directors Contracts reported last year that it regarded these There are a number of points relating to the arrangements as in the best interests of the topics of remuneration and contracts that Company.
During the year to 28 February 2003, position of the Company.
Significantly, the I should explain to shareholders.
one major shareholder requested to renegotiate business delivered cash flow from operating this contract although it subsequently sold its activities before capital investments of 113m.
At the start of the year the Remuneration shares.
The Board intends to await the findings of This demonstrates the Companys attractive Committee conducted a periodic review of the the CBIs review of practices in this area Chaired financial characteristics.
remuneration of the executive team with the by Sir Nigel Rudd before reconsidering this issue.
advice of independent remuneration consultants.
Last year was the first year since the Company This resulted in some changes to basic salaries, On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the floated in 1996 that it has not achieved a strong bonuses and benefits.
The review also identified management and the staff for their hard work growth in earnings.
Over the previous five years that the pension arrangements for Stephen and determination over what has been a it achieved compound annual growth in earnings Thomas were very materially below those for challenging period.
per share before goodwill amortisation of equivalent executives and pension contributions 29 percent.
We are all determined to return to to his defined contribution pension fund were Keith Hamill delivering good earnings performance and superior increased from 15% of salary to 45% of his Chairman returns.
We are now starting to see some benefits current salary for the three years to 28 February from the weakness of many of our competitors.
2004, when they will revert to 25% of salary.
