CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Q: What do you regard as the Companys most significant Anglo owns 44%, our phosphates operation in Brazil Copebrs, achievements of 2003?
the commissioning of Loma fide Nquel in Venezuela and, above all, A: Overall, Anglos operations did well to produce a very solid set the acquisition of the Disputada now known as Minera Sur Andes of results in the face of difficult currency movements.
I would suggest securing final approval for the acquisition of a controlling stake in Kumba as the most significant achievement.
I visited almost all of our operations in Latin America during 2003.
This has been a long term objective.
Iron ore will strengthen the The continent is facing some political instability.
Nonetheless, Chile balance of our portfolio and our position has been achieved at continues to show the maturity of its democracy and institutions a reasonable cost to shareholders.
and I have been impressed by President Lula da Silvas emphasis in Brazil on macro-economic stability and on welcoming foreign direct In the non-financial arena I would identify both the provision of antiinvestment a point which he particularly emphasised when he retroviral therapy to HIV positive staff and the introduction of the opened Copebrs expansion project.
As far as I am aware, SEAT is a unique initiative which will enable our operations to become Q: Does Anglo have a disproportionate exposure to southern Africa?
more professional and strategic in their interactions with communities.
What about continuing investor concern?
A: We remain committed to South Africa and believe that this years Q: But clearly there are things with which you are not satisfied.
celebrations of the transition to democracy will highlight the real Where will the board be looking for the most significant improvement achievements of the past decade.
Of course there are problems in the in performances in 2004?
region not least the continuing turmoil in Zimbabwe and HIV AIDS.
A: We have made remarkable strides in improving the Groups But South Africa itself has strong institutions and a vibrant civil overall safety performance over the last five years.
After the strongly negative investor reaction to the leaking of the board remains determined to see further reductions in fatalities.
an early draft of the Mining Empowerment Charter in 2002, the final My colleagues and I visited New Denmark colliery in South Africa requirements which have emerged are financeable for fair value.
It is in October and there we saw what can be achieved in embedding in the interests of South Africas long term stability that there should a safety culture through strong and focused leadership.
Ben Magara, be a rebalancing of ownership in the economy.
We have been pioneers the colliery manager, has produced substantial safety advances in black economic empowerment deals and I am also pleased with the coupled with performance improvements in almost all areas.
Time substantial growth, R3.5 billion in 2003, in procurement from black and again we see that teamwork, a real sense of shared objectives owned businesses.
Our Zimele small business development unit is amongst the workforce, and the operating disciplines needed to invested in 30 growing companies, providing over 2,000 direct jobs.
deliver safe performance, lead to overall improvement of performance.
Our challenge is to ensure that the lessons of I should note too in southern Africa the consistent courage and operations like New Denmark are learned more widely.
skill of our managers in Zimbabwe and also the inauguration during 2003 of our Skorpion zinc mine.
This will account for some 4% of Q: During 2003 there has been a renewed focus on corporate Namibias GDP at full production.
How does Anglo measure against the Higgs Report?
A: Markets work most efficiently where there is confidence.
Clearly, Q: But the Extractive Industries Review, in which you participated, events over the last two years on both sides of the Atlantic provide has produced a negative assessment of the impact of the mining examples of how poor governance, or unhealthy dominance of strategy sector.
by an individual or clique, have resulted in shareholders losing a lot A: I was disappointed by Dr Salims report.
It is very much a personal of money.
Society is entitled to see how such outcomes can best be appreciation, but I think it suffers from having taken very little input prevented.
In general I think a workable structure has emerged.
from governments and relied excessively on the more radical and absolutist end of the NGO movement.
It recommends that the Anglo American has a strong team of non-executive directors World Bank should remain involved in the sector.
But it then adds and we have restructured our board committees to meet the Higgs so many caveats that its recommendations would reduce the Banks recommendations.
I am also delighted that the board has been involvement and, thereby, diminish the investment going to some strengthened by the appointment of Dr Maria Silvia Bastos Marques.
of the poorest countries for which the responsible exploitation of She brings very pertinent experience of Latin America and of the resources is their best route out of poverty.
I do not take lightly the metals sector and is also the first woman to be elected to the Anglo examples of how resource projects have fed corruption or conflict.
But, properly understood, these are examples of a poor governance curse rather than a resource curse.
Anglo American has been Q: What is the new Bonus Share Plan that is being proposed?
prominent in supporting the Extractive Industries Transparency A: The BSP will strengthen the linkage of rewards to performance.
Initiative which aims to tackle the misuse of revenues generated The new plan will require executive directors to invest a greater by the sector.
The mining industry, as a long term investor, proportion of their remuneration in shares up front, thereby better has an interest in good governance.
We want to see the positive aligning their interests with those of shareholders.
Awards under development experiences of Chile, Botswana, South Africa and Oman the BSP will be made annually and will consist of three elements: or indeed, historically, Canada and Australia shared more widely.
a cash element, a Bonus Share element and an Enhancement Share element.
These bonus awards will not be pensionable.
A resolution Q: Finally, how do you rate Anglos performance on sustainable seeking approval for the BSP and authorising the directors to development?
implement it in the UK and other countries where we operate will A: We are making good progress.
I note that one of the biggest be proposed at the AGM.
A letter from the chairman of the corporate socially responsible investment houses recently described Remuneration Committee explaining the terms of the BSP is being us as being a challenger for sector leadership in relation to corporate sent to all shareholders.
We are doing leading-edge work in relation to HIV AIDS, local business development and community engagement.
Q: Anglo has expanded its interests in Latin America.
How do you I have seen very thoughtful initiatives under way in areas like see prospects in that continent?
assessing our economic and developmental impacts, climate change A: Over the last two years we have seen work start on expansions and biodiversity.
Of course, there are still improvements to be made at our Cerrejn coal operation in Colombia of which Anglo owns a in some areas such as target setting and in embedding best practice third, Collahuasi in Chile a world class copper operation, of which more widely but Anglo is moving strongly in the right direction.
02 Chairmans statement Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003
