CHAIRMANS STATEMENT | SKILLTHOUGHTVISION The Company has achieved another year of strong performance.
We have made excellent progress in implementing our strategic plans and have demonstrated good performance in terms of like-for-like sales, margins, return on capital and free cash flow.
Leslie Porter, Company Secretary, meeting with David Thompson, Chairman.
Results Dividend People Turnover of 490.5m was 15.1m below The Board proposes a final dividend of The continuing improvement in the last year as a consequence of transferring 21.2p per share, which brings the total net performance of the Company is due managed pubs to lease and completing dividend for the year to 32.1p per share.
to the enthusiasm, commitment and the rationalisation of WDB Brands.
The management Underlying operating margins increased The year-on-year increase in dividend is style within the business continues to by 0.5% to 22.1% and return on capital 10.1%, reflecting our underlying growth in develop as one in which decision-making was maintained at 12.6%.
Against a earnings per share and our recognition is delegated and spread throughout the background of intense competition and that cash dividends are an important part business, and our people are responding price discounting, this strong performance of the overall return achieved by investors.
I would like to thank all of contributed to a 10.1% increase in Our approach to dividends has been them for the tremendous contributions underlying earnings per share to 68.9p consistent over a 30 year period.
In particular, it is a matter per share.
of record that last year saw the highest The final dividend, if approved, will be ever number of long service awards, 45, paid on 30 January 2004 to those and this highlights the way we seek to shareholders on the register at the close combine experience with new ideas.
4 W&DB Annual Report 2003 Outlook We believe that this good result is the product of a clear, well thought-through strategy, correctly positioned businesses and strong operational management.
Our strategy, which is set out in detail in the Chief Executives review, includes a continuing focus on freehold community pubs and high quality ale brands.
Ours is a cash-generative business, enabling us to operate an ongoing share buy-back programme.
We bought back and cancelled 1.2m shares at a cost of 7.5m in this financial year and a further 0.7m shares at a cost of 4.7m since the year end.
We have now returned 138m to shareholders in the last two years.
The market remains competitive and is mature.
These factors are likely to ensure that consolidation of pubs, breweries and beer brands will continue.
We believe that consumer trends and the need to comply with more stringent legislation will, in the long run, favour good quality, well-positioned businesses such as ours.
In the meantime, we are encouraged David Thompson presenting Diane Sinclair by the robustness of our trading platform, with her 25-year long service award.
as demonstrated by these results.
David Thompson Chairman W&DB Annual Report 2003 5
