Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that sales and profits have once again increased.
Sales in the period grew by 21% During the period, Matalan and he has therefore been retained and profits before tax by 9%.
Our commenced a major business as a consultant to Matalan.
retail business has increased sales systems investment programme.
Outlook and profits again, despite the When completed, our new systems Matalans management team slowing growth in retail markets.
will generate further efficiencies, remains focused on reinforcing the The investments made over the past particularly in stock management and core values which have been the eighteen months in Lee Cooper stock availability, improving the foundation of the Companys and Wolsey have made satisfactory platform for profitable and sustainable success, and which are given to all returns.
staff on joining, namely: Reecting the Companys strong offer outstanding value to Directors financial position and our confidence members: In March 2003 John King was in the future, the Board is proposing appointed as Group Chief Executive.
respect each other: to increase the final dividend for the John joined Matalan in February 2002 respect the customer: period by 13% to 5.4p per share as Chief Executive of Lee Cooper, keep it simple: and 2002: 4.8p per share.
This will mean before being appointed Matalan keep the costs under control.
total dividends for the period of 8.1p Trading Director in October 2002. per share 2002: 7.2p per share, In a more value conscious market, In March 2003, Paul Mason and which are covered 2.6 times 2002: we believe that Matalans strong Andy Clarke who was appointed in 2.5 times by earnings.
combination of price and quality will June 2002 resigned as Group Chief be increasingly attractive to our Matalan Retail Executive and Retail Director members.
Our active membership, The investment in Matalans store respectively.
I would like to thank which has grown over the period by opening programme has continued.
them for their contribution in the 0.9 million to 9.1 million, remains a At the end of the period, Matalan period they were with the Company.
unique resource and, together with traded from 163 stores, having our planned range and product opened 20 new stores, resited 5 and In November 2002, Phil Dutton joined improvements, provides the platform extended 3.
In total, 0.8 million the Board as Group Finance Director for continued sustainable sales and square feet was added to the estate following Ian Smiths resignation, profit growth.
in the period, increasing trading which was announced in August 2002. space by 21.6% to 4.5 million square I would like to take this opportunity to feet.
It is planned to add an additional thank Ian for his invaluable contribution 0.6 million square feet this current and support over that period.
The Board recognises the knowledge and John Hargreaves period in line with our long-term target of 8 million square feet in the UK.
experience of Ians 13 years service Group Chairman 3 4
