I am delighted to be appointed Chairman and Chief Executive of such a well-respected and successful Company and I look forward, together with the rest of the Board, with enthusiasm to the future challenges.
Page 4 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc Chairmans Statement The Group once again delivered record results.
The highlights are: Profit before taxation was 116.0m 75.4m, an increase Padfield Court, Wembley Park of 54% Basic earnings per share were 76.5p 49.2p, an increase Board Changes of 55% On 13 June 2003 the Board announced it had received an The Directors propose a final dividend of 9.8p which, with approach concerning a possible offer.
The approach was from an interim dividend of 3.9p, makes a total dividend for the John McCarthy, who was at that stage Non-Executive Chairman, year of 13.7p 11.4p, an increase of 20% on behalf of the McCarthy family.
The remainder of the Board, the Independent Directors, considered the proposal and The Groups dividend cover is 5.6 times deemed it unacceptable.
On 11 July, John McCarthy confirmed Cash balances at the year end amounted to 82.5m his decision not to pursue an offer for the Company and 53.5m subsequently resigned as Non-Executive Chairman and Director.
Since the year end the Group repaid on 1 October 2003 I would, once again, wish to record our very great appreciation the outstanding 22.2m, 8.75% Redeemable Preference for the enormous contribution that John McCarthy has made to Shares the Company since he co-founded McCarthy & Stone in 1963.
The Groups pre-tax return on capital on the basis of In order to provide for continuity and stability in the leadership shareholders funds at the year end was 38.5% of the Company, the Board requested me to become Chairman Over the last six years the Group has achieved compound as well as Chief Executive.
I am very honoured to have been increase in earnings per share of 36%, profit before tax of charged with this responsibility but I intend to relinquish my 34% and dividends of 29% role as Chief Executive in due course.
Simon Purser, Senior McCarthy & Stone was voted Best National Builder Non-Executive Director, was appointed Non-Executive Deputy in the 2003 Daily Express British Housebuilder Awards Chairman.
As previously announced, I am very pleased that Jamie Results Overview Stevenson has agreed to join the Board as a Non-Executive While the financial year 2002 03 started strongly with high levels Director with effect from 10 November 2003.
Jamie, aged 54, of enquiries, visitors and net reservations, there was some was Head of Research at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein uncertainty as to how long the strength of the market would last.
1997-2003 and for nine years, 1984-1997, he was ranked the In the event, we delivered an excellent half year to 28 February No.
1 Analyst covering Housebuilders, Building Materials and 2003 with profit before tax up by 80%.
Prior to that he was Economic Advisor During the second half the market returned to more sustainable to the House Builders Federation and Economics Director for levels.
There was some slowdown associated with the Iraq war the Building Employers Confederation.
We look forward to and political and economic uncertainties.
Nonetheless, the benefiting from his considerable knowledge and experience.
overall results we have produced for the full year are outstanding with Group pre-tax profits for the year up by 54%.
Staff, customer care and suppliers We had another good year for land acquisition, acquiring On behalf of the Board, I wish to express our enormous approximately 2,750 units and we have also done well in terms thanks to all our employees for their exceptional efforts over of securing planning consents, although the planning process has the year.
We have broken through, decisively, the 100m not improved.
pre-tax profits threshold with profits up by over 50%.
These results have only been achieved by the outstanding During the year we were subject to some delays in construction commitment, energy and enthusiasm of our staff.
starts, principally planning related, which caused us to fall a little short on our build programme but we look forward to I am very pleased that with these outstanding results our staff improving our building output through the current financial year.
are able to share in the Groups success through the various I would have thought private sheltered housing increases market choice and in terms of housing facilities youd actually release housing.
When elderly people move home they are probably releasing three bedroomed semi detached houses in fairly good areas of the city.
People would presumably be trading down so it would release a stock of family accommodation.
McCarthy & Stone plc Page 5 McCarthy & Stone plc Chairmans Statement incentive arrangements we operate.
I can report that we continue to have a very high level of participation in our SAYE and SIP Company share ownership schemes.
As we continue to develop and grow the business we are steadily increasing our staff numbers and offering more opportunities for employment, career development and promotion.
Across all staff grades we demonstrate, for the industry, low levels of staff turnover and at senior management grades we maintain a very high level of staff retention.
We have been recognised for our commitment to Customer Care and we constantly seek to re-emphasise the importance of excellent customer relations both internally and to our consultants, suppliers and sub-contractors.
We are always very dependant upon the quality and contribution of our suppliers, sub-contractors and consultants and, once again, I would wish to thank them for their support in achieving our goals.
Our long standing annual award scheme demonstrates our commitment to this area.
Prospects The Group continues to focus on its core niche of retirement housing.
We serve a growing, ageing sector where it is estimated by 2020 that there will be over 12 million people in In the South East, the sales lead was lower reflecting an over the UK over the age of 65, almost 1 in 5 of the population.
achievement in last year and, consequently, lower stock levels.
This is a 28% increase on the current 9.4 million people of Overall, we do not anticipate volumes in the first half to match that age.
The elderly population for whom we provide for has those of the very strong first half last year.
grown more affluent and a greater proportion have become homeowners in the last twenty years.
We maintain a Sales releases will come on stream in the second half following significant market share with comfortably over 60% of this, the increased planning achievements and build starts at the mainly needs based, specialist private home-owner market end of the year.
These will provide the finished stock levels to that we serve.
All these factors should underpin our push through volumes again for the year end.
performance over the longer term.
We will continue to seek to drive volumes and pricing forward We note that the rate of house price increases is slowing to a to support our outstanding profit performance but we remain more sustainable long term level.
This process makes the conscious, however, that the trend in interest rates is now likelihood of a sharper correction in house prices less likely.
The economic fundamentals of low inflation, low interest We have a well-bought and well-located land bank that should rates, the deficit in housing supply and high levels of deliver us sustainable long term growth.
The Board looks employment remain in place.
Whilst there is some evidence forward to McCarthy & Stone demonstrating its capabilities in that housing transaction times are extending and the volume what are likely to be more testing trading conditions in the of transactions is slipping, the market should remain stable year ahead.
and the overall outlook for housebuilders is favourable.
The Group maintains a very strong cash position and has repaid since the year end 22.2m, 8.75% Preference Shares.
The Group is well placed to consider repurchasing the Companys shares in certain circumstances.
McCarthy & Stone started the new financial year with a stronger Keith Lovelock level of forward sales in the North than last year.
Chairman & Chief Executive Page 6 McCarthy & Stone plc
