Group at a glance Mitchells & Butlers know-how Our proven expertise at every level, combined with a pub estate of exceptional quality in prime locations, continues to deliver on our strategy of driving profitable volume growth and creating shareholder value.
Consumer relevance and format evolution Increasing property values Know-how Value and volume strategy Our people Increasing property values Our people Value and volume strategy Consumer relevance and Through the successful Key to the successful operation of Our operational strategy is to focus format evolution implementation of our operational our pubs is our ability to recruit, train on value and volume: improving the We strive to anticipate, identify and and investment strategy we are able and retain the best people.
We offer value we offer our customers leads respond to changing demographic to generate further uplifts in asset comprehensive training, so to higher volumes and improved profiles and consumer expectations values within our high quality freehold experience is not essential: however productivity.
These gains, along with by evolving our brands and formats.
estate for the benefit of shareholders.
personality and a passion for better purchasing terms, enable us customer service are critical.
to reduce costs and then reinvest the margin gains in further quality and value.
Acquired Sites pg 11 Cask ale training pg 11 Pub & Carvery pg 9 Sizzling Pub Co. pg 9 2 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review Positioned for success Residential High Street With 3% of the pubs in the UK, we have The majority of our pubs have prime We have successfully evolved our brands a 10% share of pub market sales.
This locations in residential areas and are and formats on the High Street over a has been achieved through a strategic therefore well positioned to take number of years and this has continued positioning of the estate to attractive advantage of the growth in eating-out as to bear fruit, seeing strong growth in a areas of the market, which has driven well as increasing our drinks market share.
our growth, particularly in food.
of main meals sold per annum 1998: 41m 3.1% 3.0% same outlet like-for-like sales growth same outlet like-for-like sales growth Growth and investment Investments in FY 2007 Our market We have invested a total of 253m in our The pub market is estimated to be worth pubs over the year.
This has enabled us over 19bn per annum.
It has benefited to develop, evolve and maintain our high over the last ten years from the growth quality estate, with significant returns on in the popularity of eating-out, with Existing Sites investment, whilst further improving our approximately a third of total household Acquired Sites relative value proposition in light of the New Acquisitions food expenditure now made outside the under-investment in the overall on-trade home.
This is in contrast to the more pub market.
traditional pub market of draught beer, which has declined, down 27% in volume since 1998.
Against this background, our strategy 1.1bn has proved exceptionally successful, Over 1.1bn UK expansionary driving market share gains in all key investment over the last 16 years categories.
Profitable market share gains 20% Food 6% 20% return on investments in the 3% core estate over the last two years Wine & 1% soft drinks -2% 20% Spirits -1% c. 20% sales uplift from -4% converted Acquired Sites Beer & 0% Excludes the Acquired Sites cider -4% MAB same outlet like-for-like volume growth White Webbs The Flask Estimated market volume growth Toby Carvery, Metro Professionals, based on BBPA AC Neilsen ONS Enfield Highgate, London Mitchells & Butlers 3 Annual report and accounts 2007
