Redrow at a glance Redrow trades from 10 regional housing companies, managing in excess of 100 housing developments across England, Scotland and Wales, completing c. 5,000 new homes annually.
Redrow has the capacity to undertake mixed use developments and through Redrow Regeneration focuses on developing flexible partnerships with stakeholders to deliver situation specific mixed use solutions that support and encourage new and sustainable communities.
The Group provides direct employment to approximately 1,300 people and many more through its relationships with subcontractors and suppliers.
Redrow is listed on the London Stock Exchange Ticker: RDW in the Household Goods sector and in the FTSE 250.
Product portfolio Owned Land Bank with planning plots Homes Owned Land Bank with planning 17,700 plots Signature Representing our primary offering to our customers, with one bedroom apartments to five bedroom luxury houses, the Signature range provides styles that allow for flexibility in their elevational treatments to ensure they blend harmoniously with the local environment.
In the City High specification apartment living.
Visionary and cutting-edge schemes that provide accommodation for those wanting a contemporary lifestyle.
Debut Ranging from one bedroom apartments to two storey homes: via the use of modern methods of construction and state of the art materials, we are creating handsome and 07 03 04 05 06 sustainable homes and communities affordable to the first time For more information on our land bank, please turn to page 14. buyer.
Mixed Use & Regeneration Residential v. Mixed Use and Regeneration Operating Profit Mixed Use Our residential and commercial development expertise allows us to unlock mixed use opportunities, creating 1 2 homes, office, retail, industrial and leisure schemes that respond to planning requirements and satisfy occupier demand.
1 Residential 95% Urban Regeneration Through the dynamic and flexible 2 Mixed Use and Regeneration 5% partnerships we create with stakeholders, we are able to successfully tackle major regeneration schemes that provide Product Portfolio - % of business Homes Turnover sustainable solutions and community benefits to the most demanding of inner-city challenges.
