Rexam at a glance Our vision Rexam is a leading global consumer packaging Our vision is to be the leading global consumer packaging company.
company, consistently delivering profitable growth and margin improvement year on year.
We are business partners to many of the worlds most In doing so we will be the partner of choice for our customers, famous and successful consumer brands as well as the company of choice for investors and the employer of choice young, entrepreneurial start ups.
Our strategy We offer a broad range of packaging products and We aim to deliver this vision by focusing on ever better packaging solutions for many consumer facing industries, using solutions and outstanding product innovation for our customers: reinforcing our positions in carefully chosen segments and the right different materials and technologies.
geographic markets, growing organically or by acquisition within these segments: leading the industry in terms of execution and The packaging we manufacture is often key to operational excellence, whilst operating to the highest standards maintaining and reinforcing our customers reputation of safety, and recognising and rewarding our people.
It plays a major role in our customers positioning strategies, helping to shape consumers brand experiences.
Beverage Cans 70% Plastic Packaging 30% of underlying operating profit 2007 of underlying operating profit 2007 Rexam is the worlds number 1 beverage can maker.
Plastic Packaging is focused primarily on the value added and faster growing segments of rigid plastic packaging.
It includes The cans are used for a wide array of beverages, including beer, pharmaceutical packaging, closures for beverages and personal carbonated soft drinks, juices, sports and energy drinks, water, wine, care applications and packaging for cosmetics, home and personal spirit mixers and iced tea and coffee.
care products as well as food.
Our Beverage Cans business is essentially a regional business The businesses represent a global capability and are united operating on a global scale.
In general our plants are located by shared customers, common injection moulding and other close to our customers to minimise logistics costs.
technologies and a focus on intellectual property, innovation and operational excellence.
Products include spray samplers, lipstick and mascara cases, compacts, closures for fragrances, lotions and beverages, fine mist and foam pumps, food containers and drug delivery devices.
2 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Our geographic markets Sales by destination from continuing operations 2007 Rexam is headquartered in London, UK.
We have around 100 plants in more than 20 countries around the world.
In 2007, we US employed on average 22,300 people in our continuing operations, Other Europe almost a quarter of whom were in China and South East Asia.
Brazil Full details of our employee numbers can be found on page 85 and UK further details of our locations can be found on www.
France Germany Rest of world 2006 2007 restated m m US 1,450 1,328 Other Europe 997 901 Brazil 361 336 UK 195 198 France 162 150 Germany 107 88 Rest of world 339 300 3,611 3,301 Rexam global locations Rexam Annual Report 2007 3
