02 03 SSL at a glance a world of brands SSL is a focused consumer brand company with leading global brands Durex and Scholl plus a diverse portfolio of local brands.
We operate in over 35 countries worldwide and sell into over 100 different markets.
Our business is managed in three commercial divisionsEurope, Asia Pacific and the Americas.
Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream Durex Play Wand Durex Play Vibrations Scholl Moisturising Mousse Durex Pleasuremax Scholl Party Feet Syndol and Scholl footwear 3 5 2 4 1 3 1 2 Sales by geography Sales by brand 1 Europe 78% 1 Durex 39% 2 Asia Pacific 16% 2 Scholl footcare 21% 3 Americas 6% 3 Scholl footwear 14% 4 Locally owned brands 15% 5 Others 1 1% Durex continues to move forward Specialist, scientific and SSLs range of local brands with its vision of becoming the insightful, Scholl footcare products continues to play an important part worlds number one authority on and footwear ranges recognise in achieving our operating profit sexual wellbeing and is dedicated to that taking care of peoples feet objectives by improving overall inspiring people to have better sex.
contributes to improving their sales and distribution efficiencies.
Durex condoms with over 30 per cent In the UK, the over-the-counter OTC of the global branded condom market, Scholl footcareby listening to product portfolio includes an adult oral making it the number one condom consumers to understand their needs analgesic range Cuprofen, Paramol brand in the world, Durex condoms and developing new products to meet and Syndol as well as a range of cough continue to go from strength to strength these needs, Scholl footcare continues and cold remedies such as Meltus cough with new product introductions such as its programme of consumer-led mixture and the childrens analgesic, Durex Tingle and Durex Pleasuremax.
Recent additions to the Medised.
In Italy, the local brand product range are Cracked Heel Repair portfolio includes Mister Baby, a range Durex Play lubricantsdesigned to Creamclinically proven to soothe of mother and baby products, and enhance peoples sex lives by increasing and rehydrate cracked heels within Sauber, a range of hosiery and other lubrication, the range is widened to seven daysand Freeze Verruca & beauty products.
include lubricants with warming and Wart Remover based on the latest tingling sensations.
Durex Play devicesa range of Scholl  sold personal massagers, including the new in pharmacies throughout Europe to Durex Play Vibrationsan innovative help solve foot and back problems vibrating ringare designed to help with the core styles of Pescura, Adapta people have happier, healthier and and Gelactiv, the footwear range is more fulfilling sex lives.
expanding in a limited number of high street retailers in partnership with leading designer, Diego Dolcini.
