Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information TNS at a glance TNS is a global market information and insight group.
We help our clients to make more effective business decisions.
We call it the sixth sense of business.
We provide a full range of market information services Syndicated Each of our syndicated services has a market-leading position.
Syndicated 25.3% They frequently provide the benchmark measurement and industry standard in their markets.
TNS maintains its leading Custom 74.7% position through innovation and investment.
Custom TNS is the worlds largest provider of customised market information and analysis.
Our competitive advantage derives from the combination of our global network, in-depth industry sector understanding and world-class research expertise.
1,067.7m TNS revenue 2007 Where we operate A global leader Regional revenue % TNS operates from offices in 80 countries.
Europe 65 UK 15 France 14 Rest of Europe 36 North America 19 ALM 16 6.3% TNS revenue growth 2007 www.
com Syndicated TNS Worldpanel Josep Montserrat Client overview Over 500 clients around the world base business decisions on TNS Worldpanel information.
They include global and local consumer brand companies, retailers, private label manufacturers, fresh food suppliers, advertising and media agencies and market analysts.
Information collection Data is collected on a regular cycle using technology matched to the development of each market, including bar code and till receipt scanners, internet, SMS text messaging and diary.
Services TNS Worldpanel operates continuous consumer panels that measure TNS insight and track household and individual purchasing and consumption Consumer panel specialists interpret the data to provide clients behaviour.
When linked with customised insights from TNS Consumer with essential insights into consumer and shopper behaviour.
and our retail and shopper expertise, they provide an unparalleled We help clients understand how people shop and how to attract understanding of the consumer and the consumer packaged customers to their products.
Based on these findings, we advise goods marketplace.
on the opportunities and implications for marketing strategies, promotion and branding.
Through its own panels in 30 countries and strategic alliances covering a further 25, TNS Worldpanel is the worlds largest provider of consumer purchasing information.
TNS Media Jean-Michel Portier Client overview TNS Media has over 16,000 clients advertising agencies, broadcasters and platform operators, on and off-line advertisers, new media, PR and media planning agencies, publishers, government departments and NGOs, as well as international and local companies.
Information collection Patented systems capture commercials, monitor websites and track visual and verbal brand appearances on broadcast and cable programming.
High-capacity digital scanners harvest Services electronic images from publications.
TNS Media is a leading provider of strategic media intelligence and audience measurement.
In audience measurement, at-home viewing is measured by TNS PeopleMeters.
We have pioneered the use of the Arbitron We track 96 per cent of advertising expenditure worldwide, supplying Personal People Meter for mobile measurement of TV and radio the industry standard for competitive advertising information.
Through our expertise in return path data analysis, monitor over three million brands across all media print, TV, radio, TNS has developed the capability of processing data, overnight, internet, social, cinema and outdoors.
Our analysis of social media from more than one million households in a single market.
is based on tracking 70 million blogs, message boards and social networks.
We provide monitoring and public relations evaluation TNS insight services.
TNS is the market leader in 24 countries, where we offer TNS Media offers a full range of insights and analysis into the changing instant access, web-based services.
media landscape, including advertising expenditure and creation monitoring, news monitoring and sports sponsorship evaluation.
TNS Media operates audience measurement services in 34 countries including Russia, Spain and the US.
In China, we operate the worlds TNS audience measurement and analysis is used to negotiate prices largest continuous TV audience measurement panel.
TNS has set the for commercial airtime, evaluate the success of programmes, plan standard in electronic measurement of media audience behaviour, advertising campaigns and devise future programming schedules.
using xed and portable metering technology and return path data Through return path data services, we provide a total picture of the from set top boxes.
consumers viewing experience in the digital environment.
Analysis is delivered via TNS proprietary software, Infosys, with 6,000 users in 18 countries.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information TNS at a glance Custom Global Clients and Sectors setting the strategy TNS Global Clients and Sectors operates Global Accounts across the custom business, with teams Our Global Account Programme covers of sector specialists, to meet the needs of 50 of TNS top clients.
our clients locally, regionally and globally.
We develop strong partnerships with A structure is in place to ensure that we these clients, providing them with meet clients demands for greater insights, dedicated account teams who co-ordinate deeper relationships, innovation and global a global service, tailored to individual client capabilities.
It is used to co-ordinate needs.
This is based on a solid thinking and develop industry sectorunderstanding of their business driven strategies for implementation requirements, combined with TNS across the regions.
Pedro Ros Regions flawless implementation TNS has the industrys most extensive strategies for each of our Global Sectors.
possible service from TNS, whatever custom research network and ranks The regions use their local knowledge and their size and requirements.
access to TNS global network to provide this, each country ofce can call on the clients with information and insight on a groups leading industry sector and Our custom operations are divided into country, regional or global basis.
They have access to three geographic regions.
These form a highly efficient operational infrastructure the base from which we serve our Our regional teams are focused on and can use the most effective methods clients and implement consistent ensuring that clients receive the best of data collection, analysis and delivery.
Areas of Expertise world-leading solutions In a world where our clients are seeking Brand & Communications more insight and analysis, specialist services help clients build their brands through research knowledge is key.
Through every stage of the brand experience, from our Areas of Expertise, TNS is building development to implementation of strategy.
on its world-leading range of products TNS also tracks the success of brands and and services to provide clients with communications in the marketplace, with a innovative solutions to the challenges view to optimising brand performance and they face in fast-changing markets.
Regional teams can access this expertise, Retail & Shopper provides insight about in-store and shopper to deliver actionable insight to clients behaviour for manufacturers and retailers.
These insights can be used to improve equity, sales and profitability of a brand or category John Abraham through merchandising, store layout, pricing and promotions, as well as in-store communications.
com Global Sectors Our aim is to be recognised as the global leader Automotive Healthcare in each of our six sectors.
We believe that TNS Rmy Pothet Elaine Riddell sector-based approach is unique within our industry.
In each sector, world-leading industry experts work together to meet client demand for market information with actionable business Political & Social Consumer insights.
They achieve this by combining their Leendert fide Voogd Stephen Factor knowledge of the issues that drive their clients businesses with TNS extensive research expertise.
Finance Technology Global Sector Heads use their understanding Sam Thayer Matthew Froggatt and experience of these issues to develop sector strategies and innovative new services.
Europe North America Asia, Latin America, Middle East & Africa Judith Passingham Pedro Ros James Hall Product Development & Innovation Stakeholder Management Customer Intelligence enables clients to identify new opportunities, helps clients measure and monitor their provides insight based on analysis of evaluate whether an idea justifies investment, performance and relationships with multiple data sets, combining behavioural discover how to make a concept more various stakeholder groups.
It provides information at an individual or household appealing, optimise the product mix and understanding of factors affecting levels level.
This delivers insight about our clients forecast potential sales volumes.
It covers of satisfaction, retention and motivation customers in areas such as customer the product development process from idea among customers and employees.
TRI M, profitability, defection risk and propensity generation, early stage screening, concept the main TNS solution in this area, offers to buy.
Fusing this with TNS information and product optimisation through to volumetric actionable recommendations to boards such as usage and attitudes can then be forecasting and post-launch evaluation.
used to drive more tailored marketing.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
