qxp:Layout 1 17 3 08 18:00 Page 2 Directors Report Business Review 2 Group at a glance BG Group is a rapidly growing global energy business with interests in 27 countries across five continents.
BG Group is engaged in the Exploration and exploration, development, Production E&P production, transmission, BG Group explores for, develops, distribution and supply of produces and markets gas and oil natural gas.
The Group also around the world.
Around 70% of 2007 has a number of power production was gas.
The Group uses its technical, commercial and gas chain generation business interests.
skills to deliver projects at competitive Gas reserves often require cost and to maximise the sales value complex chains of physical of its hydrocarbons.
infrastructure and commercial agreements to deliver the gas to markets.
BG Group has proven skills and experience in creating value from these chains.
Liquefied Natural Gas LNG LNG is gas that has been cooled to a liquid form to make it easier to transport.
BG Groups LNG activities combine liquefaction and regasication facilities with the purchasing, shipping and sale of LNG.
Business Review BG Groups Business Review is set out on pages 2 to 45 of this Report.
UK company law requires the Board of Directors to produce a Business Transmission and Review in which the Board provides Distribution T&D a fair review of the business of the BG Groups T&D activities are focused Group and a description of the in fast-growing markets, developing principal risks and uncertainties both markets and infrastructure for it faces.
Particular care should be the delivery of gas.
taken when assessing elements of this Business Review that relate to future developments and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Whilst the Board Power Generation has made every effort to identify, disclose and explain such matters, A large proportion of the worldwide it cannot predict all events or demand for gas is attributable to circumstances that will actually power generation.
BG Group develops, affect the Group in the future.
owns and operates gas-red power Please also refer to the Legal Notice on page 141. generation plants.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW BG061 p02-03 vAW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 08 18:02 Page 3 3 BG Group manages its business segments on an integrated regional basis.
Europe and Central Asia 1 2 Americas and Global LNG 3 Africa, Middle East and Asia Main markets and activities Key events in 2007 Business Performance Exploration drilling success in BG Groups high-performing E&P business Total operating profit is the centre of gravity for the Group.
Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Norway, E&P volumes were 604 000 barrels Thailand and the UK of oil equivalent per day in 2007.
2 387m 2007 Signed Gas Sales Agreement to The E&P business is expected to have facilitate Karachaganak Phase III maintained its top quartile performance a in nding and development costs and Successful expansion of Tapti gas 2 457m 2006 a unit operating costs per boe in 2007. eld in India Production: Bolivia: Canada: Egypt: Start-up of Buzzard eld in the UK India: Kazakhstan: Thailand: Trinidad and Tobago: Tunisia: UK.
BG Group has an industry-leading Record LNG volumes and Total operating profit portfolio of LNG assets, delivering operating profit cargoes to nine out of the worlds Sanctioned Quintero LNG import 17 importing nations in 2007.
521m 2007 terminal, Chile Liquefaction: Egypt: Trinidad and Tobago.
ong-term LNG supply: Egypt: Equatorial Signed Sale and Purchase L 352m 2006 Guinea: Nigeria: Trinidad and Tobago.
Agreement for 2.25 mtpa LNG Regasification: Elba Island and Lake from Nigeria LNG Train 7 Charles, USA: Dragon LNG, UK: Quintero LNG, Chile: Brindisi LNG, Italy.
The Groups T&D businesses are focused Continued strong growth in Total operating profit on high-growth developing markets in customer numbers, volumes Brazil and India.
and profit Transmission and distribution: 247m 2007 Expansion of distribution network Brazil: India.
in So Paulo and Gujarat 231m 2006 BG Group has a 4.3 GW portfolio of Acquired two US power plants Total operating profit mostly gas-red power generation.
Increased holding in Italian Power: Italy: Malaysia: Philippines: power operation to 100% UK: USA.
106m 2006 For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82. a See definitions, page 141.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
