Business highlights Caledonias investment style and Kerzner International philosophy differentiates us from The year started with the announcement, in April, of a managementboth mainstream equity investors led buyout of Kerzner International, the worldwide hotel and casino operator in which we held a residual 8% stake.
Our original and traditional fund managers.
investment was made in 1994, when we backed Sol Kerzner, the We use our capital, allied to our founder of Sun International, in his acquisition and development of Paradise Island in the Caribbean as a world class destination resort.
experience and reputation, to back Sun International was listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1996 and later changed its name to Kerzner International.
Throughout our and support management teams period of ownership we were represented on the board.
We were to develop their businesses, whether therefore able to play a pivotal role in the evaluation and eventual success of the MBO approach and work with the various parties to as listed or private companies.
This ensure a realisation of our second biggest investment at an attractive flexible approach, together with our valuation of 131m thus realising over the years some 216m from a gross investment of 43m.
This brought a long and productive long term investment horizon and association with Sol Kerzner, the founder, to a fruitful conclusion.
supportive stance, are the hallmarks of Caledonia and, as the following business highlights of the year illustrate, can generate good returns and create interesting investment opportunities.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 17 Business review Caledonias approach and reputation delivers Business highlights results to both vendors and management teams through investment in people businesses.
TGE Gas Engineering Ermitage In May, we completed the management buyout of TGE Gas In May, we invested 22.1m for a 60% stake in Ermitage, a Engineering, a German based turn-key engineering business, well-established Jersey-based hedge fund management business.
The business was acquired from Ermitage had been put up for sale by its South African parent Tractebel Engineering, part of the Suez Group, to whom it had but, with an existing agreed sale stalled, we were able to offer become non-core.
We were attracted by the quality of the the vendors an alternative transaction.
This was achieved through management team, who have spent twenty years together building quickly establishing a good rapport with the management who the business, and by the growth prospects for energy infrastructure recognised our credentials and track record in backing successful investment that will drive TGEs performance.
Our focus on asset managers.
We have already helped the development of the relationships, long term perspective and experience with mid-size business, which manages $2.8bn, through providing additional companies were key attractions of Caledonia to both management capital to invest in funds managed by Ermitage.
Since investment we have provided a further 10.8m Since making our investment, Ermitage has been successful to support the growth of the business.
in winning a $120m contract from one of the worlds largest pension funds.
18 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 Caledonia can invest in both listed and private companies but above all backs management to grow their businesses.
Our longer term view means that it is not necessary to promote an IPO, trade sale or public to private transaction as an exit before this optimises shareholder value.
Celerant Incisive Media Another management-led buyout, which also completed in May, In December, Incisive Media plc, a UK listed business publisher, was our acquisition of a 49% stake in Celerant Consulting at a total was taken private through a management buyout financed by cost of 15.9m.
Celerant is a global management consulting Apax Partners.
Having first invested in Incisive Media in April 2004, business which specialises in delivering operational efficiencies we were keen to continue to back the management team as we and savings to its worldwide clients, especially in the chemical and shared their view that it would be better to grow the business energy sectors.
Celerant was sold as a non-core asset by Novell, a through acquisitions as a private equity backed company with the US listed software services group, which was keen to ensure that benefit of higher gearing.
We therefore worked with the company, the transaction proceeded at an acceptable price but with a high management and the bidder, together with their advisers, to ensure degree of certainty.
Caledonia was attractive to the management that all Incisive Media shareholders were offered an opportunity as a long term partner and we were able to reassure Novell that we to roll over their investment through a share alternative offered could complete the transaction with certainty at the agreed price.
We are delighted to continue, alongside Apax and management, as an investor in Incisive Media with board representation and look forward to the opportunity to put more capital to work in the business as it makes further acquisitions.
Two such acquisitions have already been completed since December.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 19
