02 Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Our Business at a Glance Abcam plc is a producer and distributor Where we operate of research-grade antibodies and Abcam plc is headquartered associated products.
We have Our vision is to build the largest online a US office in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and have catalogue of the best antibodies in recently opened an office the world.
We deliver In the UK, we recently completed We produce our own antibodies and We distribute Abcam products across construction of a new high-throughput source other excellent antibodies from the world using our fully automated production HTP laboratory that will institutes, academic laboratories and web-enabled stock-management broaden our portfolio of high-margin primary manufacturers.
Our size means that we can products developed in-house.
We invest in state-of-the-art storage and continue to benefit from close links to Established in 1998, Abcam now has an handling facilities, which have enabled the University of Cambridge, from which online catalogue of over 25,000 antibodies us to speed up shipping times and a large number of our PhD recruits and 8,000 related products such as increase our output.
A growing operate at high levels of efficiency, percentage of our products are produced with lower handling costs.
Our US office has made a substantial in-house and investment in a new high contribution to sales since it was opened throughput facility will see this increase Customers can directly access the website four years ago.
Over the last 12 months substantially in the future.
Other products to find the status of their orders so they can we have improved service to our US are supplied by more than 200 leading OEM plan their experiments more effectively.
customers by extending opening times partners and sold under the Abcam brand.
We support and introducing Saturday working.
We add value Our products come with an Abpromise, The opening of our Japanese office in Our scientists have built a catalogue giving customers the reassurance of December 2006 reflects our determination of the best antibodies in the world and knowing that: to expand in East Asia, one of the fastestthey provide technical support on all Our antibodies are of the highest quality growing antibody markets in the world.
of our products to help our customers and are backed up by an expert technical With a physical presence in Tokyo, we achieve results.
team, who are available to assist in initial are radically improving the quality of the The unique relationship Abcam has with product selection.
service we provide to customers in the scientists who use our products means Customers can, at any time, contact the region.
that we can obtain a wide range of testing other customers using the same antibody SM data from their feedback and enquiries.
via our unique Abreviews system.
We publish this information in the form of If, after optimisation, any product does SM Abreviews, which support the purchasing not perform as described on the decisions of researchers looking for datasheet, customers can contact our reagents.
Taken across the catalogue, expert team to ask for advice and regions average unit sales continue to increase assistance.
the longer they have been in our catalogue, In the unlikely event that a product is 3 a trend we attribute in part to the sheer faulty, we will replace or provide a full We operate in the worlds three quantity of product information we are refund if reported within 120 days main markets able to gather and publish over time.
Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Abcam plc 03 Where we operate USA Europe Japan The US is Abcams largest market, In Europe our renewed focus on It is still early days for our Japanese accounting for over 50% of sales last marketing has propelled a 58.8% business but we are delighted with year.
This is the largest market in the year-on-year increase in the volume its performance to date, which saw world and we have recently launched a of business.
Our virtual offices are sales in the second half of the year of new sales and marketing programme promoting the use of French and 160m 680k.
We have also recently to further drive sales growth.
German so that many European launched a Japanese version of our customers can now contact us directly website.
M M M $960 $525 $175 Estimated US market in 2006 Estimated European market in 2006 Estimated Japanese market in 2006
