02 GROUP AT A GLANCE Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 DELIVERING INTERNATIONALLY We have facilities in 23 countries across four business areas: North America, UK & Ireland, Continental Europe and Rest of the World.
We also source products from many other countries.
We are continually developing our global network to ensure the best service for our customers and a thorough understanding of their markets.
In early 2008 we entered the growing Brazilian market.
NORTH AMERICA 48% of Group operating profit 123.3m Operating profit, a rise of 2% at constant exchange rates.
Pat Larmon President and CEO North America Against a background of more difficult business conditions in the United States in 2007, our results once again moved forward with growth in both dollar revenue and profits.
UK & IRELAND James Cunningham Managing Director UK & Ireland Operational initiatives, good organic growth and the exciting 29% acquisitions we have made of Group operating profit in both the UK and Ireland contributed to a substantial increase in our results.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 GROUP AT A GLANCE 03 CONTINENTAL EUROPE Frank van Zanten Managing Director Continental Europe Strong organic growth, especially 19% in central Europe, acquisitions of Group operating profit to consolidate the Netherlands and to enter Belgium and Spain and efficiency gains across the region resulted in another 50.0m successful year.
Operating profit, a rise of 21% at constant exchange rates.
Brian May Finance Director Celia Baxter Director of Group Human Resources REST OF THE WORLD Michael Roney 4% Chief Executive of Group operating profit 10.8m Operating profit, a rise of 10% at constant exchange rates.
Paul Hussey General Counsel and Kim Hetherington Company Secretary Managing Director Australasia The full year impact of acquisitions made in 2006 and strong organic growth across the region have helped us produce another good performance with double digit increases Nancy Lester in both revenue and profits.
Director of Corporate Development Before intangible amortisation and corporate costs
