Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Man Group plc Sugar Quay Man Group plc is a leading global provider of Lower Thames Street alternative investment products and solutions as London EC3R 6DU T: 020 7144 1000 well as one of the worlds largest futures brokers.
F: 020 7144 1923 The Group employs over 4,500 people in 16 countries, with key centres in London, Pfffikon Switzerland, Chicago and New York.
Man Group plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange EMG and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index.
Man Investments, the Asset Management division, Man Financial, the Brokerage division, is one of is a global leader in the fast growing alternative the worlds leading providers of brokerage services.
It provides access for private It acts as a broker of futures, options and other and institutional investors worldwide to hedge funds equity derivatives for both institutional and private and other alternative investment strategies through clients and as an intermediary in the worlds metals, a range of products and solutions designed to deliver energy and foreign exchange markets with offices absolute returns with a low correlation to equity and in key financial centres.
Man Investments has a 20-year track record in this field, supported by Performance strong product development and structuring skills, and an extensive investor service and global distribution network.
com Annual Report 2007 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Man Group plc Sugar Quay Man Group plc is a leading global provider of Lower Thames Street alternative investment products and solutions as London EC3R 6DU T: 020 7144 1000 well as one of the worlds largest futures brokers.
com Annual Report 2007 Man Group Asset Management Worldwide Man Investments Offices United Kingdom 01 London Switzerland 01 02 Pfffikon United States 07 11 12 03 Chicago 04 New York Australia 03 04 02 05 Sydney Japan 14 06 06 Tokyo Canada 09 07 Toronto Middle East 08 Dubai & Bahrain 08 10 Asia 09 Hong Kong 10 Singapore Other Europe 11 Dublin 12 Guernsey Uruguay 13 Montevideo Bahamas 14 Bahamas 13 05 Design and Production: The Smiths Partnership LLP.
United Kingdom investment products in Europe, and Pemba.
Australia Canada Asia, including Hong Kong, Singapore, Uruguay Man Investments in London is the centre for All global distribution activity is directed from Man Investments Australia, based in Sydney, Man Investments launched its Canadian Malaysia, Indonesia, Taiwan and Korea.
Man Investments in Montevideo is the Printing: Royle Corporate Print, a carbon neutral the investment management teams for AHL, Switzerland.
Swiss based teams there cover: is a regional leader in structuring, marketing operation in July 2006.
Based in Toronto, It is also the regional base for new manager regional sales office for Central and South printing company.
and Man Global Strategies and provides sales, product structuring and financing and administering strategic investments that the office offers a wide range of alternative search and selection for Man Global Strategies.
research and analysis for the RMF investment and legal, marketing communications, offer diversification from traditional investments investment products specifically created for RMF opened its office in Singapore in The cover and front section of this report is printed on management team in Switzerland.
The intermediary services, IT, finance, product in stocks, property and bond markets.
The small team is focused Bahamas paper consisting of 50% recycled fibre.
The virgin paper is made from Totally Chlorine Free wood pulp and PEFC London based sales teams support management, HR, and administration Investments has been involved in Australia on identifying new manager stragegies Man Investments in the Bahamas is the Certified with independent assurance that the paper is institutional relationships and other investor logistics.
Middle East and opportunities in Asia Pacific, and also administration function for all RMF products.
channels in the UK and neighbouring Man Investments has a Middle East regional supporting the institutional sales teams in countries.
London also provides product United States Japan office based in Dubai supported by a satellite the region.
The Financial Statements section of this report is printed support services and non-German European Man Investments has teams based in Man Investments has been in Japan nearly office in Bahrain.
The two offices offer on paper made from Elementally Chlorine Free wood distribution.
The London office is also New York and Chicago.
It provides alternative investment products and services to private and Other Europe pulps acquired from sustainable forests.
headquarters for Man Group plc and houses office is home to Glenwood, our leading products to private investors, pension funds institutional investors in the Middle East region.
Man Investments office in Dublin provides Man Group management.
US alternative investment fund of funds and financial institutions through distributors administration services to our fund products.
manager, product support services and such as banks, securities brokers, and Asia The Guernsey office provides a wide range Switzerland our North American distribution operations.
discretionary investment managers across Man Investments Hong Kong office is of fiduciary and investment fund services, both Man Investments in Pfffikon has three The New York office houses RMF teams, the region.
a regional hub responsible for sales and to the fund products and to Group entities.
different offices and is home to RMF one product structuring and financing, and legal.
marketing across South East and North of the leading providers of alternative
