Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 05 Net client cash flows were strong and, coupled with superior investment performance, resulted in growth in funds under management of 18%.
Financial highlights Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit Net client cash flows Funds under management bn IFRS basis m EEV basis m bn 1,624 1,687 279 1,621 23.4 1,459 11% -4% 5% 1 8% 22.3 237 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 Adjusted operating earnings Adjusted operating earnings Basic earnings per share Final dividend IFRS basis p per share IFRS basis p per share EEV basis p p 16.9 17.8 19.2 4.55 17.2 15.1 12% -3% 13% 4.15 1 0% 17.0 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 Wherever the items asterisked in the highlights are used, whether in the Chief Executives review or the Group Finance Directors report, the following definitions apply: For long-term and general insurance business, adjusted operating profit is based on a long-term investment return, includes investment returns on life funds investments in Group equity and debt instruments and is stated net of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
For the US Asset Management business it includes compensation costs in respect of certain long-term incentive schemes defined as minority interests in accordance with IFRS.
For all businesses, adjusted operating profit excludes goodwill impairment, the impact of acquisition accounting, revaluations of put options related to long-term incentive schemes, the impact of closure of unclaimed shares trusts, profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments, dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities and fair value profits losses on certain Group debt movements.
Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share is calculated on the same basis as adjusted operating profit.
It is stated after tax attributable to adjusted operating profit and minority interests.
It excludes income attributable to Black Economic Empowerment BEE trusts of listed subsidiaries.
The calculation of the adjusted weighted average number of shares includes own shares held in policyholders funds and BEE trusts.
Numbers for currencies other than Sterling are translated at average rate for profit and loss items and at closing rates for year-end balances.
Overview Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 06 Building a premier international savings and wealth management business Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 07 We are building a premier international savings and wealth management business 1Gathering assets 2Managing assets 3Delivering returns Understanding our Focused investment Constantly striving customers and capability through for top-quartile growth providing innovative, an independent on a sustained basis value-for-money boutique model product solutions and services by targeting the global trends driving our industry... Demographic and Increased demand Active and index Outsourcing economic changes for transparency, asset management freedom of choice differentiation and flexibility Overview Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 08 1.
Gathering assets by recognising demographic and economic opportunities We operate in a wide range of markets around the world, and this diversity gives us opportunities and choices as economies grow and demographics shift.
In many of our territories our customers are living longer, with greater demands for retirement provision.
The trends affecting our asset gathering strategies encompass: Developing economies in India, China and Australia: we are well placed to benefit from the worlds fastest-growing economies Emerging middle classes in Africa and Asia: growing generations of more affluent and investment-aware consumers Baby-boomers in North America and Europe: flexible prolonged gradual retirement Global economic growth driving asset growth: equities offering longer-term returns In the US, 83% of our assets had outperformed their benchmarks and 83% were ranked above the median of their peer group over the trailing three-year period Shanghai, China Liying and Tao aged 26 and 28 Liying and Tao are looking forward to their future together a future which could well be brighter as a result of regular investment in their Old Mutual unit-linked savings policy.
"31'22"" N 121'47"" E Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 09 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 10 2."
Managing assets by providing superior customer service We realise that there is an abundance of options available to our customers and that they are becoming increasingly investment-literate and have more information to inform their choices.
We monitor and report on service levels, recognising that excellent service is a competitive advantage in a world of commoditised solutions.
Our philosophy of decentralisation allows each of our businesses to react quickly and effectively to local conditions, and we aim to respond to the needs of our customers with superior service irrespective of market conditions.
Therefore we must remain aware of the increasingly complex factors affecting the way we manage our customers assets: Strong demand for simplicity, transparency, flexibility and fairness in terms of service and product offerings Active participation by regulators, leading to greater need for responsibility and clarity from suppliers Effective emergence of e-commerce and personal financial DIY, giving consumers greater choice and access Atlanta, United States Bradley Jnr.
wants to make sure that his family is well protected, so the mortgage-term insurance policy that he has with Old Mutual means he has one less thing to worry about.
"33'75"" N 84'39"" W Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 11 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 12 3."
Delivering returns by developing innovative products and solutions We aim for top-quartile returns on a sustainable basis and this requires the application of strong product-development expertise and consistent investment performance.
We have moved away from the model of being a life assurer to one where our chief aim is to provide investment solutions through a range of innovative products and asset classes.
Our leading open-architecture platform allows customers range and flexibility, and gives us the opportunity to maximise returns.
Our product development focuses on: Open-architecture and wrap platforms Lower front-end charges Guarantees only where explicitly required and paid for Shift from life products to unit trusts and mutual funds Oxford, United Kingdom Caroline and Michael aged 50 and 52 Caroline and Michael want to take the fullest advantage from their working lives, and the Skandia open-architecture wrap platform gives them the flexibility to do this and enjoy life to the full.
"51'75"" N 01'25"" W Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 13"
