Rathbones at a glance Investment Management Business activity The investment management division provides mainly discretionary investment management services to private investors and charities with portfolios held in discretionary accounts, trust structures, ISA accounts or self-invested personal pensions from ofces in the UK and Jersey.
The majority of clients have a fee-based service with securities held in a Rathbone nominee company and surplus cash held by Rathbone Investment Management, an authorised banking institution.
Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services advises clients on retirement planning options and offers the Rathbone SIPP.
1 Funds under management 11.23bn 2 Operating income 104.4m 2 profits before tax 40.1m Principal trading names Rathbone Investment Management Rathbone Investment Management International Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services 1 Employees full time equivalents 545 Bristol Kendal Ofces Cambridge Liverpool Chichester London Edinburgh Winchester Jersey Business head Richard Lanyon www.
com Ethical investment 4 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 1 as at 31 December 2007 2 for the year ended 31 December 2007 Unit Trusts Trust and Tax The unit trust division has a range In the UK, the trust business of unit trusts which are distributed provides taxation services mainly through independent compliance and planning, financial advisers in the UK.
probate services, trust services trust formation, administration, These funds are purchased accounting and provision of through financial supermarkets, trustees and protectors, and life assurance companies and family ofce services.
through direct contact with financial advisers.
Outside the UK, under the banner of Rathbone Trust Funds cover the UK stockmarket, International, the trust business embracing small, medium and specialises in the provision of large companies to achieve trustee, corporate and family ofce growth and income.
In addition services from ofces in Jersey, we manage an ethical bond fund Switzerland Geneva, Singapore and one global fund focused on and the British Virgin Islands.
1.89bn 18.8m 24.9m 6.9m 3.9m Rathbone Unit Trust Management Rathbone Trust Company Rathbone Trust International 37 222 London Jersey UK BVI Switzerland Singapore Peter Pearson Lund Ian Buckley www.
com rat services onshore www.
com Offshore services 5 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007
