2 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 AT A GLANCE A strong and diversified International portfolio, balanced between International comprises our businesses in the mature markets of Scandinavia, Canada, Ireland and Italy.
attractive mature markets and emerging markets with higher growth potential Scandinavia accounts for 55% of International premiums.
Our businesses, Codan in Denmark and Trygg-Hansa in Sweden, are ranked third largest in their respective markets.
We have recently increased our presence in Norway and expanded into Finland.
In Canada, we are the sixth largest general insurer.
The business comprises Johnson Corporation, one of Canadas leading direct writers, as well as our Personal and Commercial Broker operations.
In Ireland, we are focused on the broker channel and are the leading provider of household insurance.
Our Italian business distributes the majority of its products through non tied agents, with a network focused in northern Italy.
Net written premiums 2,513m Scandinavia 1,379m Canada 703m Other Europe 431m Introduction Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 3 UK Emerging Markets We are the UKs largest Commercial and third largest Emerging Markets is our fastest growing region, Personal lines insurer.
covering 20 markets with high growth potential.
Our Commercial business writes property, motor liability and marine Latin America accounts for 57% of Emerging Markets premiums.
Property is the largest segment, accounting for over 39% of largest operations are based in Chile, where we are the market leader, premiums.
The business has a strong reputation for technical excellence.
We are also the largest private insurer in Uruguay.
It insures around 80% of FTSE 100 retailers and is one of the leading carriers of professional & financial and marine risks outside Lloyds We are the largest general insurer in the Baltics, with market leading of London.
positions in Latvia and Lithuania, and in 2007 we expanded into Estonia.
Our Personal business is ranked third largest in the UK, and writes business We are located in eight countries across Asia and the Middle East, through the broker, affinity and direct channels.
MORE TH N, our direct including India and China.
business has around 2.3 million covers in place and provides household, motor, travel and pet insurance.
Our Affinity business provides a range Our Central and Eastern European joint venture owns Link4, the leading of insurance products to the retail customers of our corporate partners, direct insurer in Poland.
We established a similar operation in the Czech and has grown by 23% since 2005.
Republic in 2007 and plan to launch in Russia in 2008.
Net written premiums Net written premiums 2,688m 615m Commercial Latin America 1,614m 350m Baltics Personal 154m 1,074m Asia & Middle East 111m
