Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 At a glance Our businesses Centricas main operations are in the UK, North America and Europe.
We have two types of business downstream and upstream.
Our downstream business delivered 88% of our Group revenue, Our upstream business delivered 12% of our Group revenue, 51% of our operating profit, and employed 95% of our workforce 49% of our operating profit, and employed 5% of our in 2007.
It: 3 supplies energy to homes and to businesses: and 3 generates electricity and produces gas: and 3 provides home and energy services.
3 buys, stores and sells energy internationally.
Downstream businesses include: Upstream businesses include: 3 British Gas: 3 Centrica Energy in the UK, Norway, Nigeria and Trinidad: 3 Direct Energy in North America: and 3 Centrica Storage in the UK: 3 retail operations in Europe.
3 Direct Energy in North America: and 3 assets and trading operations in Europe.
British Gas Residential British Gas Services We are the biggest energy supplier in Britains domestic market.
We are Britains largest operator in the installation and Operating under our British Gas brand Scottish Gas in Scotland, maintenance of domestic central heating and gas appliances we had 16 million gas and electricity customer accounts at the employing more than 9,000 engineers.
We also provide end of 2007. comprehensive maintenance and breakdown services for electrical white goods, home wiring and, through our Dyno brand, drains, plumbing and home security services.
6m Operating profit Customer accounts Operating profit Customer accounts www.
co. uk British Gas New Energy British Gas Business We launched British Gas New Energy as a separate business in We are Britains leading supplier of energy to businesses, April 2007 to supply the growing UK market for low-carbon and dedicated to the needs of small to medium-sized customers energy efficient products and services.
Already we have launched through to large industrial and commercial users.
We offer two industry-leading green energy tariffs and begun to supply a range of options from open tariffs to fixed price contracts.
and install a range of microgeneration technologies including solar thermal, wind turbines and ground source heat pumps.
We remain the largest provider of energy efficiency products, such as loft and cavity wall insulation, in the UK.
We work with other parts of British Gas utilising their skills and resources to help deliver our business objectives.
3m Operating profit Customer supply points Employees Energy efficiency products provided to UK households www.
co. uk 02 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Our markets and proportion of Group revenue The map illustrates how much revenue each of the regions 73% Revenue contributed to the Groups 2007 total.
The UK, our home market, in the UK continues to contribute the majority.
North American revenues are growing every year in local currency and we expect our operations here to become even more significant in the future.
2% Our businesses in Europe remain small but we expect to see Revenue growth once the markets they are in open fully to competition.
25% in Europe Revenue in North America from continuing operations including joint ventures and associates, stated net of interest and taxation, and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements Centrica Energy Centrica Storage We source gas and electricity from our own production and Our Rough storage facility is the largest in the UK.
It consists from third parties, mainly to supply British Gas Residential.
Our of a partially depleted gas field under the North Sea, supported Morecambe gas fields can supply around 6% of the UKs peak by a gas processing terminal at Easington, which we also manage.
day gas demand: we produce approximately 67% of our peak In October 2006 Centrica Storage began operating an adjacent domestic demand for our electricity customers from our seven terminal receiving Norwegian gas from the worlds longest gas-fired power stations and major contracts: and we are underwater pipeline.
expecting to invest up to 1.5 billion in renewable assets over the next few years.
1.5bn 1,100 340m 190 Revenue Employees Revenue Employees 663m 4.5GW 240m 70% Operating profit UK electricity Operating profit UK gas storage capacity generation capacity www.
co. uk Direct Energy European Energy We provide energy and energy-related services to residential We are involved in power generation, energy management and business customers in Texas and the north and east of the and retail energy supply in Europe, with operations in Belgium, United States, as well as across Canada.
We own and operate Germany, the Netherlands and Spain.
approximately 3,000 natural gas wells in Alberta while in Texas, we own three gas-fired power plants and have power purchase agreements totalling 813MW of wind power.
4bn 4,800 392m 200 Revenue Employees Revenue Employees 187m 5m 17m Operating profit Customer accounts Operating profit www.
