02 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Group at a glance Our marketplace Our aim is to achieve market leadership in the sectors Developing our people and valuing diversity Our strategy focuses on the and countries that we have identified as having real To value and recognise the diversity and contribution outsourced foodservice and prospects for strong long-term organic growth and of our people.
We create a work environment that is provide the global capability necessary to grow our challenging and provides the opportunities and support support services markets, international client base.
for everyone to develop, learn and succeed.
building on the existing Our guiding principles form the basis of our approach Profitable growth expertise and strengths we to delivering this strategy: To deliver shareholder value through disciplined, sustainable growth, underpinned by strong governance, have as a Group.
Health, safety and environment first that contributes to and leverages the benefits of our Never to compromise on the health and safety of our global scale.
We estimate that outsourcing growth in the foodservice customers and our people, and to manage responsibly market which we estimate is 150 billion is at least 5% the impact that our business has on the environment.
Constant focus on performance and efficiency per annum.
As market leader, we will strive for more and To deliver the highest quality and performance, faster penetration of the foodservice market that is still self Delivering for clients and consumers whilst relentlessly driving to be the lowest cost, most operated.
The support services market is significantly To earn the continued loyalty of our customers by efficient provider.
larger than the foodservice market and growing at a consistently demonstrating why we are the first choice faster rate.
for quality, service, value and innovation.
Leading sector expertise We have unparalleled experience in providing these Business & Industry We are a world leading provider services to people in a whole range of environments No-one understands food at work quite like we do, of food and support services.
at work, at school or university, in hospital, at sporting whether it is in offices, distribution, factories or any or cultural events, or in remote environments.
Our consumer focus drives Every day we serve literally proven capability in each of these markets results the development and innovation in our food offers, millions of people around the from our sector focus, with dedicated operating brands and service to deliver the optimum solution from businesses in each sector in our main geographies.
restaurants and caf style outlets to coffee bars and world, whether it is to provide This in-depth understanding of the demands of these vending.
We also provide a selected range of support markets and the needs of our customers drives our services that complement our foodservice offer.
This them with a meal, a cup of coffee, market-leading innovation, our operating efficiency includes cleaning, grounds maintenance, hospitality a clean office or helping to keep and ultimately the quality of the service our and reception services.
the entire workspace around Fine Dining them working at its best.
Food is at the heart of what we do and, often working with world-renowned chefs, we bring exceptional gastronomic creativity and flair, style and hospitality to executive dining rooms, prestigious social and cultural Market sectors and operating companies events and world famous venues.
North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World Healthcare & Seniors One of the most demanding markets in which we operate.
The very highest standards of food safety and hygiene, working with clinical staff and having a detailed understanding of the nutritional needs of those we care for have made us a leader in this market.
Our offer is broader than simply foodservice for patients, staff and visitors, and includes a range of complementary support services including services such as cleaning and housekeeping.
Education From primary schools to some of the worlds most renowned universities, we provide a nutritious, well-balanced diet to fuel the development of young minds and bodies.
Sports & Leisure We have unparalleled experience in providing high quality foodservice for some of the worlds most prestigious sporting and leisure venues, visitor attractions and social events.
In addition we have the specialist inhouse expertise and resources to provide a single source for the complete marketing and management of corporate hospitality packages.
Defence, Offshore & Remote Sites We provide vital workplace support for people working in some of the most hostile and demanding terrains in the world from oil and gas to major construction sites and remote mining locations.
Our technical and logistical competence, commitment to health and safety and ability to effectively mobilise contracts have earned us an enviable reputation for providing fully integrated food and support services for global clients with workers around the world.
Vending Vending is an integral part of our foodservice offer and we are able to deliver high quality, innovative solutions to our customers.
In North America this is through Canteen, our specialist vending operation.
In a number of countries we have a single operating company providing multi-sector solutions.
For example, Onama in Italy and Seiyo in Japan.
Business & Industry Fine Dining Healthcare & Seniors Education Sports & Leisure Defence, Offshore Vending North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World 03 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Regional review at a glance North America Continental Europe For the 13th consecutive year Master Chef Wolfgang Our business in Spain is capitalising on the rapid Puck was selected to create the menu for The Academy expansion of the senior-living market.
Building on our of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences post-Oscar event, experience of providing foodservice in the residential the Governors Ball.
In the same month Compass care homes market, we have developed a delivered foodservice excellence was on show at the 49th meals service for senior and handicapped people Annual Grammy Awards and for the Players Party at home: a model for other countries with ageing and Super Bowl Host Committee VIP Party at this populations looking for an alternative to moving years Super Bowl.
In the last year we have delivered over 1.2 million meals to people in-home providing a varied, healthy diet.
Percentage of Percentage of Revenue Revenue Group revenue Group revenue 2006: 4,290m 2006: 2,484m 40% 25% 2006: 42% 2006: 24% 4,162m 2,553m 3 3 Operating profit Operating profit 2006: 245m 2006: 122m 261m 151m Regional highlights In Healthcare, 7% organic growth Regional highlights Education sectors, have driven Continued excellent progress from increased cross-selling between Organic revenue growth has doubled organic revenue growth of 13%.
Morrison, our foodservice business, to 4%, with good growth opportunities Continued high activity in the oil Operating profit from continuing and Crothall, our support services for the future.
and gas industry in the Nordic region operations increased by 39 million business.
On a constant currency basis, growth contributed to 14% organic revenue on a constant currency basis to Healthy eating programmes and of 31 million operating profit from growth, while the focus on healthy 261 million 2006: 222 million, the strength of the Chartwells brand continuing operations to 151 million eating continues to drive volumes a 60 basis point margin improvement.
contributed to 9% organic revenue 2006: 120 million represents a margin through much of the region.
The Business & Industry sector has growth in the Education sector.
Good turnaround in previously been driven by innovation in our offer, Good growth in Levy, our Sports In Spain, like for like growth, driven underperforming countries such delivering 4% like for like revenue & Leisure business.
by new offerings and an increase in as France and the Netherlands.
Continued good progress with consumer numbers, together with We are becoming more established our business in Canada.
new business in the Healthcare and in the Eastern European market, Our pipeline for 2008 looks healthy.
United Kingdom Rest of the World The newly branded Restaurant Associates was launched Tengizchevroil TCO, a Chevron managed joint venture in May 2007 to respond to a growing demand for a in Kazakhstan, renewed their contract for support leading provider of executive hospitality, dining and services at their Atyrau and Tengiz facilities after a business support services to its prestigious blue-chip competitive re-tendering process.
This is one of our clients: including 17 out of the top 20 investment banks in largest remote site contracts, with over 3,200 of our London, law firms and leading organisations.
The move people providing a range of services, including full consolidated our previous brand operations under one daily catering services and the full maintenance of strong identity and management structure.
Our new offices, accommodation rooms and town homes.
business goals reflect a commitment to innovation, service, lifestyle and simplicity.
Percentage of Percentage of Revenue Revenue Group revenue Group revenue 2006: 1,882m 2006: 1,611m 19% 16% 2006: 18% 2006: 16% 1,931m 1,622m 3 3 Operating profit Operating profit 2006: 107m 2006: 47m 107m 64m Regional highlights The Education sector has stabilised Regional highlights restructuring the business has resulted Revenue in the UK was 1,931 million following a difficult period.
Another very strong year, delivering in good margin improvement.
2006: 1,882 million, growth of We have continued to reorganise the 64 million operating profit from Our businesses in Abu Dhabi and 2% on an organic basis.
business to drive further efficiencies.
continuing operations 2006: Dubai have seen good revenue and A solid result with, as expected, We expect a broadly similar 43 million on a constant currency margin growth.
operating profits in line with last year.
performance in 2008. basis, an increase of 21 million.
Good revenue growth with some Largely completed the turnaround or Australia continues to deliver strong margin improvement in Latin America.
exit of poor performing contracts.
organic revenue growth driven by the Looking forward there remains ongoing buoyancy of the extraction significant opportunity to further industries.
develop our businesses in the Encouraging progress in Japan, where Rest of the World both in size and the focus on driving efficiency and operating performance.
