EuropE AfricA Egypt rEst of AfricA OpERaTiONal HiGHliGHTS NORWAY acquisition of Ener petroleum aSa Storskrymten discovery well 7 new blocks in apa round UNITED KINGDOM 2 new producing fields brought onstream: Enoch oil field Cavendish gas field EXPLORATION Successful uK exploration wells at Grouse & Kerloch 16 new blocks th awarded 24 round Gas discovery E18-7, Dutch Sector OTTER KERLOCH HUDSON RINNES MELVILLE JOTUN EITRI ENOCH CLAYMORE STORSKRYMTEN CALEDONIA BARBARA GOOSANDER GROUSE KITTIWAKE MALLARD BANFF GADWALL CAVENDISH MONKWELL JOHNSTON Production BABBAGE F16-E Development ANGLIA E18 Exploration VICTOR EuROpE proDuctioN & DEVELopMENt new well accesses a previously undrained study work.
Discussions are well advanced During 2007, the Enoch oil field Dana 8.8% area of the field and significantly increases with infrastructure hosts and to align the and the Cavendish gas field, where Dana gas production capacity.
Modifications on five Barbara equity owners for a combined increased its interest to 50% prior to first the Ravenspurn host platform should also development with the neighbouring Phyllis gas, were both brought on stream.
With the facilitate increased output from the existing gas field.
addition of properties in Egypt and Norway, Johnston wells.
the Company ended the year producing from Danas significant stakes in Barbara and a total of 30 oil and gas fields.
Average Work is also advancing at pace on the Babbage represent two of the key growth Group production in 2007 was 30,514 boepd Babbage field development Dana 40%, areas for the Company in the coming years of which approximately 89% emanated from with drilling expected to commence in late and mean that the Group is participating the North Sea.
As a result of adding new 2008 and first gas targeted for early 2010. in two of the more substantial remaining fields and significant enhancement work in This project will be very significant for Dana gas developments in the UK North Sea.
In existing fields, Group production capacity and will strengthen the Companys position addition, project sanction has been achieved increased strongly during 2007.
The year in the UK Southern North Sea.
for the E18 gas development Dana 5% in end exit rate of approximately 45,000 boepd the Netherlands following further successful Good progress is being made at the Barbara significantly exceeded the Companys twodrilling in 2007.
E18 gas will flow across the gas field in the Central North Sea.
Dana, year target set at the end of 2005. existing F16-E field in which Dana also has as operator, has undertaken comprehensive an equity interest.
Dana continued a high level of activity in subsurface geoscience and surface facilities its existing fields.
The Greater Kittiwake Area GKA Dana 50% was successfully tied-back via a new pipeline to the Forties Pipeline System in November, replacing the THE NORTH SEa pROviDED 89% previous tanker loading system.
Accordingly, uptime from the GKA has considerably Of GROup pRODuCTiON iN 2007. improved.
The new pipeline will also underpin future development decisions WiTH a pipEliNE Of fuRTHER and improve the economic return for new project tie-backs in the area, including the DEvElOpmENT pROjECTS bEiNG Grouse oil field where development is now being progressed rapidly following the very aCTivEly WORKED, THE NORTH SEa successful well drilled in 2007.
CONTiNuES TO pROviDE fuTuRE The Johnston J5 well came on stream just before the year end Dana 49.89%.
Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 9 Operational Highlights Europe EuROpE continued EXpLorAtioN & ApprAisAL including three operated blocks in the 2007 During 2007, the Company had some The crude oil was of good quality, with a APA Rounds.
During 2008, Dana expects notable successes with the drillbit.
gravity around 32 degrees API and a gas to build its exploration portfolio further oil ratio in line with other discoveries in In the Dutch North Sea, the E18-7 through applying for licences in the UK the area.
The Kerloch well was suspended exploration well was successfully drilled Government's 25th Offshore Licensing to allow potential re-entry and future use.
and flow tested at a rate of approximately Round, the Norwegian 20th Round and the Dana holds a 50% stake in the Kerloch oil 36 million standard cubic feet of gas 2008 APA Round.
discovery and throughout Block 211 22a per day, leading to sanction of the E18 NW, which also contains an earlier oil development.
Faroe Petroleum plc FP has also been discovery.
highly successful in licensing rounds, with The Grouse appraisal well in the GKA in the In February 2007, Dana was awarded 16 the award of five licences in the UK 24th UK Central North Sea tested at stabilised offshore blocks in the UK Government's 24th Round, six licence interests in the APA 2006 flow rates in excess of the pre-drill Offshore Licensing Round, predominantly Round offshore Norway and a further five expectations.
The well flowed at rates of in the prospective West of Shetland region licence interests in the APA 2007 awards.
over 10,600 boepd, through a 32 64 choke, and in the GKA.
In February 2008, Dana In November 2007, FP announced a series with a tubing head pressure of around 2,700 pre-qualified as an operator in Norway and of further commercial transactions building psi, but this flow rate was limited by the was awarded interests in seven blocks, throughput capacity of the test equipment.
The well was suspended for use as a future producer and Grouse will be developed as a subsea tieback to the Kittiwake platform utilising the Goosander production riser which was installed in 2006.
A fast track development is now underway with first oil expected early in 2009.
Danas first well in Norway was 15 12-18A targeting the Storskrymten prospect Dana 25%, in the neighbourhood of the Sleipner field.
The well discovered an oil column in the Palaeocene Ty formation and following sidetracking of the original well, it found further oil bearing sands in the Heimdal formation.
The operator estimates recoverable volumes of between 9 and 44 million barrels of oil and the co-venturers are considering a further well in the area before progressing with a development.
The Dana operated Kerloch well, 211 22a-10 in the UK Northern North Sea, was drilled to a total depth of 12,282 feet and encountered a full Brent reservoir sequence, as predicted prior to drilling.
The well intersected an oil column of some 116 feet in the Ness Formation.
10 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 upon its exploration, development and was drilled to a total measured depth of a full Brent reservoir sequence.
Dana supported 6,470 feet 5,870 true vertical depth subsea well found excellent quality sands in the FPs share placing in December 2007 and and encountered a full Brent reservoir Lower Brent reservoir sequence with the maintained the Groups position as the sequence with excellent quality sands Upper Brent less well developed.
Given largest shareholder in FP at just over 17%.
The Company successfully the similarity in reservoir quality and oil During the first quarter of 2008, Dana completed a drill-stem test of West Rinnes, characteristics to West Rinnes, the well further increased its interest in FP to 27.5% which flowed at rates of up to 7,800 barrels was not drill stem tested as the Company by acquiring shares on the open market.
of oil per day with the flowrate being had already gathered sufficient data to The Company views its position in FP as a restricted by the test equipment on the fully evaluate the discovery.
Following strategic holding in a smaller independent drilling rig.
The fluid produced was 100% completion of the drilling at East Rinnes, company with a complementary strategy clean oil of good quality with a gravity of Dana has commenced a complete review and geographic spread.
The Rinnes of the data gathered, and will re-interpret oil is of very similar quality to that being the seismic data utilizing the new well In March and April 2008, Dana drilled the produced by Dana at the nearby Hudson information and remap the two structures West and East Rinnes prospects located field.
The East Rinnes well, 210 24a-11z, and examine the additional prospects for five miles from the Dana operated Hudson was drilled as a sidetrack into a separate further drilling.
Development studies for the oil field Dana 47.5% in the UK Northern fault block adjacent to West Rinnes, to a Rinnes discoveries and the nearby Melville North Sea targeting two separate Brent total measured depth of 6,935 feet 6,144 oil field will also be initiated.
The first well, true vertical depth subsea and encountered 210 24a-11, into the West Rinnes structure DEvON ENERGY AcqUIsITION 4 producing fields, 1 operated 4 operated exploration concessions positioned in 3 MAjOR hYDROcARbON bAsINs Nile Delta Gulf of Suez Western Desert 10 exploration wells planned in Egypt for 2008 TANGER LARACHE GULF OF SUEZ: NW SAFI WEST EL BURULLUS BOUANANE MOROCCO RAS ABU DARAG SOUTH OCTOBER WEST ABU GHARADIG NORTH GHARA NORTH QARUN EAST ZEIT QARUN SOUTH FEIRAN EAST BENI SUEF NORTH ZEIT BAY EGYPT BLOCK 8 BLOCK 7 MAURITANIA BLOCK 2 BLOCK 1 ST LOUIS SENEGAL Production KENYA Exploration afRiCa EGypT proDuctioN & DEVELopMENt Dana has worked hard over the last nine Each of the permits in the Western field exploration, are planned, The first of months to consolidate, optimise and fully Desert, namely Qarun, East Beni Suef and these, the SWQ-12 well has recently been resource its new Egyptian operations.
The West Abu Gharadig, have seen active successfully completed.
Company is now well positioned to deliver development work in 2007 which is planned On East Beni Suef Dana 50%, also an extensive E&P work programme in Egypt to continue through 2008. operated by Apache, and which consists of during 2008.
In the Qarun concession, Dana 25% five fields namely Yusif, Beni Suef, Lahun, The producing assets acquired by Dana which is operated by Apache Corporation Azhar and Gharibon, a number of frac jobs from Devon are located in four concessions, and consists of six fields namely Qarun, and ESP workovers were undertaken.
At three onshore and one offshore, which North Qarun, South-West Qarun, Sakr, the end of 2007, gross field production together cover 14 development leases.
The North Harun and Wadi El Rayan an from East Beni Suef was c. 2,200 bopd.
Two Egyptian oil fields have performed strongly ongoing programme of electric submersible development wells are planned in 2008. since completion of their acquisition in pump ESP replacements, frac jobs, The four wells brought onstream at the October 2007, with investment ongoing pump upgrades and general repairs end of 2006 in the West Abu Gharadig in each of the producing fields.
Compared resulted in total production at the end of concession Dana 30% and which consists with the North Sea, incremental work 2007 exceeding 7,000 bopd.
A detailed of the Raml and Raml SW fields, have onshore is relatively low cost and hence subsurface study on Wadi El Rayan has maintained gross production at close to the opportunities to undertake continued also identified further drilling targets.
In record levels of around 6,500 bopd.
work in the field is greater.
In total Dana 2008, five wells, which are effectively near plans to spend in excess of 25 million on development opportunities in Egypt in 2008.
In the East Zeit field Dana 100%, DaNaS NEWly aCquiRED offshore Gulf of Suez, the focus has been on finalising the workover and infill OpERaTiNG CapabiliTy iN EGypT drilling programme for 2008, to improve on the closing production level for 2007 alSO allOWS THE aCCElERaTiON of approximately 4300 bopd.
Dana will be targeting at least one new well and two Of ExplORaTiON WORK sidetracks using the IO3 drilling rig.
The Company also recognises significant further pROGRammES aND THE DElivERy potential in this field which it is progressing with its subsurface technical team in Cairo.
Of NEW buSiNESS OppORTuNiTiES Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 13 Operational Highlights Africa afRiCa EGypT continued EXpLorAtioN & ApprAisAL year will drill its first well in South October, The Group now holds exploration assets the deeper pre-Miocene potential in a well in SE July and two onshore wells in in three key petroleum areas across Egypt, which BP in particular, have recently been North Zeit Bay.
namely offshore Nile Delta, the Gulf of extremely successful on neighbouring Suez and the Western Desert.
In the Western Desert, Dana works of assets provides Dana with a broad In contrast to the Nile Delta, the Gulf closely with Apache in the East Beni Suef portfolio of opportunities, onshore and of Suez is a relatively mature basin, concession.
In addition to containing five offshore, both oil and gas prone, with some where new technology, principally ocean development leases, the concession also relatively under-explored potential.
Danas bottom cable 3D seismic, is creating new has considerable exploration potential newly acquired operating capability in Egypt opportunties.
Dana has a very strong particularly to the east of the River Nile also allows the acceleration of exploration position in the Gulf of Suez with interests where the Gharibon field is the only current work programmes and the delivery of new currently in five offshore exploration field in production.
Up to four exploration business opportunities, such as the recently concessions namely Ras Abu Gharadig wells are planned in the East Beni Suef announced acquisition of an interest in the Dana 100%, South October Dana 65%, Extension area in the coming year.
In the South East July concession in May 2008.
South Feiran Dana 20% and North Ghara North Qarun concession Dana 50%, to the The offshore Nile Delta has recently Dana 25% and one onshore concession west of Cairo, Dana as operator plans to developed as a world class gas province North Zeit Bay Dana 100%.
The Company drill one onshore well during 2008. with a range of major companies actively has also recently added to this portfolio by The Company also expects to actively exploring.
Dana acquired a 50% interest in acquiring an interest in the South-East July participate in each of the three proposed the extremely attractive West El Burullus concession from Santos, Dana 40% subject Egyptian licensing rounds scheduled for block as part of a wider transaction with to normal regulatory approvals.
Dana is 2008, and to continue to build on the Gaz fide France in 2005 6.
Having acquired currently drilling the West Gihan prospect in current business platform.
and interpreted seismic through 2007, the South Feiran concession, and later this the first well, WEB-1X, has recently been successfully drilled.
The well was drilled to 2403 metres true vertical depth, targeting a Pliocene prospect consisting of a turbidite sandstone channel system.
The well encountered good quality gas bearing sands and an extensive set of wireline logs were run to maximise the reservoir data acquired.
The partners also successfully completed a comprehensive multi-flowrate drill-stem test of the reservoir sequence, which flowed at rates of up to approximately 27 million standard cubic feet of gas per day.
The well flowed very strongly with high downhole pressures.
The acquired data will now be analysed and an appraisal program defined.
Follow up potential in the block, includes further post-Miocene exploration in the shallow water in the area surrounding WEB-1X, similar geological plays in the deeper water further offshore and exploring 14 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 REST Of afRiCa EXpLorAtioN & ApprAisAL In Morocco, Dana is operating the onshore decided to enter the next phase of the its equity in Block 2 to 10.73%, following Bouanane licence Dana 50%, close to the Production Sharing Contract, including the withdrawal of Woodside Petroleum, and Algerian border.
Study work has progressed the commitment to a further well by the Dana is now working with the new operator well and the co-ventureres are currently in middle of 2010.
Dana, as operator, is Tullow, to develop the forward programme.
negotiations to secure a drilling rig for its currently reprocessing 3D seismic data In Kenya, following the disappointment of first well in this area.
This well will target in the concession to better define the the results of the Pomboo well completed the large Tafejjart gas prospect.
The Company is also early in 2007, on Block L5 Dana 27%, on the Tanger Larache licence Dana 15%, currently actively pursuing deep water rig the Company remains focused on realising interpretation of existing 3D seismic has options for an anticipated 2009 10 drilling value from the two well farm-out previously identified a number of gas prospects close programme.
In Block 1 Mauritania Dana agreed with Woodside in 2003. to shore.
One such prospect Anchois, is 36% and the adjacent St Louis concession expected to be drilled late 2008 early 2009. in Senegal Dana 30%, a new 3D seismic survey is currently being acquired.
This Progress has also been made on a number survey will allow optimisation of future of fronts in Mauritania.
In Block 7 Dana drilling targets.
The Company also increased 36%, northern Mauritania, the co-venturers Operational Highlights continued HEalTH, SafETy aND ENviRONmENTal pERfORmaNCE Health, Safety and Environmental HS&E CONTiNual impROvEmENT 2007 HS&E pERfORmaNCE management is a key priority for Dana Continual improvement in HS&E Although Danas 2007 HS&E goals were particularly as the Company grows, performance is sought throughout the largely overtaken by the significant increases its staff and takes on more organisation by setting and monitoring organisational changes in business, operating responsibilities.
Commitment to objectives, implementing the Dana HS&E following the acquisitions in Egypt and HS&E is driven from the Board to Directors, Management System and pursuing the Norway, all original goals were achieved.
with the Technical & Commercial Director following policy aims: During 2007 there were no Loss Time having responsibility for HS&E across the Injuries to any Dana personnel or contractors Provision of adequate resources to organisation.
HS&E matters are managed working for Dana.
The Company also met all facilitate successful HS&E management: alongside other critical business functions legal requirements in relation to HS&E in all by the senior management team in the Ensuring employees and contractors are the countries in which it worked.
suitably competent and able to perform Highlights of the 2007 HS&E performance assigned tasks: At the Corporate 2007 HS&E Management included: Review, six HS&E principles were set and Identification and review of operational Review of previous HS&E Management communicated to establish ideals which risk and environmental impacts, system and development of a revised Dana will strive to achieve across all its mitigating risk where possible and Group Umbrella Management System business activities: communicating as appropriate: which governs all Dana activities world No harm to people: Ensuring relevant regulatory, legal and wide, allowing for the HS&E integration other requirements are met and applying of country office operations in UK, Egypt No undesirable environmental release Dana standards where regional laws do and Norway: or emissions: not exist: Approval of the HS&E Management No damage to property: Communicating regularly with external System by Norwegian Safety Authority HS&E matters managed as any other parties to allow Dana where practicable PSA as an integral element of Operator critical business activity: to implement best practice in managing pre-qualification in Norway granted HS&E risks: January 2008 : Promoting a positive safety culture: Active promotion of Dana HS&E Activities undertaken with HS&E Implementation of Operations Integrity standards with suppliers, contractors and Management System and Oil Spill compliance.
companies operating on Danas behalf: Contingency Plan for operated East Zeit Field, offshore Gulf of Suez, Egypt: Ensuring suitable and sufficient arrangements are in place to manage and respond to emergency situations: Encouraging a culture whereby employees, contractors and other stakeholders may contribute to the implementation of this policy and the Dana HS&E Management System.
Annual HS&E goals are set at a corporate level, with objectives and targets then set by country offices to support the corporate goals.
The Company sets targets against leading indicators and monitors its performance against industry standard lagging HS&E indicators, including Accident Incidence Rates.
16 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 Continued alignment with ISO: 14001 All formal submissions for drilling, exercise to test its effectiveness.
Dana Environmental Management Standard, well and pipeline activities were was commended for its best practice building on successful compliance, duly approved: approach to specific areas of the as externally verified to OSPAR response plan during this exercise: Dana has continued work with the Recommendation 3 2005 in 2006: Mauritanian authorities to develop an Danas operated producing interests Dana participated in the industry appropriate Environmental Statement are now subject to permit regimes Produced Water Trading Scheme to framework for the country: and every effort is made to ensure satisfy the UK OSPAR requirements that the specified permit levels are Danas UK Oil Spill Contingency Plan in respect of its operated Hudson field.
Opportunities for was successfully tested with the Deputy Dana has been proactive in significantly improving the environmental impact of Secretary of State and approved by reducing its oil in produced water Danas operations are considered on an the Department of Trade and Industry discharges since acquiring the ongoing basis.
in June 2007, following a practical Hudson asset:
