YEAR IN BRIEF DURING THE YEAR WE HAVE INVESTED IN ALL ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS PRODUCTS, STORES, MARKETING AND INFRASTRUCTURE TO FOCUS ON MEETING THE NEEDS OF OUR CUSTOMERS.
SEPTEMBER 2006 NOVEMBER 2006 The year began with the acquisition of nine Roches The website was re-launched stores on 12 September giving an additional improving Debenhams ability 575,000 sq ft of retail space and increasing the to cope with growing levels of number of Debenhams employees by c 1,500.
This demand within this environment.
grew our presence in the Republic of Ireland to In the last quarter of the year 12 stores.
we achieved a like-for-like sales increase of 62.8 per cent.
This would not have been possible without the greater stability and capacity of the new site.
JANUARY 2007 New technology to improve service levels was trialled in two stores, switching time away from administrative tasks such as manual product pricing to customer facing interaction.
The new price change management system was rolled out during the Summer which enabled clear and accurate pricing, resulting in faster sell through at first markdown.
FEBRUARY 2007 The second half of the year saw greater focus on product, including the launch of Mantaray across menswear and older kids, a new brand for Debenhams.
A womens fashion range, Gorgeous, specialising in sizes 16-26, was introduced.
Other new Designers introduced during the year included Melissa Odabash in womens swimwear and accessories, along with Betty Jackson, Julien Macdonald and Jeff Banks in home furnishings.
At the end of the year, Baker by Ted Baker was introduced to childrenswear, an exclusive brand to Debenhams.
MARCH 2007 In March we opened a new store in Bucharest, Romania.
We also opened stores in Kuwait, Mecca and Moscow, bringing the international franchise portfolio to 34 stores in 15 countries at year end.
D fide eb be en nh ha am ms s A An nn nu ua al l r re ep po or rt t a an nd d a ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 07 7 2 2 S Se ec ct ti io on n 1 1 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w MAY 2007 The store refit programme was both accelerated and upgraded with a new premium feel.
Uxbridge was the first store to benefit from this new look.
The modernisation particularly focused on redesigned visuals to enhance Debenhams own brand product.
Nine stores were completed with the new feel by the end of the year and a further 12 are in progress.
The Warrington store opened in May 2007.
This was the final department store opening of the year and brought the total number of department stores to 133 at the year end.
JUNE 2007 The new press and store marketing campaign was approved for the 2007 08 financial year, featuring a clubs theme.
The Company continues to strive to reduce the impact of its business on the environment.
In June 2007, we introduced 100 per cent recycled post consumer waste carrier bags into all stores.
AUGUST 2007 Walton-on-Thames Desire store was opened.
This brought the total number of Desire stores opened during the year to five, the others being Birmingham Fort, Merthyr, Kirkaldy and Altrincham.
The total portfolio of Desire stores has more than doubled in the year increasing from four to nine stores.
SEPTEMBER 2007 Success at the Prima High Street Awards retaining the best eveningwear category and Betty Jackson winning best designer.
Subsequently we have won best department store at the Company High Street Awards.
D fide eb be en nh ha am ms s A An nn nu ua al l r re ep po or rt t a an nd d a ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 07 7 3 3 S Se ec ct ti io on n 1 1 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w
