Diageo Annual Report 2007 1 Highlights Brand performance and regional reviews Brand performance Europe Continued growth in Continental Reported Organic Reported Organic Europe supported by strong second half volume volume net sales net sales performance in Russia, Great Britain movement movement movement movement %%%% and Ireland Volume up 2% Global priority brands 6 6 3 7 Net sales flat Local priority brands 4337 Marketing spend up 1% Category brands 7 6 4 8 Total 6 5 3 7 Operating profit flat Key spirits brands : In Europe strong growth in Continental Europe Smirnoff vodka 6 6 4 9 and Russia from Baileys, Johnnie Walker and Johnnie Walker 14 14 13 16 Smirnoff vodka partially offset the first half net Captain Morgan 7 7 2 10 sales decline in Great Britain, Ireland and Spain.
Baileys 7 7 6 10 In the second half all three of these markets J&B 2 2 3 1 delivered net sales growth: in Great Britain Jos Cuervo 2 2 4 3 Smirnoff vodka and Baileys both grew net sales Tanqueray 6 6 3 10 over 10%: in Ireland the improved performance Crown Royal North America 5 5 1 9 of the lager brands drove growth: and in Spain Buchanans International 41 41 53 40 Windsor Asia Pacific 15 15 12 15 Johnnie Walker grew net sales 19%.
Guinness 2 2 3 International Continued strong Ready to drink 1 1 5 performance of Diageos Scotch and Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
beer brands delivered top line growth Volume up 16% The global priority brands represent 60% of The overall performance of ready to drink Net sales up 18% volume and were the main driver of top line was driven by the continued decline of the Marketing spend up 17% growth with volume up 6% and net sales up 7%.
category in Europe offset by strong growth Operating profit up 19% The growth was driven by the performance of in International.
International delivered strong growth throughout Johnnie Walker, Smirnoff, Baileys and Captain In the year ended 30 June 2007 certain brands the region.
Diageos Scotch brands continued to Morgan across a number of regions.
These are formerly treated as local priority brands have be the main driver of growth, especially Johnnie the worlds leading brands and this volume now been reclassified as category brands and Walker with net sales up 18% and Buchanans growth represents some huge increases in case vice versa, to reflect the change in contribution with net sales up 40%.
The growth of Diageos volume.
Smirnoff, for example, grew by over of these brands in individual countries.
All beer brands in Africa accelerated in the second a million cases while Johnnie Walker grew comparative figures have been restated.
See the half fuelled by a new Guinness campaign.
by almost two million cases in the year.
Business review for additional information The launch of Baileys flavours contributed to an Johnnie Walker volume is now over 15 million regarding these changes.
Ready to drink includes increase of 21% in net sales for the Baileys brand.
cases and the brand extended its position further all ready to drink brands.
In ready to drink net sales were up 19% led by as the worlds leading Scotch with growth around Smirnoff Storm in South Africa and Smirnoff Ice the globe.
Regional summary Smirnoff vodka volume was up 6% to 23.2 million cases with growth in each region but North America focus on priority brands Asia Pacific Top line growth accelerated in particularly in North America, which accounts for delivered strong top line growth and the second half driving improved operating over 40% of total Smirnoff net sales.
Net sales grew operating margin improvement margin leverage Volume up 3% 9% as a result of price increases in many markets.
Volume up 12% Growth of Baileys was driven by the launch Net sales up 7% Net sales up 13% of Baileys flavours with particularly strong Marketing spend up 5% Marketing spend up 22% performances in North America and International.
Operating profit up 12% Operating profit up 7% While Captain Morgan is primarily a North North America delivered strong top and bottom American brand, it also grew strongly in Europe.
In Asia Pacific top line growth accelerated line growth driven by the priority brands.
Volume Outstanding performance of Guinness in in the second half as marketing spend was growth of spirits was 3%, wine 6% and beer 7%.
International with net sales up 15% and growth increased behind new brand launches in India Price increases on approximately 50% of the in North America offset the decline in the tough and in the fast growing markets of Southeast volume together with mix improvements beer markets of Great Britain and Ireland.
Johnnie Walker, Diageos largest brand in resulted in net sales for spirits, wine and beer all The local priority brands were the biggest driver the region, was the biggest growth driver with up 8% while ready to drink net sales, from a 6% of overall price and mix improvement in the year.
further strong net sales growth of 22%.
While decline in volume, were down only 1%.
Smirnoff Crown Royal in North America, Buchanans in Korea, China and India continue to be the key vodka and Baileys each delivered double digit International and Windsor in Asia Pacific all grew growth engines for the region, performance net sales growth.
Diageos value share of the strongly and contributed significantly to this was broad based as every market delivered net distilled spirits market in the United States grew improvement.
In the second half net sales growth 0.6 percentage points in 2007.
Category brands performance was driven by was 17%, driven by Johnnie Walker, which grew Diageos other Scotch brands, as well as the high net sales 32%.
Korea, Thailand and India all value reserve brands.
improved performance in the second half.
