2 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 GKN at a Glance Automotive Powder Metallurgy Principal Operations 01 Constant velocity jointed sideshaft 02 Variable valve timing rotor 03 Off-highway driveshaft 01 02 04 Blended winglet GKN Driveline designs and manufactures automotive GKN Sinter Metals uses powdered metals to driveline components and systems for light vehicles, manufacture precision automotive components for including driveshafts, geared components and torque engines, transmissions, and body and chassis management devices.
The European IDS business provides applications.
It also produces a range of components for a range of components to the passenger vehicle aftermarket, industrial and consumer applications, including power and repairs and replaces heavy duty propshafts.
tools, bearings, white goods and garden equipment.
The business operates from 30 locations in Western Europe, The business, including joint ventures, operates from North and South America, India, China and South Africa.
Hoeganaes produces metal powders, largely steel Other Automotive companies manufacture structural based, used in the manufacture of sintered components.
components, engine cylinder liners and substrates for Manufacturing takes place in North America, where it is catalytic converters for light vehicle and truck applications the largest producer of ferrous metal powder, with a through subsidiaries and joint ventures in the UK, growing presence in Eastern Europe.
Germany, the US, China and India.
Share of 2007 Group Sales 2,281m 602m 55% 15% GKN Driveline is the global leader in the production of GKN Sinter Metals is the worlds largest manufacturer of Major Markets constant velocity jointed CVJ components for light vehicle sintered components with an estimated 15% global market drivelines.
It produces some 113 million CVJs annually share, almost twice that of its nearest competitor.
representing approximately 40% of global production.
Approximately 80% of its sales are to automotive customers, Its share of global demand for premium propshafts is with around 35% either directly or indirectly to the North around 20% and it is one of the worlds leading suppliers of American operations of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler traction control devices.
The customer base is wide and and the balance to a wide range of European automotive and includes all the worlds major motor manufacturing groups.
IDS has a wide range of aftermarket customers and Hoeganaes has an estimated 50% share of the metal Other Automotive sells mainly to European and US vehicle powder market in North America.
Some 50% of its sales are manufacturers and engine makers.
to our own sintering business with the balance to other US, European and Asian customers.
Sales by Region of Origin Rest of the World Rest of the World and Employees 519m 23% 29m 5% Americas 311m 52% Americas 518m 23% Europe Europe 1,244m 54% 262m 43% Total Employees 23,600 Total Employees 6,800 Sales Sales Including share of joint ventures Page 18 Page 24 Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 3 A leading engineering group operating in more than 30 countries and employing over 42,000 people in its subsidiary and joint venture companies.
OffHighway Aerospace 03 04 GKN OffHighway designs, manufactures and distributes GKN Aerospace is a leading supplier of airframe and a wide range of products and systems for the agricultural, engine structures, components, assemblies and construction and mining, and industrial machinery engineering services to aircraft prime contractors.
The business supplies, on a global basis, a design and manufacturing capabilities in aerostructures unique portfolio of products for off-highway vehicles fuselage, wing and flight control surface assemblies and including agricultural and torsion axles, wheels, power components, propulsion systems engine and nacelle take-off shafts, gearboxes and tractor attachment systems.
components and assemblies, and special products including transparencies and protection systems.
A service and distribution business supplies GKNs and other manufacturers products to aftermarket wholesalers The business operates through 20 manufacturing and distributors, principally within Europe.
facilities around the world, mainly in North America and Europe, assisted by a network of design and The business operates from 24 locations in 13 countries www.
across the Americas, Europe and Asia.
419m 820m 10% 20% The major markets in which GKN OffHighway operates GKN Aerospace serves all major airframe and engine are global agricultural 63% of sales, construction and manufacturers, with particular emphasis on composite mining equipment 23% and industrial equipment 14%.
technologies and lightweight highly stressed metallic GKN OffHighway is the leading global supplier of components.
It is a leader in the design and manufacture off-highway wheels, agricultural power take-off shafts, of advanced composites, transparencies and complex and high speed shafts for construction equipment.
A first tier supplier to the worlds leading Approximately 58% of sales are to the defence manufacturers of agricultural and construction and mining market and 42% to the civil market.
The top three equipment, 50% of its sales are to 15 global customers customers, which account for some 50% of sales, are including John Deere, Caterpillar, Case New Holland, Boeing, United Technologies and EADS.
15% of total sales CLAAS and AGCO.
The remaining sales are to some 3,000 are derived from aftermarket services.
Rest of the World Rest of the World 13m 3% 15m 2% 110m 26% 537m 65% Americas Americas 296m 71% Europe Europe 268m 33% Total Employees 4,000 Total Employees 7,700 Sales Sales Page 28 Page 32 Automotive Powder Metallurgy OffHighway Aerospace GKN at a Glance
