Imperial at a glance Block 70 Maiskoye, Middle Glukhovskoye, and North Chertalinskoye fields.
Significant development work was carried out at Maiskoye with five horizontal wells and one vertical well drilled and the construction of phase one of the field facilities.
In December 2007, the new exploration well on South Maiskoye successfully tested commercial oil flow from the Tyumen reservoir.
In addition, this well discovered Vasyugan oil bearing sands, confirming the existence of both Vasyugan and Tyumen reservoirs extending from the productive Maiskoye field a few km to the North East.
Middle Glukhovskoye oil field was newly discovered and registered in 2007.
Block 85 South Festivalnoye, Tamratskoye and Nyulginskoye fields.
The South Festivalnoye well was successfully drilled and identified hydrocarbons.
This well will be tested and the field registered in 2008.
The Nyulginskaya prospect was successfully drilled with oil identified in Cretaceous and Tyumen reservoirs.
An additional well was drilled in Tamratskoye and tested commercial rates of oil.
Tamratskoye oil field was newly discovered and registered in 2007.
Block 86 Chagvinskoye and Vodorazdelnoye fields.
Well Chagvinskoye 4 was tested in 2007 in a number of layers.
Further testing and field registration will be carried out in 2008 prior to field development.
Vodorazdelnoye 3 exploration well was successfully drilled, tested and registered in 2007.
The well was hydraulically fractured: further testing and field registration will be completed during 2008.
Block 74 Golovnoye and Buranovskoye fields.
Golovnoye oil field was successfully tested and registered as a discovered field.
During 2007 Imperial also drilled a well at Buranovskoye successfully identifying and testing commercial rates of oil.
The Letnaya and Trostnikovaya prospects have significant oil potential and remain to be explored.
Block 69 Festivalnoye, Central Festivalnoye and North Festivalnoye fields.
Three wells at Festivalnoye and one well at North Festivalnoye were production tested in 2007 in preparation for field development.
Major production and appraisal drilling is planned for Festivalnoye field in 2008.
Block 77 Snezhnoye and Dvoinoye fields.
Significant development work was carried out at the Snezhnoye field in 2007 with 14 wells in production.
Major production and appraisal drilling is planned for 2008 on this field.
Dvoinoye field comprises one well to date which is currently producing.
Chizhapskaya and Dvoinaya-NW prospects have been defined in the north west of Block 77.
In October 2007, Imperial received the results of new seismic data on Block 80, including 380 sq km of 3D seismic.
The 3D data revealed one significant NE-SW trending structure and several smaller surrounding structures with a high exploration potential.
Significant exploration and appraisal drilling is due to take place on Kiev-Eganskoye field in 2008.
The North Torgai Block, Kazakhstan The results of Imperials seismic survey show several leads and one potential prospect of interest.
The Board has decided to explore this prospect which is situated in the northern part of the block, to the west of Lake Kushmurun.
Drilling of this structure has now commenced.
It is anticipated that the results of this well will now be announced by the end of May 2008.
Pipelines and field facilities Two pipelines, the 159km  pipeline and the 49km Snezhnoye-Zavyalovo pipeline are now fully operational.
Oil is flowing directly to the Transneft system through Imperials own custody transfer stations at Luginetskoye and Zavyalovo.
A third pipeline, 152km long east of the Ob River has already completed the construction phase with commissioning due by the end of summer 2008, and first oil is expected to flow in autumn 2008.
Imperial has invested in construction and upgrading of field facilities at Snezhnoye and Maiskoye, and has started the construction of facilities at Festivalnoye and Kiev-Eganskoye fields.
