Inmarsat at a glance Inmarsat has stood at the forefront of the mobile satellite services MSS industry for nearly 30 years.
We have unique, unrivalled experience in designing and operating satellite communications networks.
We are internationally recognised as pioneers in our field and continue to introduce new technologies that redefine the standards for our industry.
The Inmarsat name is synonymous with reliable, secure, global mobile satellite communications.
We offer a complete portfolio of mobile voice and data services to almost anywhere on the planet, whether on land, at sea or in the air.
A business with momentum The markets in which we operate Maritime Land Mobile Inmarsat offers an unparalleled range of voice, fax and data Our users include businesses operating in remote areas or services to suit all types and tonnages of vessel from small those who are travelling to these environments and need yachts to the largest ocean-going ships, enabling seafarers access to the same communications offered by their ofce.
to communicate as effectively on board as they can when Our portfolio of services for the land mobile sector has they are on shore.
We are the only operator that provides been enhanced by our Broadband Global Area Network Global Maritime Distress and Safety System-compliant service BGAN and handheld voice services.
BGAN offers communications for safety services on a global basis.
simultaneous broadband data speeds and voice connectivity.
Aeronautical Government The worlds leading airlines, corporations and governments Inmarsat offers a variety of tailored and off-the-shelf solutions depend on Inmarsat satellite services for in-ight connectivity.
designed to meet the growing demand for worldwide Inmarsat plays a key role in ensuring safe and efficient aircraft communications in support of modern military, civil operation over oceanic airspace.
SwiftBroadband, which governments and homeland security operations.
Whether offers enhanced capabilities, was launched in October 2007. the mission lies on land, at sea or in the air, Inmarsat enables organisations to create the secure mobile networks required for effective operations.
Inmarsat plc 02 Annual report and accounts 2007 1979 Founded as an IGO 1980 First maritime service 1990 Launch of Inmarsat-2 satellites 1991 First aero service 1993 First land mobile service 1996 Launch of Inmarsat-3 satellites 1999 Company privatisation First high-speed data service introduced 2002 Fleet and Swift services launched Inmarsat satellite locations Inmarsats constellation of satellites, positioned in 180 geostationary orbit 36,000 km above the earths surface is controlled from Inmarsats head ofce in London, UK.
Our satellites are deployed around the world in nine orbital locations spaced apart in order to minimise harmful interference and maximise spectrum re-use.
These orbital POR locations provide global coverage with some overlaps in areas of higher trafc density.
Inmarsat-2 constellation 90 W 90 E Inmarsat-3 constellation AOR W IOR Inmarsat-4 constellation The third Inmarsat-4 satellite is planned for launch as early AOR E as practicable in 2008.
The orbital positions are expected to change following this launch.
0 MSS revenue by sector 2007 This chart reects MSS sector revenues for 2007.
During the year, maritime revenues increased by 12% 9%: land mobile sector revenues increased by 8%: aeronautical revenues increased by 44%: and leasing revenues increased by 10%.
8% Maritime 57% Land mobile 23% Aeronautical 8% Leasing 12% 57% 23% Inmarsat plc 03 Annual report and accounts 2007 2005 Land mobile broadband service BGAN Initial public offering on London Stock Exchange Launch of two Inmarsat-4 satellites 2006 Entry into the handheld satellite phone market 2007 16 July: IsatPhone and LandPhone launched 10 September: IsatM2M: new service 22 October: new aero service: SwiftBroadband launched 9 November: FleetPhone introduced 19 November: FleetBroadband launched for maritime users 2008 Third Inmarsat-4 to be launched
