Split of investment commitment 1% 4% 2% 3% 3% 1% 4% 9% 8% 14% 1% 13% 4% 13% 35% 19% 44% 20% 52% 37% 68% 12% 30% 3% Specialist Services Project Services Equipment Services PFI Investments Activities Activities Trading name Activities Provision of a set of specialised Design, construction and RMD Kwikform Limited Transaction structuring and services.
These can be maintenance of buildings and management of Interserves PFI delivered either individually or infrastructure.
as part of bundled service Design, hire and sale of packages through the FM Focusing on framework formwork, falsework and The division co-ordinates division.
agreements, PFI projects and associated access equipment in Interserves identification of long-term maintenance infrastructure and building suitable target projects, Typical services contracts, Project Services has projects.
selection of bid partners and a progressive approach, bid management process.
It manned guarding working in true partnership and The divisions design and manages the Groups PFI equity security stewards forming long-term relationships logistics expertise help its investments and provides electronic security systems with its customers and its customers maximise the value management services to various supply, installation and supply chain.
of their projects by reducing special purpose companies.
At maintenance time and cost and position 31 December 2007 Interserve mechanical and electrical Typical services Interserve as an integral part of was involved in 26 PFI PPP installation and their supply chain.
contracts with five more at building design, maintenance preferred bidder stage.
The construction and heating, ventilation and air Typical services total investment commitment maintenance conditioning servicing for these projects was hire and sale of formwork, road design and asbestos surveying and approximately 73.9 million.
falsework and associated construction remediation access equipment bridge maintenance specialist window and Key sectors consultancy in its and repair faade cleaning health application design, construction and safety systems for working education project planning commissioning of water and at height defence sewage treatment plants technical support central and local custom design Key sectors Key sectors government commerce health Key sectors custodial police finance education infrastructure retail Geographical scope commerce transport sport United Kingdom defence buildings central and local industry utilities government central and local waterways infrastructure government commerce industry infrastructure industry custodial police central and local Geographical scope government United Kingdom Geographical scope United Kingdom, Middle East Geographical scope Europe, Middle East, Africa, Australasia, Far East, North & South America Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 3
