Y Ye ea ar r a at t a a G Glla an nc ce e March was a busy training month at Hayward Our Middle East Baker in the US.
business got off to a good start in January, The company held its 10th Engineers when it was awarded Conference, attended by 104 engineers and the first of two project managers from Hayward Baker and a contracts for further 55 engineers from other Group foundation works at businesses.
This bi-annual event has become a Al Raha Beach.
focal point for experience-sharing and training.
Throughout 2007, For the first time, the Conference included a it undertook sand February marked the start of works at the young new project managers training course.
compaction and new GrandRivire Harbour at Martinique, installed stone West Indies where Keller was involved in Also, the companys first Field Leadership columns on reclaimed the development of a new port facility.
Course was attended by 24 superintendants, land as part of this luxury leisure and residential When completed, the port is expected to bring who came together to learn about leadership development along the highway between significant benefits to the local community which skills for the jobsite.
Such was its success, that Abu Dhabi and Dubai.
is dependent on the port for fishing and tourism.
this is now planned as an annual event.
J Ja an nu ua ar ry y F Fe eb br ru ua ar ry y M Ma ar rc ch h J Ju ully y A Au ug gu us st t S Se ep pt te em mb be er r In August, we The Keller Board makes a point of holding at announced our largestleast one Board meeting a year at an ever contract awards in operational location.
In September, it was the Australia and the US turn of our Middle East region to host the for piling and ground meeting, which included a visit to Palm Deira, improvement works for the third of the palm-shaped, man-made islands the Gateway Upgrade in being built off the coast of Dubai.
The Board Queensland, Australia heard from local senior managers about their and foundations for plans to capitalise on the growth opportunities the Chicago Spire in the in this booming construction market.
Excellent progress was made on both in the second half of the year.
Throughout the summer, Keller-Terra was engaged in extensive works at the Port of At Keller Ground Engineering in the UK, Eddie Huelva in southern Spain, including the largest Evans, Operations Controller, celebrated 40 area of compaction grouting works undertaken years service with Keller.
The depth of in Spain, as part of the port redevelopment experience and commitment of our employees project.
is one of the Groups key success factors.
The visit was also an opportunity to celebrate the long service of Imtiaz Ahmed Syed, who is responsible for our Bahrain office and who was presented with his 25-year service award.
4 4 Keller Group plc Y Ye ea ar r a at t a a G Glla an nc ce e Manchester was the location for a site demonstration and seminar in June.
In Andersons May Engineers and newsletter, President contractors from the Dan Cadenhead north west of England wrote about life were able to see one since the companys of our Vibrocat rigs acquisition in 2006: installing bottom feed Our new relationship stone columns for a with Keller has new industrial unit.
Everyone at Keller Such events around has been very supportive of Anderson.
They the world are a have worked hard with our administration staff popular way of and accounting teams to improve, and even sharing knowledge speed up, the data made available to our with our industry In April we completed the acquisition of management.
They have helped promote a colleagues.
Systems Geotechnique, a specialist contractor working relationship with some of our sister offering drilling and grouting services to the UK companies, including Hayward Baker.
Following on from the Phi have offered the financial backing and clout acquisition in 2006, the addition of Systems that have made Anderson an even stronger Geotechnique further broadens Kellers company within our industry.
Couple all of that presence and product range, reinforcing its with their global expertise and perspective and leading position in the UK market.
we are feeling like we are in great hands.
A Ap pr riill M Ma ay y J Ju un ne e O Oc ct to ob be er r N No ov five em mb be er r D fide ec ce em mb be er r In the US in October we acquired HJ the Late autumn saw Keller companies picking up Engineers at Systems market leader in Florida in Continuous Flight a number of safety awards.
Geotechnique Auger CFA piles, a growing product line know all about the In Singapore, we won the title of Contractor of which is new to Keller in the US.
As well as challenges of working the Month under the Shell Houdini ECC Project giving Keller access to a new piling market on an operational safety incentive programme.
in Florida, the acquisition enables the Group railway.
On a to accelerate the introduction of CFA piling December Thursday in its other US businesses.
morning, they received an order and design loads for two new rail gantries.
By that evening, they had created the pile design and had placed an order In France, we received an award from the for the steel.
By Saturday morning, they had Regional Professional Health Insurance for two crews and two rigs on site and were ready Alsace-Moselle for Best Health & Safety at Work to go.
After an initial delay whilst the client Policy.
We also learnt that we were to receive completed its preparations, all eight piles were an award from the National Public Works installed by Sunday evening well within the Contractors Association for our employee possession, so as not to delay Monday health and safety survey and the resulting mornings commute.
improvement in safety awareness and behaviour.
All of the Groups US foundation contracting businesses received safety awards from the International Association of Foundation Drilling.
Y Ye ea ar r a at t a a G Glla an nc ce e Keller Group plc 5 5
