2 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Strategy at a glance Four strategic priorities Strengthening B&Q and Castoramas leadership positions in the UK and France, mainly by improving sales, margin and cost productivity in existing stores.
Expanding proven growth businesses, with significant scope to expand their store network and grow market share.
Establishing new opportunities for growth.
Capitalising on key competitive advantages: buying scale and international diversity.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 3 Progress in 2006 07 B&Q UK and Castorama France two new stores and nine revamped stores were B&Q UK made progress with its four operational trading in the new format.
B&Q plans to convert drivers price competitiveness, customer service, all the remaining large stores to this format over new products and store environment.
A key the next four years, with a further 25 conversions development in the year was the successful trial planned for 2007 08 see pages 20 to 23 for of a new large-store format which will form the more details.
blueprint for revamping all of B&Qs 115 large In France, Castorama continued its revitalisation stores.
With new customer service initiatives and programme with two new store openings and new ranges also performing well, management a further seven stores converted to the new format.
remains confident that an eventual 25% Castorama now trades from 98 stores and it will improvement in sales productivity from existing continue its programme of revamping or relocating larger stores is achievable.
By the end of the year, its remaining 65 older stores over the coming years.
Brico Dpt France, Castorama Poland and productivity.
In the UK, Screwfix Direct opened 31 Italy, B&Q China, Taiwan and Ireland and new trade counter stores, taking the total to 38.
Screwfix Direct in the UK Castorama Poland continued to grow strongly To support continued expansion, 182 million, 40% and the first trial Brico Dpt store was opened in of Kingfishers total capital investment for the year, Warsaw to target trade professionals.
Castorama was invested in these businesses.
Fifty-six new Italy and B&Q Ireland achieved strong growth.
stores were opened in the year taking the total in In China, B&Q completed the integration of the this category to nearly 270, with a similar number OBI stores acquired in 2005 and returned to planned to open in 2007 08. profitability.
With 58 stores B&Q China has In France, Brico Dpt added 10 new stores consolidated its position as market leader.
A major new system upgrade Taiwan operates 21 stores.
A smaller store format was implemented to enhance competitiveness and has been successfully trialled.
Brico Dpt in Spain, Castorama in Russia, UK professional market.
In Russia, three stores Koctas in Turkey, B&Q Home in South Korea opened during the year, marking Kingfishers entry 5 5 and Trade Depot in the UK.
During the year, 51 million was invested in these A further 12 stores are planned to open in developing businesses, 11% of Kingfishers total 2007 08 in these development businesses.
Twelve stores opened in the year taking the total trading to 29.
In Turkey, Koctas 5 5 is now profitable after expansion costs and Brico Dpt Spain is also on track to overall profitability within the next 12-18 months.
Trials continued into the second year at Trade Depot, which opened two more stores to serve the During the year, Kingfisher continued to bring Kingfisher companies also continued to share new products to market, develop its own-brands ideas, management talent and best practice, and extend direct sourcing from low-cost countries.
as shown during the year in the development Kingfisher continued to develop its network of the new B&Q large-store format in the UK, of overseas sourcing offices in Europe and Asia.
the launch of Brico Dpt in Poland and the entry Direct sourcing shipments totalled around of Castorama into Russia.
US$700 million, an increase of over 20% on the previous year.
