Notice of Annual General Meeting Accounts 71 Notice of Annual General Meeting believe that the effect of such purchases will be to increase earnings per share.
They will also have regard to whether, at the time, this represents the best use of the Companys resources and is to the benefit of the shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Subsequently, this resolution seeks authority from shareholders to empower the directors to make limited on-market purchases.
The resolution limits this authority to a maximum number of ordinary shares that may be acquired of 10,918,921 being 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at March 9, 2012.
The authority conferred by this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting or 18 months from the date of the passing of the resolution whichever is earlier.
Any shares purchased under this authority will either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
As at March 9, 2012 there were options outstanding over 67,463 ordinary shares, which represent 0.06% of the Companys issued share capital at that date and would represent 0.07% of the Companys issued share capital if the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares were to be exercised in full.
Directors recommendation The directors believe that all of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and the directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all of the resolutions.
Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting: 1.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the above meeting may appoint one or more persons as his proxy to attend, speak and vote instead of him at the meeting, provided that, if more than one proxy is appointed each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attaching to different shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this Notice.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person if he so wishes.
In order to be valid, forms of proxy for the meeting and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is executed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority must be received, not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, at the office of the Companys Registrars: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for this meeting by following the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available at www.
The message must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent ID RA19 not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
A person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the member by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statements of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in Notes 1 and 3 above do not apply to a Nominated Person.
The rights described in those Notes can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
As at March 9, 2012 the Companys issued share capital amounted to 109,189,215 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at March 9, 2012 were 109,189,215 votes.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those members registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6:00pm UK time on April 16, 2012 or in the event that the meeting is adjourned, only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm UK time on the day which is three days prior to the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the above meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 72 Accounts Notice of Annual General Meeting 9.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Information r egarding the Annual General Meeting, including information required by section 311A of the Act, and a copy of this notice of Annual General Meeting is available from the Companys website www.
Members should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under section 527 of the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Under section 319A of the Act, the Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the business being dealt with at the Annual General Meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, or the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Except as provided above, members who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the Annual General Meeting should do so using the following means: a by writing to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office address at 17 Hill Street, London W1J 5LJ: or b by writing to the Registrars, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
In particular, members may not use any electronic address provided in this notice or in any related documents including the accompanying circular and proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated in this notice or in such other related documents.
The executive directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours on any weekday excluding public holidays until the time of the Annual General Meeting and will be available at the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, 1 Moorgate Place, London EC2R 6EA at least 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Annual General Meeting.
The results of the voting at the Annual General Meeting will be announced through a Regulatory Information Service and will appear on the Companys website at www.
Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is to be processed.
The Company and any third party to whom it discloses the data including the Registrars may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 73 This annual report has been printed on Chromomat paper and board.
It has 15% recycled content and is made up of 100% ECF virgin wood fibre.
It is independently certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
The paper is manufactured at a mill that is certified to ISO 14001 environmental management standards.
All the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process and inks used are all vegetable oil based.
co. uk Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
