70 Accounts Notice of Annual General Meeting Explanatory notes to the proposed resolutions: Resolution 1 Annual report and accounts The directors are required to present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the Companys audited accounts and the directors and auditors reports for the year ended December 31, 2011.
Resolution 2 Directors Remuneration Report UK listed companies are required to put before their shareholders in general meeting a resolution inviting shareholders to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report, which can be found on pages 23 to 25 of the Annual Report 2011, details the directors remuneration for the period ended December 31, 2011 and sets out the Companys overall policy on directors remuneration.
This resolution is advisory and does not affect the actual remuneration paid to any individual director.
It serves to provide shareholder feedback to the Remuneration Committee.
As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Companys independent auditors, Grant Thornton LLP, have audited those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report capable of being audited and their report can be found on page 28 of the Annual Report 2011.
Resolution 3 Approval of final dividend A final dividend can only be paid after it has been approved by the shareholders.
A final dividend of 5.50p per ordinary share for the year ended December 31, 2011 is recommended by the directors for payment to shareholders who are on the register of members at the close of business on May 4, 2012.
Resolutions 4-10 Re-election of directors The Companys articles of association require the directors to submit themselves for election at the first opportunity after their appointment and from then on for re-election every three years.
However, the new UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election.
Biographical details of each director appear on pages 15 and 16 of the Annual Report 2011 and details of their service contracts with the Company appear on page 24.
The board is of the opinion that the performance of each of the directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his role.
The board unanimously recommends the re-election of all of the directors.
Resolutions 11 and 12 Reappointment and remuneration of auditors The auditors of a company must be reappointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 11, on the audit committees recommendation, proposes the reappointment of the Companys existing auditors, Grant Thornton LLP, until the next general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 12 is a separate resolution which gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 13 Authority to offer scrip dividend This resolution seeks to renew the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting for the directors to offer shareholders the option to take dividends in ordinary shares instead of cash.
Resolution 14 Authority to allot shares This resolution seeks a new authority, to replace the existing authority, for the directors to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 727,928, representing approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at March 9, 2012.
The authority contained in this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting or at the close of business on the date which is 15 months following the passing of this resolution whichever is earlier.
The directors consider that this authority is desirable to allow the Company to retain flexibility, although they have no present intention of exercising it.
Resolution 15 Disapplication of pre-emption rights special resolution This resolution seeks authority for the directors, pursuant to the authority to allot granted by resolution 14, to allot equity securities as defined in the Act or sell treasury shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
Other than in connection with a rights or other similar issue, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal amount of 218,378, representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at March 9, 2012.
No shares are currently held in treasury by the Company.
This resolution replaces the present authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting, which is set to expire at the end of this years Annual General Meeting.
Similarly, the authority granted by this resolution will expire on the date which is 15 months after the date on which the resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting next held following the passing of the resolution.
The directors confirm that they have no present intention of exercising this authority.
However, the authority sought under this resolution provides the Company with the ability to continue to make acquisitions of royalties on low-cost, long-life mining assets.
Resolution 16 Authority to purchase own shares special resolution The directors are of the opinion that it would be advantageous for the Company to be in a position to purchase its own shares should market conditions and price justify such action.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this power and intend to exercise it only if they Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
