ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Anglo Pacific Group PLC Form of Proxy I We of being a member s of Anglo Pacific Group PLC the Company hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting or as my our proxy to attend, speak and vote for me us and on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday April 19, 2012 at the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, 1 Moorgate Place, London EC2R 6EA, United Kingdom and any adjournment thereof.
Date Signature s Before completing this form, please read the explanatory notes overleaf.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
For the appointment of more than one proxy please refer to Note 3 overleaf.
I We direct my our proxy to vote on the following resolutions as I we have indicated by marking the appropriate box with an X.
If no indication is given, my our proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion and I we authorise my our proxy to vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the meeting.
Resolution For Against Withheld Ordinary 1.
Resolution to receive the 2011 Accounts.
Resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
Resolution to declare a final dividend of 5.50p per ordinary share.
Resolution to re-elect M. H. Atkinson as a director.
Resolution to re-elect P. M. Boycott as a director.
Resolution to re-elect A. C. Orchard as a director.
Resolution to re-elect J. Theobald as a director.
Resolution to re-elect J. G. Whellock as a director.
Resolution to re-elect B. M. Wides as a director.
Resolution to re-elect A. H. Yadgaroff as a director.
Resolution to re-appoint Messrs. Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors.
Resolution to authorise the directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors.
Resolution to authorise scrip dividends.
Resolution that the directors be authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 727,928.
Resolution that the directors be authorised to allot treasury shares or new equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 218,378 free from statutory pre-emption rights.
Resolution that the Company be authorised to make one or more market purchases of up to 10,918,921 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, subject to certain restrictions and provisions, including the maximum and minimum price at which such shares may be purchased.
Please indicate with an X how you wish your vote to be cast.
An explanation of the resolutions is given in the notice of meeting.
A s a member of the Company you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of the Company.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes.
T o appoint as a proxy a person other than the Chairman of the meeting insert their full name in the space provided.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company, but must attend the meeting to represent you.
You can also appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by you.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
The following options are available: a To appoint the Chairman as your sole proxy in respect of all your shares, simply fill in any voting instructions in the appropriate box and sign and date the Form of Proxy: b To appoint a person other than the Chairman as your sole proxy in respect of all your shares, delete the words the Chairman of the meeting or and insert the name of your proxy in the spaces provided.
Then fill in any voting instructions in the appropriate box and sign and date the Form of Proxy: or c To appoint more than one proxy, you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and next to it the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you, otherwise the appointments will be invalid.
Please also indicate by ticking the box overleaf if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
If you wish to appoint the Chairman as one of your multiple proxies, simply write the Chairman of the Meeting.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
Unless otherwise indicated the proxy will vote as he thinks fit or, at his discretion, abstain from voting.
Where you appoint someone other than the Chairman as your proxy, you are responsible for ensuring that they attend the meeting and are aware of your voting intentions.
The Form of Proxy above must arrive not later than 48 hours before the time set for the meeting at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA during usual business hours accompanied by any power of attorney or any other authority under which it is executed if applicable.
A corporation must execute the Form of Proxy under either its common seal or the hand of a duly authorised officer or attorney.
The Vote Withheld option is to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
Such a vote is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the votes For and Against a resolution.
Shares held in uncertified form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual.
Please see the notice of meeting for more information on how to appoint instruct proxies via CREST.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the firstnamed being the most senior.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not preclude you from attending and voting in person at the meeting should you subsequently decide to do so.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC 17 Hill Street, Mayfair London W1J 5LJ United Kingdom T 44 0 20 3435 7400 F 44 0 20 7629 0370 info@anglopacificgroup.
