Report of the Directors Report of the Directors 17 Directors report Employees Special control rights The Group has 11 employees, 4 of whom are executive directors.
None of the shares carry any special control rights.
There are no known More information regarding the Groups employees can be found on agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, including any agreements pages 15 to 16 and page 50. between the Company and its directors or employees.
Donations Employee share schemes It is a continuing policy of the Group not to make political or charitable Details of employee share schemes are set out on pages 23 to 24 and donations.
The Groups directors and employees support philanthropic at note 2.11 to the financial statements.
efforts generally using their own personal resources.
The Groups philosophy is that charity is a decision best made by shareholders Treasury with their own resources, rather than management using the Groups No shares are currently held in treasury by the Company.
resources to make this decision on their behalf.
The Group aims to increase dividends and the value of the Groups shares so that Substantial shareholdings shareholders can make their own charitable decisions.
The Company has been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in the share capital of the Company at February 24, 2012.
No donations were made to charities during the year 2010: nil.
No political donations were made during the year 2010: nil.
Ordinary Policy on payment of creditors Shares The Companys policy with regard to the payment of suppliers is to: of 2p each Representing Ransomes Dock Ltd 8,841,315 8.10% agree terms of payment at the start of business with each supplier: AXA Investment Managers UK 5,494,332 5.03% ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment: and pay suppliers in accordance with contractual and legal obligations.
Rathbone Brothers PLC 5,287,850 4.84% Legal and General Group PLC 4,359,058 3.99% During the year to December 31, 2011 the Company took an average of 33 days to settle its bills with suppliers 2010: 23 days.
The Company acknowledges the importance of paying invoices promptly, especially Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors those of small businesses.
The directors who were in office on the date of approval of these Essential contracts financial statements have confirmed that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are The Group has a number of members of staff, who due to their unaware.
Each of the directors have confirmed that they have taken all knowledge of the Group and its intellectual property, are essential the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make to the continued smooth running of the business.
The Group reviews themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish its employment policies on an annual basis, including a review of its that it has been communicated to the auditors.
performance-related pay policies, so as to ensure these members of staff continue to remain incentivised and their goals remain congruent Auditors with those of the Group.
All employee contracts contain non-compete Grant Thornton UK LLP, have expressed willingness to continue in office.
agreements and also stipulate that all intellectual property remains In accordance with section 489 4 of the Companies Act 2006 United that of the Group.
Kingdom a resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on April 19, 2012.
Capital structure The structure of the Companys ordinary capital at March 2, 2012 was Annual General Meeting as follows: This years Annual General Meeting will be held at the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, 1 Moorgate Place, Nominal value Total % of total London EC2R 6EA, United Kingdom on Thursday April 19, 2012 at Issued No.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting can be found Ordinary on pages 68 to 72.
The notice includes explanatory notes to the shares 109,189,215 0.02 2,183,784 100% proposed resolutions.
The directors believe that all of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and the directors Rights and obligations unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all of Dividends the resolutions.
The 0.02 ordinary shares carry the right to dividends determined at the discretion of the Board.
Designated Foreign Issuer status The Company continues to be listed on the TSX and to be a reporting Voting rights issuer in the Province of Ontario, Canada.
The Company also The 0.02 ordinary shares carry the right to one vote per share.
continues to be a designated foreign issuer, as defined in National Restrictions on transfer of holdings Instrument 71-102 Continuous Disclosure and Other Exemptions There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the Relating to Foreign Issuers of the Canadian Securities Administrators.
transfer of the Companys shares, which are both governed by the As such, the Company is not subject to the same ongoing reporting general provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company and requirements as most other reporting issuers in Canada.
There are no known agreements between holders the Company will be in compliance with Canadian ongoing reporting of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer requirements if it complies with the UK Financial Services Authority of shares or voting rights.
in its capacity as the competent authority for the purposes of Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 United Kingdom, Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
