40 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least at each reporting date and the assessment includes variables such as the production profiles, commodity prices and management representations.
Property, plant and equipment is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell or value-in-use.
To determine the value-in-use, management estimates expected future cash flows from each asset and determines a suitable interest rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The data used for impairment testing procedures are directly linked to the Groups latest forecasts.
Discount factors are determined individually for each asset and reflect their respective risk profiles as assessed by management.
Impairment losses for business combinations reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to that business combination first.
Any remaining impairment loss is charged to the investment in the subsidiary or associate.
With the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may no longer exist.
An impairment charge is reversed if the assets recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount.
2.9 Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group has become a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
On initial recognition loans and receivables are stated at their fair value.
After initial recognition these are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Discounting is omitted where the effect of discounting is immaterial.
The Groups trade and most other receivables fall into this category of financial instruments.
Individually significant receivables are considered for impairment when they are past due or when other objective evidence is received that a specific counterparty will default.
Receivables that are not considered to be individually impaired are reviewed for impairment in groups, which are determined by reference to the industry and region of a counterparty and other available features of shared credit risk characteristics.
The percentage of the write down is then based on recent historical counterparty default rates for each identified group.
Impairment of trade receivables are presented within other losses.
Mining and exploration interests Mining and exploration interests are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, including transaction costs.
Mining and exploration interests are classified upon initial recognition as either available-for-sale or as assets at fair value through profit or loss, depending on the characteristics of the particular instrument and its purpose.
Interests classified as available-for-sale are measured at subsequent reporting dates at their fair value.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity within the investment revaluation reserve, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the profit or loss for the period.
Unquoted investments are measured at cost where fair value cannot be reliably determined.
When a market price can be established these investments are revalued to fair value accordingly.
For those mining and exploration interests which contain a convertible embedded derivative, these derivatives are separated and recognised at fair value through profit or loss with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value being recognised directly in the income statement.
The fair values of such instruments are assessed with reference to the relevant factors, which include, inter alia, equity prices in active markets, commodity prices, production profiles and management representations.
These assets are reviewed regularly to ensure that the initial classification remains correct given the asset characteristics and the Groups investment policies.
These assets may be initially recognised using transaction price as the best evidence of fair value at acquisition see note 19.
Options can be carried at cost if they are linked to unquoted equity where fair value cannot be reliably measured.
All mining and exploration interests held as available for sale are assessed for impairment at least at each reporting date and the assessment includes variables such as the instruments valuation in active markets, the companys underlying assets as well as any potential for economic mineral development within the relevant companys licences.
Royalty instruments Royalty instruments are recognised or derecognised on completion date where a purchase or sale of the royalty is under a contract, and are initially measured at fair value, including transaction costs.
Royalty instruments are classified upon initial recognition as available-for-sale or as assets at fair value through profit or loss, depending on the characteristics of the particular instrument and its purpose.
Some royalty contracts include clauses relating to the possibility of conversion to equity in the company granting the royalty.
These clauses are treated as embedded derivatives and are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
