Accounts Accounts 37 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 1 General information Anglo Pacific Group PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group secure natural resources royalties by acquisition and through investment in mining and exploration interests.
The Group has royalties and investments in mining and exploration interests primarily in Australia, North and South America and Africa, with a diversified exposure to commodities that is strongly represented by coal, iron ore, gold and uranium.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and Toronto Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is 17 Hill Street, London, W1J 5LJ, United Kingdom registered number: 897608.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Anglo Pacific Group PLC have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 United Kingdom applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of coal royalties, available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 4.
1 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures a New and amended standards adopted by the Group There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after January 1, 2011 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
b Significant new standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning January 1, 2011 and not early adopted IAS 1 Amendments Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 Amendments requires an entity to group items presented in other comprehensive income into those that, in accordance with other IFRSs: a will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and b will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met.
It is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after July 1, 2012.
The Groups management expects this will change the current presentation of items in other comprehensive income: however, it will not affect the measurement or recognition of such items.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective January 1, 2013 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective January 1, 2013 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective January 1, 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effective January 1, 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective January 1, 2013 IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised June 2011 effective January 1, 2013 Consequential amendments to IAS 27 Revised, Separate Financial Statements effective January 1, 2013 Consequential amendments to IAS 28 Revised, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures effective January 1, 2013 The Groups management have yet to assess the impact of IFRS 13 and IAS 19.
In respect of the other Standards, the directors anticipate that their adoption in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The Group does not intend to apply any of these pronouncements early.
2.2 Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for in the parent company at cost less impairment.
Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
