38 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 b Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of the associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
c Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other partners under a contractual arrangement.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in these financial statements using the proportionate consolidation method of accounting.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint ventures are incorporated with the similar items, line by line, in its financial statements.
Where a Group company transacts with a joint venture of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint venture.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
d Transactions and loss of control or significant influence When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
2.3 Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the Groups operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Committee which makes the strategic decisions for the Group.
2.4 Foreign currencies a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of the respective Group entity, using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions spot exchange rate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the remeasurement of monetary items at year-end exchange rates are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rates at the date of the transaction not retranslated.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rates at the date when fair value was determined.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: a assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: b income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates: and c all resulting exchange differences are charged credited to other comprehensive income and recognised in the currency translation reserve in equity.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
