26 Governance Directors responsibilities in the preparation of financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Transparency Rules accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements management section of the Directors Report confirm that, to the best for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected of each persons knowledge and belief: to prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements in the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under company law the financial position and profit of the Group and Company: and directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are the Directors Report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the review of the development and performance of the business and the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
directors are required to: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: corporate and financial information included on the Groups website, make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and prudent: governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed By order of the Board and explained in the financial statements: and P. M. Boycott prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is Chairman inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
March 9, 2012 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 United Kingdom and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors who were in office at the date of this statement confirm that, so far as they are each aware: there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Anglo P Anglo Pacific acific Gr Group PL oup PLC C Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 2011 ccounts 2011
