Accounts Accounts 39 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the currency translation reserve in equity.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are reclassified in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
2.5 Property, plant and equipment excluding coal royalties Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Once a mining project has been established as commercially viable, expenditure other than that on land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised under Producing assets together with any amount transferred from Exploration and evaluation costs note 2.7 a.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of production and or straight line basis as follows: Producing assets Units of production Coal tenures Units of production Fixtures and equipment 4 to 10 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss.
2.6 Coal royalties The Group owns a royalty entitlement to the output from the Kestrel and Crinum underground mines in Queensland, Australia, excluding the output from Crown areas.
As the Group owns the physical right to the minerals this entitlement is treated in the consolidated financial statements as a tangible fixed asset under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and the Group has adopted the revaluation method accordingly.
The coal royalties are valued at fair value based on future discounted cash flows calculated on a quarterly basis by an independent external consultant.
Management consider the valuation on a quarterly basis for any indications of possible impairment considering factors such as pricing and production forecasts.
Any movement in the valuation of the royalties is recognised in the coal royalty revaluation reserve, excluding the effects of foreign currency changes, which are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve and net of deferred taxation in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes.
2.7 Intangibles a Exploration and evaluation costs Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly attributable to: researching and analysing exploration data: conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or compiling prefeasibility and feasibility studies.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential.
Evaluation expenditure arises from a detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
Expenditure on exploration and evaluation activities is capitalised when there is a high degree of confidence in the projects viability and hence it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
The carrying values of capitalised amounts are reviewed twice per annum by management and the results of these reviews are reported to the Audit Committee.
In the case of undeveloped projects there may be only inferred resources to form a basis for the impairment review.
The review is based on a status report regarding the Groups intentions for development of the undeveloped project.
Subsequent recovery of the resulting carrying value depends on successful development or sale of the undeveloped project.
If a project does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are written off.
For developments that are considered viable and move to commercial production, these are transferred to producing assets.
b Royalty interests Royalty interests represent the net smelter royalties acquired on the Four Mile project in South Australia, the Salamanca uranium project in Spain, the Black Thor, Black Label and Big Daddy chromite projects in Northern Ontario, Canada and a number of tenements in the Athabasca Basin region of Canada, together with the gross revenue royalties covering the Amap iron ore system in Brazil, the Isua iron ore project in Greenland and three exploration licences, including the Railway iron ore deposit, in the central Pilbara region of Western Australia.
The Group does not own the physical rights to the minerals contained within these deposits.
The royalties receivable from the interests held are derived from the rights attached to the underlying mineral resources.
In line with IAS 38 Intangible assets these royalties are recognised at cost.
The useful life of the royalty interests will be determined by reference to planned mine life on commencement of mining and the cost of the royalty contract will be amortised on a systematic basis over the life of the mine.
Amortisation rates are adjusted on a prospective basis for all changes to estimates of the life of mine.
Amortisation will stop when the royalty is classified as held for sale or derecognised.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
