42 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 The grant by the company of options over its equity instruments to employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
2.12 Reserves Equity comprises the following: Share capital represents the nominal value of equity shares.
Share premium represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares, net of expenses of the share issue.
Coal royalty revaluation reserve represents revaluation of the coal royalty from the opening carrying value, excluding the effects of deferred tax and foreign currency changes.
Investment revaluation reserve represents gains and losses due to the revaluation of the investments in mining and exploration interests and other royalties from the opening carrying values, including the effects of deferred tax and foreign currency changes.
Share based payment reserve represents equity-settled share based employee remuneration until such share options are exercised.
Foreign currency reserve represents the differences arising from translation of investments in overseas subsidiaries.
Special reserve represents the level of profit attributable to the Group for the period ended June 30, 2002 which was created as part of a capital reduction performed in 2002.
Investment in own shares represents the shares held by the Anglo Pacific Group Employee Benefit Trust for awards made under the Joint Share Ownership Plan note 26.
Retained earnings represents retained profits.
2.13 Revenue recognition The revenue of the Group comprises royalty income and amounts receivable from external customers for services excluding value added tax and other sales related taxes.
It is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
The royalty income becomes receivable on extraction and sale of the relevant minerals, at which point the revenue is recognised.
Disposals of mining and exploration interests are disclosed net of any commissions and foreign exchange.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
2.14 Leases Rentals payable under operating leases where substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership are not transferred to the lessee are charged against profits on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
2.15 Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
3 Financial risk management The Groups principal treasury objective is to provide sufficient liquidity to meet operational cash flow and dividend requirements and to allow the Group to take advantage of new growth opportunities whilst maximising shareholder value.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including liquidity risk, credit risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk.
The Group operates controlled treasury policies which are monitored by the management to ensure that the needs of the Group are met while minimising potential adverse effects of unpredictability of financial markets on the Groups financial performance.
Liquidity and funding risk The objective of the Company in managing funding risk is to ensure that it can meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due.
At the year end there was no debt outstanding and the Company, with its strong balance sheet, had good access to capital markets, if required.
Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances, royalty instruments held as financial assets, trade and other receivables and investments.
These represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its other receivables, including royalty receivables.
It is the policy of the Group to present the amounts in the balance sheet net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and the current economic environment.
Where possible the Group has registered its interests against the relevant mining titles for the royalties it has acquired.
In addition, the Group is generally entitled to full reconciliations of amounts paid and retains the right to audit the royalty returns and verify the calculations.
The Groups credit risk on royalty instruments held as financial instruments, has been reviewed and the estimated current exposure is as disclosed in note 17 where the future contractual right to cash flow from these instruments is reflected in their fair value.
The credit risk on bank deposits is limited because the counterparties have high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of currencies and counterparties.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
