18 Report of the Directors Directors report as amended from time to time, and the applicable laws of England and in nature, depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, or Wales the UK Rules and files on its SEDAR profile at www.
include words such as expects, anticipates, plans, believes, com any documents required to be filed or furnished pursuant to the estimates, seeks, intends, targets, projects, forecasts, or UK Rules.
negative versions thereof and other similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as may, will, should, would and could.
Technical reports Forward-looking statements are based upon certain material factors The scientific and technical information in this Annual Report relating that were applied in drawing a conclusion or making a forecast or to the Panorama coal project and the Trefi coal project was derived, projection, including assumptions and analyses made by the Group respectively, from the technical report entitled Resource Estimate in light of its experience and perception of historical trends, current for the Discovery and Panorama Coal Properties dated July 12, 2010 conditions and expected future developments, as well as other the Panorama and Discovery Report and the technical report factors that are believed to be appropriate in the circumstances.
The entitled Resource Estimate for the Trefi Coal Property dated March material factors and assumptions upon which such forward-looking 18, 2010 the Trefi Report, each of which was prepared by Mr Robert statements are based include: the stability of the global economy: the J. Morris, Principal Geologist, and Mr Robert F. Engler, Principal, Moose stability of local governments and legislative background: the relative Mountain Technical Services.
Each of Messrs Morris and Engler is a stability of interest rates: the equity and debt markets continuing to qualified person for the purposes of NI 43-101 and is independent provide access to capital: the continuing of ongoing operations of the of the Company.
Each of the Panorama and Discovery Report and the properties underlying the Groups portfolio of royalties by the owners Trefi Report is available on the Companys SEDAR profile at or operators of such properties in a manner consistent with past www.
practice: the accuracy of public statements and disclosures including feasibility studies, estimates of reserve, resource, production, grades, Third party information mine life and cash cost made by the owners or operators of such As a royalty holder, the Group often has limited, if any, access to nonunderlying properties: no material adverse change in the price public scientific and technical information in respect of the properties of the commodities underlying the Groups portfolio of royalties underlying its portfolio of royalties, or such information is subject to and investments: no material adverse change in foreign exchange confidentiality provisions.
As such, in preparing this Annual Report, exposure: no adverse development in respect of any significant the Group has relied upon the public disclosures of the owners and property in which the Group holds a royalty or other interest, including operators of the properties underlying its portfolio of royalties, as but not limited to unusual or unexpected geological formations and available at the date of this Annual Report.
natural disasters: successful completion of new development projects: References in this Annual Report to websites are made as inactive planned expansions or additional projects being within the timelines textual references and for informational purposes only.
Information anticipated and at anticipated production levels: and maintenance of found at the relevant websites is not incorporated by reference into mining title.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future this Annual Report.
The Group makes no representation as to the performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, which accuracy of any such information.
could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or intended in the forward-looking statements.
Cautionary statement on forward-looking statements and By its nature, this information is subject to inherent risks and related information uncertainties that may be general or specific and which give rise to Certain statements in this Annual Report, other than statements the possibility that expectations, forecasts, predictions, projections or of historical fact, are forward-looking statements based on certain conclusions will not prove to be accurate: that assumptions may not assumptions and reflect the Groups expectations and views of be correct and that objectives, strategic goals and priorities will not be future events.
Forward-looking statements which include the phrase achieved.
A variety of material factors, many of which are beyond the forward-looking information are provided for the purposes of Groups control, affect the operations, performance and results of the assisting readers in understanding the Groups financial position Group, its businesses and investments, and could cause actual results and results of operations as at and for the periods ended on certain to differ materially from those suggested by any forward-looking dates, and of presenting information about managements current information.
Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited expectations and plans relating to the future.
Readers are cautioned to current global financial conditions, royalty portfolio and associated that such forward-looking statements may not be appropriate for risk, adverse development risk, financial viability and operational other purposes than outlined in this Annual Report.
These statements effectiveness of owners and operators of the relevant properties may include, without limitation, statements regarding the operations, underlying the Groups portfolio of royalties, royalties subject to other business, financial condition, expected financial results, cash flow, rights, and contractual terms not being honoured, together with requirement for and terms of additional financing, performance, those risks identified in the Risks and uncertainties and Financial prospects, opportunities, priorities, targets, goals, objectives, instruments sections herein and the other risks identified in the Risk strategies, growth and outlook of the Group including the outlook Factors section of the Groups most recent Annual Information Form for the markets and economies in which the Group operates, costs available on www.
com and the Groups website and timing of acquiring new royalties, mineral reserve and resources www.
If any such risks actually occur, they estimates, estimates of future production, production costs and could materially adversely affect the Groups business, financial revenue, future demand for and prices of precious and base metals condition or results of operations.
Readers are cautioned that the list and other commodities, for the current fiscal year and subsequent of factors noted in the section herein entitled Risks and uncertainties periods.
In addition, statements relating to reserves or resources is not exhaustive of the factors that may affect the Groups forwardare forward-looking statements, as they involve implied assessment, looking statements.
Readers are also cautioned to consider these and based on certain estimates and assumptions, that the resources and other factors, uncertainties and potential events carefully and not to reserves described can be profitably produced in the future.
put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include statements that are predictive This Annual Report also contains forward-looking information Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
