68 Accounts Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own advice from your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Anglo Pacific Group PLC, please forward this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Anglo Pacific Group PLC the Company will be held at the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, 1 Moorgate Place, London EC2R 6EA, United Kingdom on Thursday April 19, 2012 at 11.00 am to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 1 to 14 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 15 and 16 will be proposed as special resolutions:- 1.
To receive and adopt the Companys audited accounts and the reports of the directors and the auditors for the year ended December 31, 2011.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended December 31, 2011.
To declare a final dividend of 5.50p per ordinary share of the Company recommended by the directors.
To re-elect M. H. Atkinson as a director of the Company.
To re-elect P. M. Boycott as a director of the Company.
To re-elect A. C. Orchard as a director of the Company.
To re-elect J. Theobald as a director of the Company.
To re-elect J. G. Whellock as a director of the Company.
To re-elect B. M. Wides as a director of the Company.
To re-elect A. H. Yadgaroff as a director of the Company.
T o re-appoint Messrs Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of next the general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the auditors of the Company.
THAT the board of directors of the Company the Directors be and they are hereby authorised to offer the holders of ordinary shares of 2p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory or otherwise the right to elect to receive new Ordinary Shares instead of cash in respect of all or part of the final dividend for the year ended December 31, 2011 and all other dividends declared up to the beginning of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 727,928 provided that this authority unless previously revoked or renewed shall expire on the earlier of April 19, 2017 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2017, save that the Company may before such expiry or the expiry of any renewal of this authority make any offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted, or rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into shares to be granted, after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares or grant such rights in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired, and provided further that this authority shall be in substitution for the authority conferred by a resolution dated April 13, 2011 to the extent unused and shall supersede and revoke any other earlier authorities under section 551 of the Act.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 14, the Directors be and they are hereby generally empowered pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any securities into, Ordinary Shares wholly for cash a by selling equity securities held by the Company as treasury shares: or b by allotting new equity securities pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 14, as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities: i to the holders of Ordinary Shares in proportion as nearly may be practicable to their respective holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems in or under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 218,378, and this power shall unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company expire at the close of business on the date which is 15 months after the date on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company next held following the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if this power had not expired.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting Accounts 69 Notice of Annual General Meeting 16.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors think fit, subject to the following restrictions and provisions:- a the aggregate maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 10,918,921: b the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount being not more than the higher of: i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchanges Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased, and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out, in each case exclusive of any associated expenses: c the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is its nominal value exclusive of any associated expenses : d unless pr eviously renewed, revoked or varied, this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013 or eighteen months from the date on which this resolution is passed, whichever shall be the earlier: e the Company may enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract which purchase would or might be completed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority: and f any Ordinary Shares so purchased shall be cancelled or, if the Directors so determine and subject to the provisions of any applicable laws or regulations, held as treasury shares.
Registered Office By Order of the Board 17 Hill Street P. T. J. Mason London Company Secretary W1J 5LJ March 9, 2012 Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
