Accounts Accounts 41 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 Royalty instruments classified as available-for-sale are measured at subsequent reporting dates at their fair value.
For royalties classified in this manner gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity within the investment revaluation reserve, until the royalty is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is reclassified in the profit or loss for the period.
For royalty instruments which contain an embedded derivative, these derivatives are separated and measured as assets at fair value through profit or loss, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income statement.
The fair values of such instruments are assessed with reference to the relevant factors, which include, inter alia, equity prices in active markets, production profiles, commodity prices and management representations.
These assets are reviewed regularly to ensure that the initial classification remains correct given the asset characteristics and the Groups investment policies.
These assets may be initially recognised using transaction price as the best evidence of fair value at acquisition: however, embedded derivatives are valued at acquisition and are recognised separately from the host royalty instrument see note 17.
All royalty instruments, except those held at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for impairment at least at each reporting date and the assessment includes variables such as the instruments valuation in active markets, production profiles, commodity prices and management representations.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their fair value on initial recognition.
After initial recognition these are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
2.10 Current and deferred income tax The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated by using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from initial recognition of goodwill on business combinations.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
2.11 Share based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options and jointly-owned shares of the Company.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: including any market performance conditions: excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions: and including the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options and jointly-owned shares that are expected to vest.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At the end of each reporting period, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options and jointly-owned shares that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When options are exercised, the Company issues new shares.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
