Melrose PLC 118 Annual Report 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR make any arrangements which they consider necessary IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT AS TO or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU SHOULD CONSULT entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical YOUR STOCKBROKER, BANK, SOLICITOR, ACCOUNTANT, problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any FUND MANAGER OR OTHER APPROPRIATE INDEPENDENT other matter, FINANCIAL ADVISER.
such authorities to apply until the end of the Companys next If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Melrose Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if PLC you should send this document as soon as possible to the earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2013 but, in each purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the agreements before the authority expires which would, or might, purchaser or transferee.
require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority expires Notice is hereby given that the ninth Annual General Meeting of the and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights under any Company will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00 am on 9 May 2012 for the following purposes.
Resolutions 1 to 13 will be proposed as Special resolutions ordinary resolutions and resolutions 14 to 16 as special resolutions.
That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of resolution 13, the Directors be generally empowered Ordinary resolutions to allot equity securities as defined in the Act for cash pursuant 1.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements for the to the authority granted by resolution 13 and or to sell ordinary financial year ended 31 December 2011, together with the shares in the capital of the Company held by the Company as Directors report and the auditors report on those financial treasury shares for cash in each case free of the restriction in statements.
section 561 1 of the Act, such power to be limited: 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration report contained in the Companys Annual Report and financial statements for the year A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury ended 31 December 2011. shares for cash in connection with an offer of equity 3.
To declare a final dividend of 8.4p per ordinary share for the year securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant to the ended 31 December 2011. authority granted by paragraph B of resolution 13, such 4.
To re-elect Mr Christopher Miller as a Director of the Company.
power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in 5.
To re-elect Mr David Roper as a Director of the Company.
connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : 6.
To re-elect Mr Simon Peckham as a Director of the Company.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 7.
To re-elect Mr Geoffrey Martin as a Director of the Company.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 8.
To re-elect Mr Miles Templeman as a Director of the Company.
ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the 9.
To re-elect Mr Perry Crosthwaite as a Director of the Company.
rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as 10.
To re-elect Mr John Grant as a Director of the Company.
the Directors otherwise consider necessary, 11.
To elect Mr Justin Dowley as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions office from the conclusion of this meeting until the and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, at which accounts are laid and to authorise the Directors to record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under determine their remuneration.
the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and 13.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the B to the allotment otherwise than in the circumstances set powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and out in paragraph A of this resolution of equity securities grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph A of shares in the Company: resolution 13 and or the sale of treasury shares for cash up A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 331,724: and to a nominal amount of 49,758, B comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act up to an aggregate such power to apply until the end of the Companys next nominal amount of 663,448 such amount to be reduced Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if by the aggregate nominal amount of any allotments or earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2013 but so grants made under paragraph A of this resolution in that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: before the power expires which would, or might, require equity i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the be practicable to their existing holdings: and power expires and the Directors may allot equity securities and ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as power had not expired.
the Directors otherwise consider necessary, and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and 21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised Notes to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of 1.
The holders of ordinary shares and 2009 Incentive Shares in the section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company are entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting, but Company provided that: only holders of ordinary shares are entitled to vote.
The holders of Non-Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares of 75 pence A the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares each and C Deferred Shares of 75 pence each in the capital of authorised to be purchased is 39,096,104 representing the Company shall not be entitled to attend, speak or vote at the 10% of the issued ordinary share capital : Annual General Meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote B the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share may appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, shall not be less than the nominal value of an ordinary share speak and vote at a general meeting of the Company.
Such a at the time of such purchase: member may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each C the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different is not more than the higher of: shares.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the 2.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
To be effective, a London Stock Exchange plcs Daily Official List for the form of proxy must be completed and returned, together with five business days immediately preceding the day on any power of attorney or authority under which it is completed or which the ordinary share is purchased: and a certified copy of such power or authority, so that it is received ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade by the Companys registrars at the address specified on the form and the highest current independent bid on the trading of proxy not less than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that venue where the purchase is carried out, is not a working day before the time for holding the meeting.
Returning a completed form of proxy will not preclude a member in each case, exclusive of expenses: from attending the meeting and voting in person.
D this authority will expire at the end of the next Annual 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person General Meeting of the Company following the passing of nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement 30 June 2013 : between him and the shareholder by whom he was nominated, E the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary have a right to be appointed or to have someone else shares under this authority before expiry of the authority appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right expiry of that authority, and may make a purchase of or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract: and agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder F any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in the Company, depending on which course of action is paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated considered by the Directors to be in the best interests of Persons.
The rights described in paragraphs 1 and 2 can only shareholders at the time.
be exercised by ordinary shareholders of the Company.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting 4.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
and for the purposes of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on By order of the Board Registered office the Companys register of members by 6.00 pm on 4 May 2012 Precision House or, in the event of an adjournment, on the date which is two days Arden Road before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries Alcester on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in B49 6HN determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
As at 7 March 2012, the Companys issued share capital consists of i 390,961,043 ordinary shares, carrying one Garry Barnes vote each, and ii 50,000 2009 Incentive Shares of 1 each, Company Secretary 1,392,194 Non-Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares of 7 March 2012 75 pence each and 34,331,656 C Deferred Shares of 75 pence each in the capital of the Company, each of which shall not carry a right to vote on the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 7 March 2012 are 390,961,043.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 120 Annual Report 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward 7.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message time when it makes the statement available on the website.
a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been specifications, and must contain the information required for required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
Any member holding ordinary shares attending the meeting of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed such questions relating to the business being dealt with at the proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.00 am on interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the 4 May 2012.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: the message by the CREST Application Host from which the or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to order of the meeting that the question be answered.
CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST 13.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section should be communicated to the appointee through other 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
You may not use an electronic address provided in either this 8.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & including the Proxy Form to communicate with the Company Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST 15.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member Companys registered office during normal business hours concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be prior to and during the meeting: necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, A copies of all service agreements under which Directors CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors of the Company are employed by the Company or any or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those subsidiaries: and sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations B a copy of the terms of appointment of the non-executive of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction 16.
You may register your vote online by visiting Equinitis website at in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the www.
In order to register your vote online, you Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. will need to enter the Task ID, together with your Voting ID and Shareholder Reference Number which are set out on the enclosed 10.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more Proxy Form.
The return of the Proxy Form by post or registering corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all your vote online will not prevent you from attending the Annual of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in General Meeting and voting in person, should you wish.
Alternatively, relation to the same shares.
shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically 11.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and then requirements set out in that section have the right to require clicking on the link to vote under their Melrose PLC holding details.
the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out The on-screen instructions give details on how to complete the any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts appointment process.
A proxy appointment made electronically will including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii received after 11.00 am on 4 May 2012.
