Melrose PLC 68 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of Melrose PLC the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 were authorised in accordance with a resolution of the Directors of Melrose PLC on 7 March 2012.
Melrose PLC the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 121.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5.
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company is based.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2010 in these financial statements has been restated to include the results and cash flows of the Dynacast segment along with four businesses previously shown in the Other Industrial segment: namely Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp, within discontinued operations.
1.1 New Standards and Interpretations affecting amounts, presentation or disclosure reported in the current period During the period, the Group adopted three new or revised Standards and Interpretations, none of which significantly affected the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Details of the Standards and Interpretations that were adopted are set out in section 1.2.
1.2 New Standards and Interpretations adopted with no significant effect on financial statements The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements, but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IAS 24 revised : Related party disclosures Amendments to IFRIC 14: Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010 1.3 New Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations are in issue but not yet effective: Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of items of other comprehensive income Amendments to IAS 12: Deferred tax recovery of underlying assets IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits IAS 27 revised : Separate financial statements IAS 28 revised : Investments in associates and joint ventures Amendments to IFRS 7: Financial instruments disclosures IFRS 9: Financial instruments IFRS 10: Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11: Joint arrangements IFRS 12: Disclosure of interest in other entities IFRS 13: Fair value measurement Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application, except as follows: IAS 19 revised will impact the measurement of the various components representing movements in the defined benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures, but not the Groups total obligation.
Following the adoption of IAS 19 revised, effective from 1 January 2013, the net retirement benefit obligation in the Balance Sheet will not be impacted but the net finance cost of pensions, within the Income Statement, will increase.
This will reduce profit for the year and accordingly increase Other Comprehensive Income.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments which are recognised at fair value.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for these assets.
The principal accounting policies adopted are consistent with the prior year and are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements include the results of the parent undertaking and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of businesses acquired during the period are included from the effective date of acquisition and for those sold during the period to the effective date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All inter-Group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the noncontrolling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Directors statement of going concern on page 48 of the Directors report.
Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the fair value of assets given, the liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange of control and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Costs directly attributable to business combinations are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement as incurred.
The acquired identifiable assets and liabilities are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition except those where specific guidance is provided by IFRSs.
Non-current assets and directly attributable liabilities that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Also, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12: Income taxes, liabilities and assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 19: Employee benefits and liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payments awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2: Share-based payments.
Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts where appropriate.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum period of one year.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 70 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units acquired.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
When there is a disposal of a cash-generating unit, goodwill relating to the operation disposed of is taken into account in determining the gain or loss on disposal of that operation.
The amount of goodwill allocated to a partial disposal is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the operation retained.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity which is not a subsidiary undertaking but the interest of the Group is that of a partner in a business over which the Group exercises joint control.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Revenue Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Where percentage of completion accounting is applied and where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the Balance Sheet date.
This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest applicable.
Exceptional costs income Exceptional costs income are those costs income of a significant and non-recurring nature or those associated with significant restructuring programmes, acquisitions or disposals.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after exceptional operating costs and income, intangible asset amortisation and the Groups share of results of joint ventures, but before finance income and finance costs.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Issue costs of loans The finance cost recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the issue costs of borrowings is allocated to periods over the terms of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, and any costs directly attributable to bring the asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold land nil Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over expected economic life not exceeding 50 years Short leasehold property over the term of the lease Plant and equipment 312 years The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists an impairment review is performed and, where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds or costs and the carrying amount of the item is included in the Income Statement in the year that the item is derecognised.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
On acquisition of businesses, separately identifiable intangible assets are determined in relation to the specific circumstances of the business acquired and are valued on an appropriate basis.
Access to the use of patented technology and trade names are valued using a relief from royalty method which determines the net present value of future additional cash flows arising from the use of the intangible asset.
Customer relationships are valued on the basis of the net present value of the future additional cash flows arising from customer relationships with appropriate allowance for attrition of customers.
The estimated useful lives of intangible assets are: Computer software 5 years or less Patented technology 5 years or less Customer relationships 10 years or less Trade names 20 years or less Computer software is initially recorded at cost.
Where these assets have been acquired through a business combination, this will be the fair value allocated in the acquisition accounting.
Where these have been acquired other than through a business combination, the initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Computer software assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses are measured on a similar basis to property, plant and equipment.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Research and development costs Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Costs relating to clearly defined and identifiable development projects are capitalised when there is a technical degree of exploitation, adequacy of resources and a potential market or development possibility in the undertaking that are recognisable: and where it is the intention to produce, market or execute the project.
A correlation must also exist between the costs incurred and future benefits and those costs can be measured reliably.
Capitalised expenses are expensed on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
Costs not meeting such criteria are expensed as incurred.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 72 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and appropriate production overhead expenditure incurred in bringing goods to their current state under normal operating conditions.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provisions have been made for obsolescence or other expected losses where necessary.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables and other receivables are measured and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
The carrying amount of other receivables is reduced by the impairment loss directly and a charge is recorded in the Income Statement.
For trade receivables, the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account and changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade receivables that are assessed not to be impaired individually are also assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting receipts, an increase in the number of delayed receipts in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions and shortterm deposits which are readily convertible to cash which are subject to insignificant risks of changes in value.
For the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant periods.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash payments throughout the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity risks, arising from operating and financing activities.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 24 of the financial statements.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are detailed in note 25.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Their fair value is recalculated at each reporting date.
The accounting treatment for the resulting gain or loss will depend on whether the derivative meets the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
Where derivatives do not meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on the revaluation to fair value at the period end are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Where derivatives do meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss on revaluation depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of less than one year from the period end date are classified as current in the Balance Sheet.
Hedge accounting In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document from inception the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument and to show that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Fair value hedge Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedge Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to the variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted cash flow.
The effective portion of any gain or loss from revaluing the derivative financial instrument is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts previously recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity are recycled to the Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement or the hedged relationship is discontinued.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from revaluing the derivative at a reporting period end is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised immediately in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of or the hedged relationship is discontinued.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Environmental liabilities Liabilities for environmental costs are recognised when environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated.
Generally, the timing of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action.
The amount recognised is the best estimate of the expenditure required.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, the amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 74 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Employee benefits Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
The accounting policy for pensions and other retirement benefits is described below.
The Group also operates long term incentive plans LTIPs for Directors and certain employees.
The expected settlement costs of these plans are expensed on a straight-line basis over the life of the plans.
Pensions and other retirement benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans, some of which require contributions to be made to administered funds separate from the Group.
In some jurisdictions, funds are not administered separately from the Group but appropriate liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet.
For the defined benefit pension and retirement benefit plans, plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
Any assets resulting from this calculation are limited to past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The service cost of providing pension and other retirement benefits to employees for the period is charged to the Income Statement.
A charge representing the unwinding of the discount on the plan liabilities during the period is included within finance costs.
A credit representing the expected return on the plan assets during the period is included within finance costs.
This credit is based on the market value of the plan assets, and expected rates of return, at the beginning of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between the expected return and the actual return on plan assets: differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the period: or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For defined contribution plans, contributions payable are charged to the Income Statement as they fall due as an operating expense.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each Balance Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
Nonmonetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the Income Statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the related operation is disposed of.
Any exchange differences that have previously been attributed to non-controlling interests are derecognised but they are not reclassified to the Income Statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rate prevailing at the Balance Sheet date.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Taxation The tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the period and represents the sum of the tax paid or currently payable and deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except: where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill that is not tax deductible or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred tax asset arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the relevant Balance Sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and not in the Income Statement.
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except: where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Balance Sheet.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2: Share-based payments.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value of the equity instrument excluding the effect of nonmarket based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of the BlackScholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 76 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Non-current assets and businesses held for sale Non-current assets and businesses classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and businesses are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or business is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In applying the Groups accounting policies as set out in note 2, management has made critical accounting judgements in the quantification of provisions, the impairment of non-current assets and the valuation of retirement benefit obligations and taxation.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making assumptions and estimates, actual outcomes will differ from those assumptions and estimates.
An analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is provided below.
Provisions The quantification of certain liabilities within provisions environmental remediation obligations and future costs and settlements in relation to certain legal claims have been estimated using the best information available.
However, such liabilities depend on the actions of third parties and on the specific circumstances pertaining to each obligation, neither of which is controlled by the Group.
Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted for managements best current estimates, the judgemental nature of these items means that future amounts settled may be different from those provided.
Further details are set out in note 6 and note 20.
Impairment of non-current assets Goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts might be impaired and at least annually.
Such events and circumstances include the effects of restructuring initiated by management.
To determine whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill and other intangible assets has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Such calculations require judgement relating to the appropriate discount factors and long term growth prevalent in a particular market as well as short and medium term business plans.
The Directors draw upon experience as well as external resources in making these judgements.
The carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets including computer software at the Balance Sheet date was 906.1 million 31 December 2010: 1,181.6 million.
At 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group recognised no impairment loss in respect of these assets.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefits are accounted for under IAS 19: Employee benefits.
For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
Because of changing market and economic conditions, the expenses and liabilities actually arising under the plans in the future may differ materially from the estimates made on the basis of these actuarial assumptions.
Therefore, declining returns on equity markets and markets for fixed-income instruments could necessitate additional contributions to the plans in order to cover future pension obligations.
Also, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life of participants may have an impact on the amount of pension income or expense recorded in the future.
The interest rate used to discount retirement benefit obligations to present value is derived from the yields of senior, high-quality corporate bonds at the Balance Sheet date.
These generally include AA-rated securities.
The discount rate is based on the yield of a portfolio of bonds whose weighted residual maturities approximately correspond to the duration necessary to cover the entire benefit obligation.
Pension and other retirement benefits are inherently long term and future experience may differ from the actuarial assumptions used to determine the net charge for retirement benefit obligations.
Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements describes the principal discount rate, earnings increase and pension retirement benefit obligation assumptions that have been used to determine the net charge for retirement benefit obligations in accordance with IAS 19.
The calculation of any charge relating to retirement benefit obligations is clearly dependent on the assumptions used, which reflects the exercise of judgement.
The assumptions adopted are based on prior experience, market conditions and the advice of plan actuaries.
At 31 December 2011, the Groups retirement benefit obligation deficit was 117.7 million 31 December 2010: 119.6 million.
Further details on the sensitivities and assumptions are discussed in the Finance Directors review on pages 23 to 30.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Taxation The Group is subject to income tax in most of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Management is required to exercise judgement in determining the Groups provision for income taxes.
Managements judgement is required in estimating tax provisions where additional current tax may become payable in the future following the audit by the tax authorities of previously filed tax returns.
Managements judgement is also required as to whether a deferred tax asset should be recognised based on the availability of future taxable profits.
While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue, as defined by IAS 18, is as follows: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Notes m m Continuing operations Revenue from the sale of goods 1,122.4 1,020.5 Revenue recognised on long-term contracts 31.5 14.9 Revenue 5 1,153.9 1,035.4 Finance income 7 10.0 9.3 Total revenue from continuing operations as defined by IAS 18 1,163.9 1,044.7 Discontinued operations Revenue from the sale of goods 177.4 337.4 Revenue recognised on long-term contracts 0.4 6.7 Revenue 5,9 177.8 344.1 Finance income 0.5 Total revenue from discontinued operations as defined by IAS 18 178.3 344.1 Total revenue as defined by IAS 18 1,342.2 1,388.8 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
Segment information Segment information is presented in accordance with IFRS 8: Operating segments which requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reported to the Groups Board in order to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
The Groups reportable operating segments under IFRS 8 are as follows: Energy Lifting Other Industrial The Energy segment incorporates the Turbogenerators now including the Hawker Siddeley Switchgear business unit and Marelli business units, specialist suppliers of energy industrial products to the global market.
The Lifting segment consists of the businesses of Bridon, Crosby and Acco, serving oil & gas production, mining, petrochemical, alternative energy and general construction markets.
The Other Industrial segment consists of the businesses of Truth, Harris and MPC primarily serving the housing, scrap processing, engineered plastic and automotive markets.
There are two central cost centres which are also separately reported to the Board: Central corporate 1 Central LTIPs 1 Long Term Incentive Plans.
The Central corporate cost centre contains the Melrose Group head office costs whilst the Central LTIPs cost centre contains the costs associated with the 2009 Melrose Incentive Scheme and the divisional management LTIP schemes that are in operation across the Group.
The discontinued segment incorporates the Dynacast segment along with four businesses previously shown in the Other Industrial segment: namely Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 78 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Segment information continued Transfer prices between business units are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The Groups geographical segments are determined by the location of the Groups non-current assets and, for revenue, the location of external customers.
Inter-segment sales are not material and have not been included in the analysis below.
The following tables present revenue, profit, and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2011 and the comparative period.
Note 6 gives details of exceptional costs and income.
Segment revenues and results Segment revenue from external customers 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Notes m m Continuing operations Energy 461.6 427.5 Lifting 484.4 422.7 Other Industrial 207.9 185.2 Total continuing operations 4 1,153.9 1,035.4 Discontinued operations 4,9 177.8 344.1 Total revenue 1,331.7 1,379.5 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
Segment result 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Notes m m Continuing operations Energy 91.1 73.7 Lifting 82.6 66.7 Other Industrial 23.1 21.8 Central corporate 9.2 8.6 2 Central LTIPs 6.8 6.6 3 Headline operating profit 180.8 147.0 Intangible asset amortisation 23.7 24.1 Exceptional costs 6 40.1 10.3 Exceptional income 6 21.4 Operating profit 117.0 134.0 Finance costs 7 29.6 34.6 Finance income 7 10.0 9.3 Profit before tax 97.4 108.7 Tax 8 17.4 5.0 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 9 171.7 37.6 Profit for the year 286.5 141.3 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
3 As defined on the Income Statement.
Segment information continued Total assets Total liabilities 1 1 Restated Restated 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Energy 641.0 643.7 231.6 216.0 Lifting 767.3 750.4 212.3 190.1 Other Industrial 121.5 117.2 41.7 48.0 Central corporate 251.7 243.4 632.2 678.4 2 Central LTIPs 15.3 12.5 Total continuing operations 1,781.5 1,754.7 1,133.1 1,145.0 Discontinued operations 389.1 115.9 Total 1,781.5 2,143.8 1,133.1 1,260.9 1 Restated to include the total assets and total liabilities of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
1 1 Capital expenditure Depreciation 2 2 Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Continuing operations Energy 11.4 9.4 7.9 8.0 Lifting 21.3 9.8 8.8 9.4 Other Industrial 6.5 4.8 5.8 5.9 Central corporate 0.2 0.6 0.7 Total continuing operations 39.2 24.2 23.1 24.0 Discontinued operations 3.6 7.7 4.1 8.9 Total 42.8 31.9 27.2 32.9 1 Including computer software.
1 1 2 Restated to include the capital expenditure and depreciation of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 80 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Segment information continued Geographical information The Group operates in various geographical areas around the world.
The Groups country of domicile is the UK and the Groups revenues and non-current assets in Europe and North America are also considered to be material.
The Groups revenue from external customers and information about its segment assets non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and non-current trade and other receivables by geographical location are detailed below: 1 Revenue from external customers Non-current assets 2 Restated 2 Year ended year ended Restated 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m UK 195.2 156.5 367.0 362.4 Europe 287.6 294.1 321.7 339.6 North America 463.5 419.8 422.2 430.2 Other 207.6 165.0 10.5 9.8 Total continuing operations 1,153.9 1,035.4 1,121.4 1,142.0 Discontinued operations 177.8 344.1 293.3 Total 1,331.7 1,379.5 1,121.4 1,435.3 1 Revenue is presented by destination.
2 Restated to include the revenue and non-current assets of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
Exceptional costs and income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Exceptional costs m m Continuing operations Increase in legal provision 21.0 Restructuring costs 15.9 5.9 Acquisitions and disposals of businesses 3.2 0.4 Defined benefit pension plan disposal 4.0 Total exceptional costs 40.1 10.3 During the year, a legal provision, in respect of two Bridon companies, in connection with product liability litigation in the US inherited, in part, from the FKI acquisition has been increased to 25.8 million US $40.0 million.
Noble Drilling Services Noble is claiming from Bridon and its US distributor for alleged losses arising from Hurricane Ike causing two offshore drilling rigs secured by Bridon ropes to break station in the Gulf of Mexico.
The operator of the wells, Anadarko Petroleum Corp. then opportunistically joined the litigation seeking to recover alleged losses of its own from all parties, including Noble, but the court endorsed Bridons analysis that this claim was meritless and dismissed it in full by way of summary judgement.
The amount of the Noble claim is US $104 million which, based on legal and factual analysis, Bridon considers to be grossly inflated.
Bridon intends to vigorously defend against all claims asserted against it at trial, which is set for later this year, and has robust defences to all allegations.
In the event of an adverse ruling, Bridon already has a number of strong grounds for appeal, which itself could take a further six to eighteen months.
Bridon has an insurance programme of up to 105 million US$163 million at 31 December 2011 that may be available to respond and Bridon is currently in discussions with its insurers in relation to the extent of this coverage.
During 2011, the Group incurred 15.9 million 2010: 5.9 million of costs relating to restructuring programmes which include the integration of the Hawker Siddeley Switchgear business into the Turbogenerators business within the Energy division, the reorganisation of the Brush facility in the Netherlands also within the Energy division and, within the Lifting division, the restructuring at Bridons Doncaster works following the large scale investment to relocate certain activities from Doncaster to the newly invested Neptune Energy Park facility in Newcastle upon Tyne.
Exceptional costs and income continued Costs associated with acquisitions and disposals of businesses consist predominately of the expenses arising during the aborted process to acquire Charter International plc and the costs associated with the return of capital following the disposal of Dynacast.
In addition, the Group incurred two exceptional cash costs during the year, both were fully anticipated and fully provided and represented two exceptional liabilities that were acquired with FKI plc.
The first related to the transfer of 10.4 million, at a cash cost of 9.0 million, of FKI captive insurance liabilities to an external party so that the Group has no further exposure to these risks.
The second related to a legal settlement in respect of an historical FKI owned company, DeWind GmbH, paid in two tranches totalling 10.4 million.
On 12 February 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Generator & Motor Services of Pennsylvania, LLC.
Also during 2010, the Prelok France business was disposed of.
A net loss of 0.2 million was incurred which included a cumulative exchange gain of 0.1 million recycled from equity.
In 2010, the Group entered into a buyout arrangement to dispose of the liabilities of the Bridon Group Senior Executive Plan for 4.0 million in excess of the IAS 19 carrying value of plan net liabilities.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Exceptional income m m Continuing operations Pension curtailment gain 13.1 FKI captive insurance commutation gain 5.6 Net release of provisions 2.7 Total exceptional income 21.4 In 2010, it was announced to the members that the FKI UK Pension Plan would be closed to the accrual of future benefits for existing members on 28 February 2011, resulting in a curtailment gain of 13.1 million in that year.
In 2010, a gain of 5.6 million was generated by the commutation of certain insurance policies within the FKI captive insurance company.
The net release of provisions of 2.7 million during 2010 represented the release of a provision set up on the acquisition of FKI net of an additional environmental and legal provision.
Revenues and expenses Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 1 1 1 Restated Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Net operating expenses comprise: m m m m m m Selling and distribution costs 79.2 76.6 5.5 10.6 84.7 87.2 Administration expenses 104.7 104.5 12.9 28.6 117.6 133.1 Share of results of joint ventures note 14 0.4 0.4 Other operating costs exceptional 40.1 10.3 40.1 10.3 Other operating income exceptional 21.4 21.4 Total net operating expenses 224.0 170.4 18.4 39.2 242.4 209.6 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 82 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Revenues and expenses continued Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 1 1 1 Restated Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Operating profit is 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 stated after charging: m m m m m m Depreciation and impairment 24.3 23.3 3.9 8.7 28.2 32.0 Cost of inventories 812.9 731.0 133.4 257.5 946.3 988.5 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 12 23.7 24.1 1.4 2.5 25.1 26.6 Amortisation of computer software note 12 0.6 0.7 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.9 Operating lease expense 7.9 7.5 2.7 4.4 10.6 11.9 Staff costs 283.3 271.7 45.6 95.8 328.9 367.5 Research and development costs 2.0 2.4 2.0 2.4 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.4 0.3 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.6 0.6 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.8 Total audit fees 1.2 1.4 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Taxation compliance services 0.4 0.3 Other taxation advisory services 1.2 1.0 Corporate finance services 1.0 1.1 Other services 0.2 0.2 Total non-audit fees 2.8 2.6 Fees for the audit of the Companys accounts represent fees payable to Deloitte LLP in respect of the audit of the Companys individual financial statements and the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Corporate finance services include due diligence and other transaction related services.
Revenues and expenses continued 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Staff costs during the year including executive Directors : Wages and salaries 237.5 223.3 Social security costs 35.0 32.0 Pension costs defined benefit plans 0.4 3.9 defined contribution plans 10.4 12.5 Total continuing staff costs 283.3 271.7 2 Discontinued staff costs 45.6 95.8 Total staff costs 328.9 367.5 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
2 Includes 0.2 million 2010: 0.4 million of defined benefit pension costs and 0.5 million 2010: 1.9 million of defined contribution pension costs.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Number Number Average monthly number of persons employed including executive Directors Energy 3,341 3,277 Lifting 3,079 2,917 Other Industrial 1,670 1,650 Central corporate 33 33 Total continuing operations 8,123 7,877 Discontinued operations 1,884 3,297 Total average number of persons employed 10,007 11,174 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Notes m m Finance costs and income Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 25.7 27.2 Amortisation of costs of raising finance 2.5 2.3 Interest on obligations under finance leases 0.1 Net finance cost of pensions 0.3 3.3 Unwind of discount on provisions 20 1.1 1.7 Total finance costs 29.6 34.6 Finance income 4 10.0 9.3 Total continuing operations 19.6 25.3 2 Discontinued operations 9 0.3 0.8 Total net finance costs 19.3 26.1 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
2 Includes 0.2 million 2010: 0.8 million net finance cost of pensions.
The finance cost of pensions in the continuing Group is the interest cost on benefit obligations of 52.6million net of the expected return on plan assets of 52.3million 2010: 55.1 million and 51.8 million respectively.
The interest cost on discontinued defined benefit obligations was 0.2 million and the expected return on plan assets was nil 2010: 2.2 million and 1.4 million respectively.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 84 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Tax Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 1 1 1 Restated Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Analysis of credit charge in year: m m m m m m Current tax 5.9 16.3 7.2 12.5 1.3 28.8 Deferred tax note 21 11.5 11.3 0.2 3.5 11.7 14.8 Total income tax credit charge 17.4 5.0 7.0 9.0 10.4 14.0 2 Tax charge on headline profit before tax 41.4 34.5 7.8 9.9 49.2 44.4 Exceptional tax credit 38.1 23.5 38.1 23.5 Tax credit charge on net exceptional items 7.6 4.3 7.6 4.3 Tax credit in respect of intangible asset amortisation 13.1 10.3 0.8 0.9 13.9 11.2 Total income tax credit charge 17.4 5.0 7.0 9.0 10.4 14.0 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
2 As defined on the Income Statement.
The tax credit for the year ended 31 December 2011 charge for the year ended 31 December 2010 includes an exceptional tax credit of 38.1 million 2010: 23.5 million.
Of this exceptional tax credit, 28.6 million 2010: nil relates to the change in the Companys expectation of the outcome of overseas tax audits inherited on the acquisition of FKI and 9.5 million 2010: 23.5 million relates to the recognition of a previously unrecognised deferred tax asset during the period that is now considered to be recoverable.
The income tax rate for the current year is lower 2010: lower than the average standard rate of corporation tax in the UK for the year of 26.5% 2010: 28.0%.
The differences are explained in the following table: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax: Continuing operations 97.4 108.7 Discontinued operations note 9 26.3 46.6 123.7 155.3 Tax on profit on ordinary activities at UK corporate tax rate 26.5% 2010: 28.0% 32.8 43.5 Tax effect of: Net permanent differences 1.7 1.2 Adjustment in respect of foreign tax rates 3.7 0.2 Effect of UK rate change on deferred tax liability 7.2 3.8 Timing differences not recognised in deferred tax 0.6 2.9 Prior year tax adjustments 3.9 0.3 Exceptional tax credit 38.1 23.5 Total tax credit charge for the year 10.4 14.0 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
In addition to the amount credited charged to the Income Statement, a tax credit of 16.8 million 2010: 7.9 million has been recognised directly in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
This represents a tax credit of 12.0 million 2010: 8.1 million in respect of retirement benefit obligations, a tax credit of 1.5 million 2010: charge of 0.2 million in respect of movements on cash flow hedges and a tax credit of 3.3 million 2010: nil in respect of the use of losses on items taken directly to reserves in prior years.
A tax charge of 0.8 million arising on the disposal of businesses has been included, as a cost of disposal, in the net gain on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations note 9.
Discontinued operations Disposal of businesses On 19 July 2011, the Group completed the disposal of the Dynacast business for a cash consideration of US $590.0 million 366.5 million.
The costs charged during the year associated with the disposal were 12.8 million and the profit on disposal in the year was 150.5 million after the recycling of cumulative translation differences of 51.4 million.
In addition, disposal costs of 2.3 million were paid during the year which had been accrued in 2010.
During the year, the Group also disposed of four other businesses: namely Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp, previously shown within the Other Industrial segment.
The cash consideration received for these businesses was 24.0 million and the costs incurred were 1.8 million, including 0.8 million of tax charged on the disposal of the assets of Brush Traction.
The profit on disposal of these businesses was 1.9 million after the recycling of cumulative translation differences of 1.2 million.
Financial performance of discontinued operations: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Revenue 177.8 344.1 Operating costs 150.4 294.2 2 Headline operating profit 27.4 49.9 Intangible asset amortisation 1.4 2.5 Net finance income costs 0.3 0.8 Profit before tax 26.3 46.6 Headline tax 7.8 9.9 Tax on intangible asset amortisation 0.8 0.9 Profit after tax 19.3 37.6 Cumulative translation differences recycled on disposals 52.6 Gain on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 99.8 Profit for the period from discontinued operations 171.7 37.6 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 171.6 37.4 Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.2 171.7 37.6 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
2 As defined in the Income Statement.
During the year, up until its sale on 19 July 2011, the Dynacast business contributed 164.0 million of revenue and 26.4 million of headline operating profit.
The disposed businesses from the Other Industrial segment contributed 13.8 million to revenue and 1.0 million to headline operating profit up to the point of sale.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 86 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Discontinued operations continued The major classes of assets and liabilities disposed of during the year were as follows: Other Discontinued Dynacast Industrial operations m m m Goodwill and other intangible assets 223.8 16.4 240.2 Property, plant and equipment 40.1 7.6 47.7 Inventories 24.1 7.6 31.7 Trade and other receivables 51.9 11.9 63.8 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 0.5 Total assets disposed of 339.9 44.0 383.9 Trade and other payables 65.6 22.0 87.6 1 Tax 4.8 4.8 Retirement benefit obligations 10.5 0.1 10.6 Provisions 3.2 0.4 3.6 Non-controlling interests 1.2 1.2 Total liabilities disposed of 85.3 22.5 107.8 Net assets disposed of 254.6 21.5 276.1 2 Cash consideration net of costs 353.7 22.2 375.9 Gain on disposal of net assets 99.1 0.7 99.8 Cumulative translation differences recycled on disposals 51.4 1.2 52.6 Profit on disposal of businesses 150.5 1.9 152.4 1 Includes 1.7 million of net deferred tax assets.
2 In addition 2.3 million of cash costs were incurred on the disposal of Dynacast which had been accrued in 2010.
Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of nil 2009: 4.8p 23.9 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 paid of 7.0p 2009: nil 34.8 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 paid of 4.6p 2010: 4.0p 18.0 19.9 52.8 43.8 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 8.4p 2010: 7.0p 32.8 34.8 A final dividend of 8.4p was proposed by the Board on 7 March 2012 and, in accordance with IAS 10, has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
In addition to dividends paid, shareholders approved a 373.2 million return of capital on 8 August 2011 of which 372.1 million was paid on 19 August 2011.
Earnings per share 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Earnings attributable to owners of the parent m m Profit for the purposes of earnings per share 286.4 141.1 Less: profit for the year from discontinued operations note 9 171.6 37.4 Earnings for basis of earnings per share from continuing operations 114.8 103.7 Continuing operations Intangible asset amortisation 23.7 24.1 Exceptional costs note 6 40.1 10.3 Exceptional income note 6 21.4 2 Exceptional tax 58.8 29.5 2 Earnings for basis of headline earnings per share from continuing operations 119.8 87.2 Discontinued operations Profit for the period from discontinued operations note 9 171.6 37.4 Profit on disposal of businesses 152.4 Intangible asset amortisation 1.4 2.5 Tax on intangible asset amortisation 0.8 0.9 2 Earnings for basis of headline earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations 139.6 126.2 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
Number Number Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share million 455.3 497.6 1 Further shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share million 30.1 25.3 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share million 485.4 522.9 1 Relating to the 2009 Melrose Incentive Scheme.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Earnings per share pence pence Basic earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 62.9 28.4 From continuing operations 25.2 20.8 From discontinued operations 37.7 7.6 Diluted earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 59.0 27.0 From continuing operations 23.7 19.8 From discontinued operations 35.3 7.2 2 Headline basic earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 30.7 25.4 2 Headline diluted earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 28.8 24.1 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 88 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Goodwill has been allocated to the business segments, each of which comprises several cash-generating units, as follows: 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Energy 247.3 252.1 Lifting 298.8 299.7 Other Industrial 22.4 22.3 Discontinued 224.0 568.5 798.1 1 Restated to include the goodwill of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period.
The Group estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to each cash-generating unit.
The growth rates are based on a prudent estimate of long term industry growth forecasts.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from financial budgets approved by management and extrapolates pre-tax cash flows based on estimated growth rates of between 2% and 3% 2010: 2% and 3%.
This rate does not exceed the average long term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The pre-tax discount rate applied is between 9% and 10% 2010: 8% and 10% depending on the risk elements associated with each cash-generating unit.
The key assumptions used in forecasting pre-tax cash flows relate to future budgeted revenue and operating margins likely to be achieved and likely rates of long-term growth by market sector.
Budgeted revenue and operating margins are based on views on past performance, secured orders and orders likely to be achieved in the short to medium-term, given trends in the relevant market sector.
No impairment was identified and a reasonable possible change in the assumptions applied would not result in any impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 112.6 225.8 338.4 Acquisition 0.3 0.3 Additions 3.8 26.9 30.7 Disposals 6.3 6.3 Disposal of businesses 0.5 0.5 Exchange adjustments 1.1 3.9 5.0 At 31 December 2010 117.5 250.1 367.6 Additions 3.6 37.6 41.2 Disposals 0.1 2.1 2.2 Disposal of businesses 16.4 92.6 109.0 Exchange adjustments 1.7 2.3 4.0 At 31 December 2011 102.9 190.7 293.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2010 6.4 79.7 86.1 Charge for the period 3.4 28.6 32.0 Disposals 5.7 5.7 Disposal of businesses 0.2 0.2 Exchange adjustments 0.3 1.4 1.7 At 31 December 2010 10.1 103.8 113.9 Charge for the period 3.3 23.1 26.4 1 Impairments 1.4 0.4 1.8 Disposals 0.1 1.8 1.9 Disposal of businesses 4.7 56.6 61.3 Exchange adjustments 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2011 10.0 68.3 78.3 Net book value At 31 December 2011 92.9 122.4 215.3 At 31 December 2010 107.4 146.3 253.7 At 1 January 2010 106.2 146.1 252.3 1 In respect of assets held in the Brush facility, in the Netherlands, impaired following the restructuring programme in 2011 see note 6.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 90 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Interests in joint ventures 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Aggregated amounts relating to joint ventures: Total assets 3.9 0.4 Total liabilities 4.3 0.8 Interests in joint ventures 0.4 0.4 Share of joint venture revenues 3.2 0.8 Share of results of joint ventures 0.4 Dividends received 0.3 Interests in joint ventures are in a net liability position and are therefore recognised within current liabilities.
A list of all the significant investments in subsidiaries including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 3 to the Companys separate financial statements.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Raw materials 53.3 54.3 Work in progress 77.9 79.6 Finished goods 74.6 82.4 205.8 216.3 The Directors consider that there is no material difference between the Balance Sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost.
Construction contracts 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Contracts in progress at the Balance Sheet date: Amounts due from contract customers included in other receivables 2.9 4.9 Amounts due to contract customers included in other payables 5.2 2.9 0.3 Contract costs incurred plus recognised profit less recognised losses to date 19.0 26.1 Less: progress billings 16.1 26.4 2.9 0.3 The average life of contracts is 12 years 31 December 2010: 23 years.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Current m m Trade receivables 195.9 231.5 Allowance for doubtful receivables 3.2 6.6 Other receivables 9.1 13.1 Prepayments 14.5 19.7 216.3 257.7 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing.
Credit terms offered to customers vary upon the country of operation but are generally between 30 and 90 days.
31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Non-current m m Other receivables 0.3 1.9 An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts made with reference to past default experience and managements assessment of creditworthiness, an analysis of which is as follows: 1 Other 1 Energy Lifting Industrial Central Discontinued Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 2.8 1.4 0.9 0.1 2.9 8.1 Income Statement charge 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.4 1.2 Utilised 0.8 0.6 0.3 1.2 2.9 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2010 2.2 1.1 0.9 0.2 2.2 6.6 Disposal of businesses 2.1 2.1 Income Statement charge 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.8 Utilised 1.0 0.6 0.1 0.1 0.2 2.0 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 1.4 0.9 0.8 0.1 3.2 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the large number of customers and because they are unrelated to each other.
Credit control procedures are implemented to ensure that sales are only made to organisations that are willing and able to pay for them.
Such procedures include the establishment and review of customer credit limits and terms.
The Group does not hold any collateral or any other credit enhancements over any of its trade receivables nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 92 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other receivables continued The ageing of impaired trade receivables past due is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Ageing of impaired trade receivables past due m m 030 days 0.4 1.3 3160 days 0.3 0.9 60 days 2.5 4.4 3.2 6.6 Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are overdue trade receivables with a carrying amount of 37.3 million 31 December 2010: 43.4 million against which an appropriate provision of 3.2 million 31 December 2010: 6.6 million is held.
The balance deemed recoverable of 34.1 million 31 December 2010: 36.8 million is past due as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m 030 days 23.3 25.9 3160 days 5.8 6.5 60 days 5.0 4.4 34.1 36.8 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables, including amounts not past due and not impaired, approximates to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Cash and cash equivalents 195.6 195.7 Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank and in hand which earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates and short-term deposits which are made for varying periods of between one day and one month and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The carrying amount of these assets is considered to be equal to their fair value.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Current m m Trade payables 144.0 160.5 Other payables 54.4 87.8 Other taxes and social security 7.4 11.5 Accruals 70.2 95.5 276.0 355.3 Trade payables are non-interest bearing.
Normal settlement terms vary by country and the average credit period taken for trade purchases is 91 days 2010: 95 days.
Other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of approximately 60 days.
31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Non-current m m Other payables 3.3 Accruals 1.6 1.4 1.6 4.7 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Details of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency risk are included in note 24.
Current Non-current Total 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Fixed rate obligations 1 Bank borrowings Euro loan Austria 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Floating rate obligations 2 Bank borrowings US Dollar loan 390.1 388.5 390.1 388.5 3 Bank borrowings Euro loan 48.6 50.3 48.6 50.3 4 Bank borrowings Sterling loan 27.7 22.3 50.0 50.0 50.0 27.7 461.0 488.8 488.7 488.8 Redeemable preference C shares 1.1 1.1 Unamortised finance costs 3.5 6.0 3.5 6.0 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 28.8 0.3 457.5 482.8 486.3 483.1 1 Interest rate 1.50%, repaid June 2011.
2 Interest rate LIBOR 1.35%, final maturity April 2013.
3 Interest rate EURIBOR 1.35%, final maturity April 2013.
4 Interest rate LIBOR 1.35%, final maturity April 2013.
During 2011, the Group utilised a 750 million multi-currency committed bank facility that provided term loan and revolving credit facilities through to 22 April 2013.
A number of Group companies act as guarantors to this facility.
Drawdowns bear interest at interbank rates of interest plus a margin determined by reference to the Groups performance under its debt cover covenant ratio and ranges between 1.25% and 2.35%.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 94 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued Throughout the year, the Group remained compliant with all covenants under these facilities.
The term loan facility is fully drawn down having originally been set at 500 million.
In 2009, the Group repaid and cancelled US $80 million of this term loan facility following the disposal of the Logistex business.
On 22 December 2011, the Group agreed a new five year banking facility.
On 31 January 2012, all amounts outstanding on the original facility were repaid using surplus cash in the Group at that time and by partially utilising the new facility.
The new facility is a 600 million, multi-currency, committed, revolving credit facility.
A number of Group companies continue to act as guarantors under the new facility.
Drawdowns bear interest at interbank rates of interest plus a margin determined by reference to the Groups performance under its debt cover covenant ratio and ranges between 1.20% and 2.00%.
The interest rate re-pricing profile of financial liabilities, after taking into account hedging interest rate derivatives, is described in note 24.
As described in note 25, the 1,392,194 redeemable preference C shares will be redeemed on 30 April 2012 at a value of 1.1 million.
In accordance with applicable accounting standards, the liability is not included in net debt.
Maturity of financial liabilities The maturity profile of anticipated future cash flows including interest in relation to the Groups financial liabilities, on an undiscounted basis and which, therefore, differs from both the carrying value and fair value is shown in the table below.
Interest on floating rate debt is based on the relevant LIBOR curve for US Dollar and Sterling balances and EURIBOR curve for Euro balances.
Interest on hedging interest rate swaps is based on the relevant forward LIBOR curve for US Dollar amounts and EURIBOR curve for Euro amounts and is illustrated as a net cash flow.
Interestbearing Derivative Other loans and financial financial Total financial borrowings liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m Within one year 38.7 14.1 268.6 321.4 In one to two years 464.2 1.6 1.6 467.4 Effect of financing rates 16.6 16.6 31 December 2011 486.3 15.7 270.2 772.2 Within one year 10.3 8.3 343.8 362.4 In one to two years 40.8 3.7 4.7 49.2 In two to three years 466.2 0.2 466.4 Effect of financing rates 34.2 34.2 31 December 2010 483.1 12.2 348.5 843.8 20.
Provisions Surplus Environmental Incentive FKI leasehold and scheme captive property costs legal costs related insurance Other Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2010 26.4 57.7 12.5 11.0 11.1 118.7 Disposal of businesses 2.1 1.5 3.6 1 Utilised 5.2 16.0 2.2 11.0 4.8 39.2 2 Arising in the year 21.0 5.0 17.6 43.6 Unwind of discount note 7 0.6 0.5 1.1 Exchange differences 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2011 19.7 63.7 15.3 21.9 120.6 Current 4.7 31.6 21.9 58.2 Non-current 15.0 32.1 15.3 62.4 19.7 63.7 15.3 21.9 120.6 3 1 Includes 37.6 million of provisions utilised by cash and 1.6 million through headline operating profit.
3 2 Includes 35.1 million of provisions arising in the year through exceptional costs note 6 and 8.5 million of provisions arising in the year through headline operating profit.
Provisions continued The provision for surplus leasehold property costs represents the estimated net payments payable over the term of these leases together with any dilapidation costs.
This is expected to result in cash expenditure over the next one to seven years.
Environmental and legal costs provisions relate to the estimated remediation costs of pollution, soil and groundwater contamination at certain sites and estimated future costs and settlements in relation to legal claims.
Due to their nature, it is not possible to predict precisely when these provisions will be utilised.
Incentive scheme related provisions are in respect of long term incentive plans for divisional senior management, expected to result in cash expenditure in the next three to four years.
The FKI captive insurance provision related to known and actuarial assessments of future claims covered by the captive including, but not limited to, public and product liability, employers liability in the UK, workers compensation in the US and US automotive claims.
Following the sale of these liabilities, within the year, at 31 December 2011 the Group has no further exposure to these claims.
Other provisions relate primarily to costs that will be incurred in respect of restructuring programmes and warranty provisions.
Where appropriate, provisions have been discounted using a discount rate of 3% 31 December 2010: 3%.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period.
Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated capital allowances Deferred tax Tax losses and and other on intangible Total deferred Total net other assets liabilities assets tax liabilities deferred tax Notes m m m m m At 1 January 2010 22.1 12.4 112.9 125.3 103.2 Credit to income 8 2.6 1.0 11.2 12.2 14.8 Credit charge to other comprehensive income 8.1 0.2 0.2 7.9 Acquisition 0.3 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences 0.2 0.2 1.1 1.3 1.1 At 31 December 2010 33.0 12.1 102.8 114.9 81.9 Credit charge to income 8 2.1 4.3 13.9 9.6 11.7 Credit to other comprehensive income 12.0 1.5 1.5 13.5 Disposal of businesses 6.6 0.2 4.7 4.9 1.7 Exchange differences 0.1 0.6 0.6 0.5 At 31 December 2011 40.4 14.7 83.6 98.3 57.9 As at 31 December 2011, the Group has gross unused losses of 201.4 million 31 December 2010: 251.7 million available for offset against future profits.
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of certain unused losses during the year.
At 31 December 2011, an 8.9 million deferred tax asset 31 December 2010: nil in respect of 35.0 million of these gross losses remains in the Balance Sheet.
No asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to the divisional and geographic split of anticipated future profit streams.
The majority of these losses may be carried forward indefinitely subject to certain continuity of business requirements.
A significant part of the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the Group accounts relates to the FKI UK Pension Plan, the McKechnie UK Pension Plan and the FKI US Pension Plan.
A deferred tax asset of 18.4 million 31 December 2010: 12.9 million has been recognised on these obligations, being the extent to which they are expected to generate tax deductions against foreseeable profits.
As at 31 December 2011, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 3.4 million 31 December 2010: 4.5 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 96 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Share-based payments Melrose 2009 Incentive Scheme The Company has 50,000 2009 Incentive Shares held by Directors, employees and the Melrose Employee Benefit Trust.
Further details of the scheme are provided in the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 59.
The estimated fair value attributable to the 2009 Incentive Shares formerly the 2007 Incentive Shares, using a BlackScholes option pricing model, at 31 December 2011 was 99.4 million 31 December 2010: 70.7 million.
The inputs into the BlackScholes model that were used to fair value the scheme when it was originally established in 2007 were as follows: Valuation assumptions Weighted average share price 1.67 Weighted average exercise price 1.00 Expected volatility 25.0% Expected life as at inception 4.8yrs Risk free interest 2.0% Expected dividend yield 3.2% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price.
The Group recognised an IFRS 2 charge of 1.8 million 2010: 1.8 million in relation to the Melrose 2009 Incentive Scheme in the year ended 31 December 2011.
Retirement benefit obligations Melrose holds several pension plans covering many of its employees, operating in several jurisdictions.
The most significant defined benefit plans are: The FKI UK Pension Plan is defined benefit in type and is a funded plan where the future liabilities for members benefits are provided for by the accumulation of assets held externally to the Group in separate trustee administered funds.
The plan is closed to new members and on 28 February 2011 was closed to the accrual of future benefits for existing members.
The McKechnie UK Pension Plan is defined benefit in type and is a funded plan other than 3.5 million of unfunded liabilities where the future liabilities for members benefits are provided for by the accumulation of assets held externally to the Group in separate trustee administered funds.
The plan is closed to the accrual of future benefits.
The FKI US Pension Plan is defined benefit in type and is a funded plan where the future liabilities for members benefits are provided for by the accumulation of assets held externally to the Group in separate trustee administered funds.
Other plans include a number of funded and unfunded defined benefit arrangements across Europe.
Further details of the status of the significant plans are disclosed in the Directors report on page 44.
Upon the sale of Dynacast and Logistex UK, 41.1 million of plan obligations and 30.5 million of plan assets were disposed.
The cost of the Groups defined benefit plans is determined in accordance with IAS 19 with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries on the basis of formal actuarial valuations using the projected unit credit method.
In line with normal practice, these valuations are undertaken triennially in the UK and annually in the US.
The valuations are based on the UK full actuarial valuations as of 31 December 2008 updated at 31 December 2011 by independent actuaries and US full actuarial valuations as of 31 December 2010 updated at 31 December 2011 by independent actuaries.
The next formal UK valuations as at 31 December 2011 are currently being undertaken.
The Group also operates unfunded retiree medical and welfare benefit plans, principally in the US.
The Company contributes 18.5 million per annum to the FKI UK Pension Plan and 4.6 million per annum to the McKechnie UK Pension Plan.
Retirement benefit obligations continued In addition to this, there are a number of defined contribution plans across the Group.
Contributions during the year were 10.9 million 2010: 14.4 million.
Actuarial assumptions The major weighted average assumptions used by the actuaries in calculating the Groups pension plan assets and liabilities are as set out below: 31 December 2011 FKI UK McKechnie FKI US US Retiree Plan UK Plan Plan Benefit Plans Other plans % p. a.
1 Rate of increase in salaries n a 3.60 n a n a n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.00 3.10 n a n a n a Discount rate 4.90 4.90 4.30 4.00 4.60 RPI inflation assumption 3.10 3.10 2.75 n a 2.50 1 Closed to the accrual of future benefits but active members benefits are still linked to current salaries.
31 December 2010 FKI UK McKechnie FKI US US Retiree Plan UK Plan Plan Benefit Plans Other plans % p. a.
Rate of increase in salaries 4.00 3.95 3.50 n a 3.00 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.30 3.45 n a n a 3.22 Discount rate 5.55 5.55 5.10 5.10 5.44 RPI inflation assumption 3.45 3.45 2.75 n a 3.41 Mortality FKI UK Pension Plan Mortality assumptions for the most significant plan in the Group, the FKI UK Plan, as at 31 December 2011 are based on 90% of the heavy Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS tables, reflecting the plan membership being largely employed in the industrial sector.
Future improvements are in line with 80% 60% for women of the Long Cohort, subject to a minimum underpin of 1% p. a.
The assumptions are that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 20.3 years if they are male and for a further 23.7 years if they are female.
For a member who retires in 2036 at age 65, the assumptions are that they will live for a further 22.8 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 26.0 years after retirement if they are female.
The mortality assumptions are in line with those adopted for the triennial valuation results as at 31 December 2008.
Sensitivities Sensitivities around movements in the principal assumptions of the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality are discussed in the Finance Directors review on page 28.
Balance Sheet disclosures The amount recognised in the Balance Sheet arising from net liabilities in respect of defined benefit plans is as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Plan liabilities 1,076.7 1,039.4 1,033.5 939.7 148.4 Plan assets 959.0 919.8 864.4 810.5 123.2 Limit on pension plan surplus 14.1 Net liabilities 117.7 119.6 169.1 143.3 25.2 21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 98 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The five year history of experience adjustments is as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 72.4 23.8 130.9 70.7 1.2 Experience adjustments on plan assets 35.3 37.6 41.0 78.9 2.3 The plan liabilities and assets at 31 December 2011 were split by plan as follows: FKI UK McKechnie FKI US US Retiree Other Plan UK Plan Plan Benefit Plans plans Total m m m m m m Plan liabilities 679.7 154.5 228.7 0.9 12.9 1,076.7 Plan assets 600.3 157.5 195.2 6.0 959.0 Net liabilities assets 79.4 3.0 33.5 0.9 6.9 117.7 This amount is presented in the Balance Sheet: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Net liabilities unfunded plans 11.2 21.0 24.2 45.2 4.1 funded plans 106.5 98.6 144.9 84.0 21.1 Limit on pension plan surplus 14.1 117.7 119.6 169.1 143.3 25.2 Expected returns and fair value of assets: Expected rates of return Fair value of assets 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 % % m m Equity instruments 7.0 8.4 348.7 411.1 Debt instruments 3.8 5.1 514.2 430.5 Other assets 4.4 3.4 96.1 78.2 Weighted average total 5.0 6.4 959.0 919.8 The expected return on plan assets at 31 December 2011 is based on market expectations at 1 January 2012 for returns on assets over the entire life of the obligation.
There is no self investment other than in relevant tracker funds either in the Groups own financial instruments or property or other assets used by the Group.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m At beginning of year 1,039.4 1,033.5 Disposal of businesses 41.1 Disposal of pension plan 18.3 Current service cost 0.6 4.3 Interest cost 52.8 57.3 Actuarial losses 72.4 23.8 Benefits paid 47.7 52.8 Plan curtailments 0.8 16.5 Currency losses 1.1 8.1 At end of year 1,076.7 1,039.4 Movements in the fair value of plan assets during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m At beginning of year 919.8 864.4 Disposal of businesses 30.5 Disposal of pension plan 22.3 Settlement contribution on disposal 4.9 Expected return on assets 52.3 53.2 Actuarial gains 35.3 37.6 Contributions 28.8 27.5 Benefits paid 47.7 52.8 Currency gains 1.0 7.3 At end of year 959.0 919.8 The actual return on plan assets was a gain of 87.6 million 2010: gain of 90.8 million.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 100 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Income Statement disclosures Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of these defined benefit plans are as follows: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Continuing operations 2 Included within headline operating profit: current service cost 0.4 3.9 net effects of curtailments and settlements 0.8 3.4 Included within net finance costs: interest cost 52.6 55.1 expected return on assets 52.3 51.8 Included within exceptional items: net effects of curtailments and settlements 9.1 Discontinued operations 2 Included within headline operating profit: current service cost 0.2 0.4 Included within net finance costs: interest cost 0.2 2.2 expected return on assets 1.4 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
Statement of Comprehensive Income disclosures The amount recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Actuarial losses on plan liabilities 72.4 23.8 Actuarial gains on plan assets 35.3 37.6 37.1 13.8 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is a total loss of 114.5 million 2010: loss of 77.4 million.
Financial instruments and risk management The table below sets out the Groups accounting classification of each category of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010: 1 Other 1 Energy Lifting Industrial Central Discontinued Total m m m m m m 31 December 2011 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 195.6 195.6 Trade receivables 94.0 74.6 24.0 0.1 192.7 Derivative financial assets 0.4 0.9 0.4 1.7 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 486.3 486.3 Derivative financial liabilities 8.6 1.0 0.3 5.8 15.7 Other financial liabilities 116.8 83.7 36.2 33.5 270.2 31 December 2010 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 195.7 195.7 Trade receivables 88.4 65.5 18.1 0.2 52.7 224.9 Derivative financial assets 2.3 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.6 3.9 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 482.8 0.3 483.1 Derivative financial liabilities 0.6 1.0 10.5 0.1 12.2 Other financial liabilities 105.3 79.8 37.6 40.8 85.0 348.5 1 Restated to include the financial assets and financial liabilities of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
Credit risk The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows: 1 Other 1 Energy Lifting Industrial Central Discontinued Total m m m m m m 31 December 2011 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 195.6 195.6 Trade receivables 94.0 74.6 24.0 0.1 192.7 Derivative financial assets 0.4 0.9 0.4 1.7 31 December 2010 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 195.7 195.7 Trade receivables 88.4 65.5 18.1 0.2 52.7 224.9 Derivative financial assets 2.3 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.6 3.9 1 Restated to include the financial assets of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and derivative financial assets which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counter-parties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Note 16 provides further details regarding the recovery of trade receivables.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 102 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Capital risk The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the Groups net debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 19, after deducting cash and cash equivalents, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy for managing liquidity rate risk is set out in the Finance Directors review.
Fair values The Directors consider that the financial assets and liabilities have fair values not materially different to the carrying values.
Foreign exchange contracts As at 31 December 2011, the Group held foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate expected exchange fluctuations on cash flows on sales to customers and purchases from suppliers.
These instruments operate as cash flow hedges unless the amounts involved are small.
The terms of the material currency pairs with total principals in excess of Sterling 1 million equivalent are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2011 2010 2010 Selling Average Selling Average currency hedged currency hedged millions rate millions rate Sell Australian Dollar Buy Sterling AUD 4.3 GBP AUD 1.60 AUD 4.6 GBP AUD 1.69 Sell Canadian Dollar Buy Sterling CAD 4.3 GBP CAD 1.60 CAD 6.1 GBP CAD 1.62 Sell Canadian Dollar Buy US Dollar CAD 1.9 USD CAD 0.99 Sell Chinese Renminbi Buy US Dollar CNY 10.3 USD CNY 6.43 Sell Czech Koruna Buy Euro CZK 160.0 EUR CZK 24.89 Sell Euro Buy Chinese Renminbi EUR 2.3 EUR CNY 8.74 Sell Euro Buy Czech Koruna EUR 16.8 EUR CZK 24.59 EUR 41.5 EUR CZK 25.34 Sell Euro Buy Sterling EUR 24.4 GBP EUR 1.15 EUR 16.4 GBP EUR 1.18 Sell Euro Buy US Dollar EUR 2.8 EUR USD 1.38 EUR 1.4 EUR USD 1.34 Sell Hong Kong Dollar Buy Sterling HKD 21.7 GBP HKD 12.11 Sell Norwegian Krone Buy Euro NOK 28.1 EUR NOK 7.86 Sell Norwegian Krone Buy Sterling NOK 56.9 GBP NOK 9.13 NOK 11.7 GBP NOK 9.58 Sell Polish Zloty Buy Sterling PLN 10.3 GBP PLN 4.70 Sell Singapore Dollar Buy US Dollar SGD 5.2 USD SGD 1.37 Sell South African Rand Buy Euro ZAR 34.7 EUR ZAR 10.51 ZAR 30.2 EUR ZAR 9.78 Sell South African Rand Buy Sterling ZAR 16.4 GBP ZAR 11.54 Sell Sterling Buy Czech Koruna GBP 87.1 GBP CZK 28.55 GBP 32.2 GBP CZK 29.89 Sell Sterling Buy Euro GBP 35.5 GBP EUR 1.15 GBP 11.8 GBP EUR 1.17 Sell Sterling Buy US Dollar GBP 1.1 GBP USD 1.58 GBP 1.3 GBP USD 1.57 Sell UAE Dirham Buy Sterling AED 7.5 GBP AED 5.64 Sell US Dollar Buy Canadian Dollar USD 4.9 USD CAD 0.99 USD 13.8 USD CAD 1.04 Sell US Dollar Buy Chinese Renminbi USD 1.6 USD CNY 6.43 USD 16.3 USD CNY 6.56 Sell US Dollar Buy Czech Koruna USD 4.2 USD CZK 18.50 USD 4.2 USD CZK 19.06 Sell US Dollar Buy Euro USD 6.4 EUR USD 1.38 USD 7.1 EUR USD 1.36 Sell US Dollar Buy Malaysian Ringgit USD 8.0 USD MYR 3.15 Sell US Dollar Buy Singapore Dollar USD 14.0 USD SGD 1.35 Sell US Dollar Buy Sterling USD 79.8 GBP USD 1.59 USD 67.5 GBP USD 1.54 The foreign exchange contracts all mature between January 2012 and August 2013.
The fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2011 was a net liability of 8.3 million 31 December 2010: net asset of 1.5 million.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Commodity swap contracts As at 31 December 2011, the Group held a number of copper swap contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges.
These swap contracts lock the Group into fixed copper prices to protect against fluctuations in the market price of copper.
The terms of the contracts are: Commodity swaps Commodity Total quantity Maturity Pricing Group pays Copper 150 tonnes 04 January 2012 Fixed price of US Dollar 8,809 per tonne Group receives Copper 150 tonnes 04 January 2012 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 150 tonnes 02 February 2012 Fixed price of US Dollar 7,698 per tonne Group receives Copper 150 tonnes 02 February 2012 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 150 tonnes 02 March 2012 Fixed price of US Dollar 7,405 per tonne Group receives Copper 150 tonnes 02 March 2012 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 170 tonnes 03 April 2012 Fixed price of US Dollar 7,395 per tonne Group receives Copper 170 tonnes 03 April 2012 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 60 tonnes 02 May 2012 Fixed price of US Dollar 7,323 per tonne Group receives Copper 60 tonnes 02 May 2012 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 60 tonnes 06 June 2012 Fixed price of US Dollar 7,327 per tonne Group receives Copper 60 tonnes 06 June 2012 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 50 tonnes 03 July 2012 Fixed price of US Dollar 7,330 per tonne Group receives Copper 50 tonnes 03 July 2012 Average LME price for the month The fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2011 was nil 31 December 2010: net asset of 0.2 million.
Hedge of net investments in foreign entities Included in interest-bearing loans at 31 December 2011 were the following amounts which were designated as hedges of net investments in the Groups subsidiaries in Europe and the USA and were being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risks.
Borrowings in local currency: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m US Dollar 390.1 388.5 Euro 48.6 50.3 Interest rate sensitivity analysis A one percentage point rise in market interest rates for all currencies would increase decrease profit before tax by the following amounts assuming the net debt as at the Balance Sheet date was outstanding for the whole year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Sterling 0.4 0.1 US Dollar 0.3 Euro 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 Interest rate risk management The Groups policy for managing interest rate risk is set out in the Finance Directors review.
In January 2009, the Group entered into a number of interest rate swaps to hedge US $546.0 million of US Dollar denominated bank debt into fixed rates of interest.
Under the terms of these swaps the Group will pay an average rate of 2.1% p. a. plus a 2.0% margin annually in arrears and receive 3 month US Dollar LIBOR plus 2.0% quarterly in arrears.
These swaps were all due to mature in January 2013.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 104 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued In April 2009, the Group also took out an interest rate swap to hedge 33.3 million of Euro denominated debt into fixed rates of interest.
The swap is structured in a similar way to the US Dollar interest rate swaps with the Group paying 2.6% plus a 2.0% margin annually in arrears and receiving 3 month EURIBOR plus 2.0% quarterly in arrears.
This swap was due to mature in April 2013.
A corresponding amount of debt drawn under the 500 million term loan is matched with these swaps.
These interest rate swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges and were highly effective throughout 2011.
The fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2011 was a net liability of 5.7 million 31 December 2010: net liability of 10.0 million.
In February 2012, the Group closed out the swap arrangements which were entered into in 2009 and entered into a number of new interest swaps to hedge US $231.0 million, 42.0 million and 105.0 million denominated bank debt.
These swaps mature in January 2017.
Under the terms of these swaps, the Group will pay annually in arrears 1.0% for US Dollar swaps, 1.1% for Euro swaps and 1.1% for Sterling swaps plus a margin of 1.5%.
These interest rate swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges.
Foreign currency risk The Groups policy for managing foreign currency risk is set out in the Finance Directors review on pages 29 and 30.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Currency risks are defined by IFRS 7 as the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial asset or liability will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The following table details the transactional impact of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date, illustrating the decrease increase in Group operating profit caused by a 10 cent strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling and a 10% strengthening of the Czech Koruna against Sterling compared to the year end spot rate.
The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
The Group operates in a range of different currencies, and those with a material impact are noted here: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m US Dollar 0.4 1.8 Euro 0.5 2.7 Czech Koruna 2.0 0.7 The following table details the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date, illustrating the decrease increase in Group equity caused by a 10 cent strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling and a 10% strengthening of the Czech Koruna against Sterling.
The Group operates in a range of different currencies, and those with a material impact are noted here: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m US Dollar 0.7 1.6 Euro 2.3 0.4 Czech Koruna 0.1 0.1 In addition, the change in equity due to a 10 cent strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling for the translation of net investment hedging instruments would be a decrease of 26.8 million 31 December 2010: 26.6 million and 4.4 million 31 December 2010: 4.7 million respectively.
However, there would be no overall effect on equity because there would be an offset in the currency translation of the foreign operation.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Fair value measurements recognised in the Balance Sheet Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the contracts.
Commodity swaps are measured using quoted forward commodity prices.
Interest rate swap contracts are measured using yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
The fair value is shown below.
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total m m m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign currency forward contracts 1.6 1.6 3.7 3.7 Commodity swaps 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 1.7 1.7 3.9 3.9 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign currency forward contracts 8.7 1.2 9.9 2.2 2.2 Commodity swaps 0.1 0.1 Interest rate swaps 5.3 0.4 5.7 6.1 3.9 10.0 14.1 1.6 15.7 8.3 3.9 12.2 The fair value of these are derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices and they therefore are categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy set out in IFRS 7.
Issued share capital and reserves 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Share Capital m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid 390,961,043 31 December 2010: 497,586,779 Ordinary Shares of 14 55p each 31 December 2010: 0.2p each 1.0 1.0 34,331,656 31 December 2010: nil C Deferred Shares of 75.0p each 25.7 50,000 31 December 2010: 50,000 2009 Incentive Shares of 1 each 0.1 0.1 26.8 1.1 On 8 August 2011 at a General Meeting, shareholders approved resolutions to return capital of 373.2 million to shareholders.
The return of capital took place by increasing the authorised share capital by 373.2 million through the issue of 497,586,779 redeemable preference C shares C Shares of 75.0p nominal value each and capitalising 220.1 million of the capital redemption reserve and 153.1 million of the share premium account to pay up in full the C Shares.
The C Shares were allotted on the basis of one C Share for each Ordinary Share of 0.2p each held on 8 August 2011.
Shareholders had the option to receive the cash value inherent in the C Share by way of income or the choice of two capital options.
As a result of the elections made by shareholders in respect of the return of capital: 461,862,929 C Shares were redeemed and subsequently cancelled with effect from 19 August 2011 1,392,194 C Shares will be redeemed on 30 April 2012 34,331,656 C Shares were paid a dividend which was paid on 19 August 2011 and these C Shares converted into C Deferred Shares Both the remaining 1,392,194 C Shares and the 34,331,656 C Deferred Shares carry no voting rights or rights to dividends.
In conjunction with the return of capital, on 9 August 2011 an 11 for 14 share consolidation took place which reduced the issued Ordinary Share capital to 390,961,043 shares of 14 55 pence each.
Redemption of the C Deferred Shares on 30 April 2012 will result in a 25.7 million transfer from share capital into the capital redemption reserve.
In addition, the 1,392,194 C Shares will be redeemed and cancelled on 30 April 2012 at a value of 1.1 million which will also be transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 106 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Issued capital and reserves continued The rights of each class of share are described in the Directors report.
Own shares The Trustee of the Melrose PLC Employee Benefit Trust EBT holds 500 2009 Incentive Shares of 1 each 31 December 2010: 500.
The Melrose PLC EBT also holds 19,862 Ordinary Shares of 14 55p each in Melrose PLC 31 December 2010: 25,279 Ordinary Shares of 0.2p each relating to unallocated shares following the crystallisation of the Original Incentive Scheme in August 2007.
The FKI EBT holds 124,232 Ordinary Shares of 14 55p each in Melrose PLC 31 December 2010: 158,114 Ordinary Shares of 0.2p each which arose upon disposal of its FKI plc shares when FKI plc was acquired by Melrose PLC.
Hedging and translation reserves The hedging and translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the foreign exchange movements of instruments designated as net investment hedges and cash flow hedges.
Hedging Translation reserve reserve Total Hedging and translation reserves Note m m m At 1 January 2010 0.1 71.7 71.6 Currency translation on net investments 8.0 8.0 Losses on cash flow hedges 7.8 7.8 Taxation adjustments to equity 0.2 0.2 Transfer to Income Statement on cash flow hedges 0.5 0.5 Transfer to Income Statement on disposal of foreign operations 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2010 8.6 79.6 71.0 Currency translation on net investments 0.4 17.7 17.3 Losses on cash flow hedges 0.1 0.1 Taxation adjustments to equity 1.5 1.5 Transfer to Income Statement on cash flow hedges 5.1 5.1 Transfer to Income Statement on disposal of foreign operations 9 52.6 52.6 At 31 December 2011 11.9 9.3 2.6 26.
Cash flow statement 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by continuing operations 2 Headline operating profit from continuing operations 180.8 147.0 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 22.5 23.3 Amortisation of computer software 0.6 0.7 Restructuring costs paid and decrease in other provisions 32.2 29.2 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 171.7 141.8 Increase decrease in inventories 20.4 12.2 Increase in receivables 16.9 34.7 Increase in payables 14.0 28.2 Cash generated by operations 148.4 147.5 Tax paid 22.9 23.7 Interest paid 26.0 25.6 Defined benefit pension contributions paid 24.9 25.5 Net cash from operating activities from continuing operations 74.6 72.7 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
Cash flow statement continued 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Cash flow from discontinued operations m m Cash generated from discontinued operations 24.3 51.0 Tax paid 3.8 3.5 Interest paid 0.3 Defined benefit pension contributions paid 3.9 2.0 Net cash from operating activities from discontinued operations 16.6 45.2 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 4.9 6.6 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 Interest received 0.5 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 0.2 0.2 Net cash used in investing activities from discontinued operations 4.6 6.7 Net movement in borrowing 0.3 0.5 Net cash used in financing activities from discontinued operations 0.3 0.5 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
Net debt reconciliation At Other Foreign At 31 December non-cash exchange 31 December 2010 Cash flow Disposals movements difference 2011 m m m m m m Cash 195.7 371.2 374.4 3.3 195.6 Debt due within one year 0.3 0.3 27.7 27.7 Debt due after one year 482.8 25.2 0.1 457.5 Net debt 287.4 370.9 374.4 2.5 3.2 289.6 27.
Commitments and contingencies Future total minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Amounts payable: Within one year 7.7 11.2 After one year but within five years 16.8 27.7 Over five years 10.3 20.6 34.8 59.5 Capital commitments At 31 December 2011, there were commitments of 18.9 million 31 December 2010: 7.2 million relating to the acquisition of new plant and machinery.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 108 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The Group did not enter into any significant transactions in the ordinary course of business with joint ventures during the current or prior year.
Sales to and purchases from Group companies are priced at arms length transactions and generally are settled on 30 day terms.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24: Related party disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration report on page 59.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits 3.0 3.1 Share-based payments 1.6 1.6 4.6 4.7 29.
Post Balance Sheet events There are no post Balance Sheet events which require disclosure.
Contingent liabilities Two Bridon companies that Melrose acquired as part of the acquisition of FKI plc have been sued in U. S. federal court in Houston, Texas, along with their American distributor, CertexUSA Inc. Certex, by Noble Drilling Services, Inc. Noble, a purchaser of wire anchor lines that were manufactured by Bridon prior to its acquisition by Melrose, sold by Certex and used by Noble to moor certain of its mobile, semisubmersible offshore drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.
Noble alleges that certain ropes were defective and broke during Hurricane Ike in 2008 when they should not have.
Noble claims approximately US $104 million in damages, based upon allegations of product defect which the court has ruled are governed by Louisiana law.
Bridon believes Nobles damages are grossly inflated and that the purported defect with the product did not cause the claimed damages rather Nobles use of the product in violation of industry requirements did so.
Bridon intends vigorously to defend against the claims asserted against it at trial and has robust defences to all allegations.
In a separate case previously consolidated with the Noble action before the same court, the lessee of the rigs, Anadarko Petroleum Corp. Anadarko opportunistically sued Noble, Bridon and Certex claiming that the rigs that employed these ropes were unseaworthy.
Bridons and Nobles legal and factual analysis of Anadarkos claim was that it was meritless and this analysis was endorsed by the court when it ruled in summary judgment on 2 March 2012 to dismiss Anadarkos claims in full, enter final judgment to that effect, and administratively close the case.
Discovery concluded on 15 December2011 and the trial of Nobles claims is scheduled for later this year.
Any appeal thereafter could itself be expected to take well over a year and Bridon considers it already has a number of strong grounds for appeal in the event of an adverse ruling.
Bridon has an insurance programme providing coverage of up to 105 million US $163 million at 31 December 2011 that may be available to respond should the Noble claim succeed and Bridon is currently in discussions with its insurers in relation to the extent of this coverage.
In recognition of the inherent risk associated with US litigation, Bridon has increased the legal provision to US $40 million in respect of this claim.
In addition, as a result of the acquisition of the McKechnie and FKI businesses, certain further contingent legal, environmental and tax liabilities were identified.
Whilst it is difficult to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of these claims, the Directors best estimate of the outcome of these claims has been included in the Balance Sheet.
The Group has contingent liabilities representing guarantees and contract bonds given in the ordinary course of business on behalf of trading subsidiaries.
No losses are anticipated to arise on these contingent liabilities.
