To propose the following ordinary resolution Note 9 : notice of meeting That in accordance with section 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act the Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Page Company, and all companies that are subsidiaries of the Company at the date on which this House, The Bourne Business Park, 1 Dashwood Lang Road, Addlestone, Weybridge, Surrey, KT15 Resolution 12 is passed or during the period when this Resolution 12 has effect, be generally 2QW on Friday 18 May 2012 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: and unconditionally authorised to: 1.
To receive the accounts and the reports of the directors and the auditors for the year ended 31 a make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates, as defined December 2011. in the 2006 Act, not exceeding 25,000 in total: 2.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary share capital of the Company for the year ended 31 b make political donations to political organisations other than political parties, as defined in December 2011 of 6.75p per share.
the 2006 Act, not exceeding 25,000 in total: and 3.
To elect Robin Buchanan as a director of the Company Note 8. c incur political expenditure, as defined in the 2006 Act, not exceeding 25,000 in total: 4.
To re-elect Steve Ingham as a director of the Company Note 8. during the period commencing on the date of passing this r esolution and ending on the 5.
To elect Andrew Bracey as a director of the Company Note 8. date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company provided that the authorised sum referred to in paragraphs a, b and c above, may be comprised of one or more 6.
To re-elect Ruby McGregor-Smith as a director of the Company Note 8. amounts in different currencies which, for the purposes of calculating the said sum, shall 7.
To re-elect Dr. Tim Miller as a director of the Company Note 8. be converted into pounds sterling at the exchange rate published in the London edition of the Financial Times on the date on which the relevant donation is made or expenditure 8.
To re-elect Reg Sindall as a director of the Company Note 8. incurred or the first business day thereafter or, if earlier, on the day on which the Company 9.
To propose the following ordinary resolution: enters into any contract or undertaking in relation to the same provided that, in any event, the aggregate amount of political donations and political expenditure made or incurred by That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 be received the Company and its subsidiaries pursuant to this Resolution shall not exceed 75,000. and approved.
To propose the following ordinary resolution Note 10 : 10.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the 11.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,046,509, provided that this authority, shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on 18 August 2013, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot shares and grant Rights pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexercised authorities previously granted to the directors to allot shares and grant Rights be and are hereby revoked.
To propose the following special resolution Note 11 : c the maximum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share in the That the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to section 570 and section Company as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to 560 of that Act for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 13 above be purchased: or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 561 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 18 August 2013 whichever is earlier unless previously renewed, varied or a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of securities in favour revoked by the Company in general meeting: and of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable e the Company may make a contract to purchase its ordinary shares under the authority to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority, which contract will or may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may purchase its by them on any such record date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional 16.
To propose the following special resolution Note 13 : entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas That a General Meeting other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of than 14 clear days notice.
shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter: and The Board consider that all the proposals to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a of this Resolution 14 likely to promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of 158,562, and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount Resolution 13 above, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or to 1,426,919 shares representing 0.5% of the existing issued share capital of the Company agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity excluding treasury shares.
securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred By order of the Board hereby had not expired.
To propose the following special resolution Note 12 : That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases Kelvin Stagg within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of ordinary shares of 1p Company Secretary each of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time Michael Page International plc to time determine, provided that: Page House, 1 Dashwood Lang Road a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be acquired is The Bourne Business Park 31,712,398 representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital Addlestone, Surrey, KT15 2QW of the Company as at 9 April 2012: Registered in England No.
3310225 9 April 2012 b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is 1p: 116 Notes 5.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting the Meeting may appoint another a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation a right under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated different shares held by him.
Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company, but must attend the Meeting to such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must attend the Meeting for your vote 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic to be counted.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person as your proxy using proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
Appointing a proxy does not preclude Manual on the Euroclear website www.
CREST Personal Members you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, 3.
A proxy form which may be used to make this appointment and give proxy instructions who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment accompanies this notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy one, please contact Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland network extras, lines are open Monday to Friday, 8.30am to 5.30pm.
If you require additional Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, copies you may photocopy the proxy.
as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed 4.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned together with any authority proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent under which it is executed or a copy of the authority certified or in some other way approved ID number RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in by the directors by one of the following methods: the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrar, at, PXS, determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham BR3 4TU: which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. service in accordance with the procedures set out in Note 6 below: and in each case must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service the board is standing for re-election, and in the cases of Robin Buchanan and Andrew providers should note that EUI does not make available special procedures in CREST Bracey for election, by the shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting.
Biographical for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply information on each of the directors is contained on pages 33 and 34 of the Annual Report in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST and Accounts.
The Chairman confirms that, following formal performance evaluation, all member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or directors standing for election re-election continue to perform effectively and demonstrate sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his commitment to the role.
CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to 9.
Resolution 12 political donations: ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular For the purpose of this resolution, political donations, political organisations and political time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or expenditure have the meanings given to them in Section 363-365 of the 2006 Act.
voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
In accordance with its Business Principles, it is the Companys policy not to make contributions to political parties.
There is no intention to change it.
Resolutions 3 to 8 election re-election of directors: constitutes a political party, a political organisation, political donations or political Resolutions 3 to 8 deal with the election re-election of the directors in accordance with the expenditure under the Companies Act 2006 is not easy to decide as the legislation UK Corporate Governance Code which has replaced the Combined Code on Corporate is capable of wide interpretation.
Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, Governance.
The Governance Code provides for all directors of FTSE 350 companies to paid leave for employees fulfilling public duties, and support for bodies representing the be subject to election re-election by their shareholders every year.
The Governance Code business community in policy review or reform, among other things, may fall within this.
applies on a comply or explain basis and applies to financial years beginning on or after Therefore, notwithstanding that the Company has not made a political donation in the 29 June 2010.
Accordingly, in keeping with the Boards aim of complying with the Code, past, and has no intention of, either now or in the future, making any political donation unless not in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, each member of or incurring any political expenditure in respect of any political party, political organisation or independent election candidate, the Board has decided to put forward Resolution 12 to renew the authority granted by shareholders at the last Annual General Meeting of the Company.
This will allow the Company to continue to support the community and put forward its views to wider business and Government interests without running the risk of being in breach of the law.
As permitted under the 2006 Act, Resolution 12 has also been extended to cover any of these activities by the Companys subsidiaries.
Resolution 13 directors authority to allot shares: If passed, Resolution 13 will give the directors authority to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,046,509 representing approximately 33% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at 9 April 2012 the latest practicable date before publication of this notice.
This power will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2013.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
As at the date of this letter the Company does not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
Resolution 14 disapplication of pre-emption rights: 12.
Resolution 15 buyback authority: Resolution 14 will give the directors authority to allot shares in the capital of the Company Resolution 15 gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares in the market pursuant to the authority granted under Resolution 13 for cash without complying with the preas permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The authority limits the number of shares that emption rights in the Companies Act 2006 in certain circumstances.
This authority will permit could be purchased to a maximum of 31,712,398 representing approximately 10% of the the directors to allot: Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at 9 April 2012 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice and sets minimum and maximum a shares up to a nominal amount of 1,046,509, representing one-third of the Companys prices.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the issued share capital on an offer to existing shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in each Company in 2013. case subject to adjustments for fractional entitlements and overseas shareholders as the directors see fit : and The dir ectors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter under review, taking into account the financial b shares up to a maximum nominal value of 158,562, representing approximately 5% of resources of the Company, the Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 9 April 2012 the latest practicable authority will be exercised only if the directors believe that to do so would result in an increase date prior to publication of this notice otherwise than in connection with an offer to existing in earnings per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
Listed companies pur chasing their own shares are allowed to hold them in treasury as an The directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups alternative to cancelling them.
No dividends are paid on shares while they are held in treasury Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year and no voting rights attach to treasury shares.
The Principles provide that companies should not issue for cash shares representing If Resolution 15 is passed at the Meeting, it is the Companys current intention to cancel all of in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three-year period, other the shares it may purchase pursuant to the authority granted to it.
However, in order to respond than to existing shareholders, without prior consultation with shareholders.
properly to the Companys capital requirements and prevailing market conditions, the directors will need to reassess at the time of any and each actual purchase whether to hold the shares in treasury or cancel them, provided it is permitted to do so.
As at 9 April 2012 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice, there were 22,882,584 warrants and options to subscribe for shares in the capital of the Company representing 7.2% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
If this authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares and the existing authority to purchase taken at last years AGM which expires at the end of this years AGM were to be exercised in full, these options would represent 8.0% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Resolution 16 length of notice for general meetings: 14.
To have the right to attend and vote whether in person or by proxy at the Meeting or adjourned meeting and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person may This is a resolution to allow the Company to hold general meetings other than Annual cast, a person must have his her name entered on the register of members by no later General Meetings on 14 days notice.
than 6.00 pm on 16 May 2012 or if the Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00 pm on the date Before the introduction of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009: which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after The Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the minimum notice period this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote and permitted by the 2006 Act for general meetings other than annual general meetings was the number of votes they may cast at the Meeting or adjourned meeting.
One of the amendments made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights 15.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise a person or persons Regulations was to increase the minimum notice period for general meetings of listed to act as its representative s at the Meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the companies to 21 days, but with an ability for companies to reduce this period back to 14 Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation days other than for annual general meetings provided that two conditions are met.
The the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the first condition is that the Company offers a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
This condition is met if the Company offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
The second condition is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from 21 16.
As at 9 April 2012 being the latest business day prior to the publication of this notice, days to 14 days.
the Companys issued share capital consists of 317,181,520 ordinary shares.
The Employee Benefit Trust holds 10,548,099 ordinary shares of the Company carrying The Board is therefore proposing Resolution 16 as a special resolution to approve 14 days no voting rights.
No shares are held in treasury.
Therefore the total voting rights in the as the minimum period of notice for all general meetings of the Company other than annual Company are 306,633,421. general meetings.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
The Board will consider on a 17.
The contents of this notice of Meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of case by case basis whether the use of the flexibility offered by the shorter notice period which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Meeting, details of the totals is merited, taking into account the circumstances, including whether the business of the of the voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the Meeting and, if applicable, meeting is time sensitive.
any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website: http: investors.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can 20.
Copies of the directors service contracts with the Company, and the terms and require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter conditions of the nonexecutive directors, are available for inspection at the registered relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and office of the Company during usual business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public the conduct of the audit that is to be laid before the Meeting: or b any circumstances holidays excepted and will be available at the place of the Meeting from 8.00 am until connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual its conclusion.
General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
You may not use any electronic address in this notice of meeting to communicate with cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditors no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
The Company must cause to be answered at the Meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting that is put by a member attending the Meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
