Summary of signi cant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2011 General information C Revenue recognition Micro Focus International plc the Company is a public limited The Group recognises revenues from sales of software licences to company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its end-users or resellers upon persuasive evidence of an arrangement, registered of ce is, The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, RG14 delivery of the software and determination that collection of a xed or 1QN, UK.
Micro Focus International plc and its subsidiaries together determinable fee is reasonably assured.
When the fees for software the Group provide innovative software to clients around the world upgrades and enhancements, maintenance, consulting and training enabling them to dramatically improve the business value of their are bundled with the licence fee, they are unbundled using the enterprise applications.
The Group has a presence in 29 countries Groups objective evidence of the fair value of the elements world-wide and now employs in excess of 1,200 people.
represented by the Groups customary pricing for each element in separate transactions.
If evidence of fair value exists for all undelivered The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
elements and there is no such evidence of fair value established for delivered elements, revenue is first allocated to the elements where The Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue fair value has been established and the residual amount is allocated to by the board of directors on 22 June 2011. the delivered elements.
If evidence of fair value for any undelivered element of the arrangement does not exist, all revenue from the 1 Group accounting policies arrangement is deferred until such time that evidence of fair value A Basis of preparation exists or undelivered elements of the arrangement are delivered.
The consolidated financial statements of Micro Focus International plc have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International If the arrangement includes acceptance criteria, revenue is not Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and the recognised until the Group can objectively demonstrate that the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
acceptance criteria has been met, or the acceptance period lapses, The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the whichever is earlier.
The Group recognises licence revenue derived historical cost conventions, as modi ed by share options measured at from sales to resellers upon delivery to resellers, provided that all other fair value through the income statement.
revenue recognition criteria are met, otherwise revenue is deferred and recognised upon delivery of the product to the end-user.
Maintenance The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS revenue is derived from providing technical support and software requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires updates to customers.
Maintenance revenue is recognised on a management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the straight-line basis over the term of the contract, which in most cases is Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of one year.
Revenue from consulting and training services is recognised judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates on a percentage of completion basis as the services are performed.
are signi cant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed The stage of completion is measured on the basis of services below in 2, Critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
performed to date as a percentage of the total services to be performed.
Amounts collected prior to satisfying the above revenue Balances as at 30 April 2010 have been restated to re ect adjustments recognition criteria are included in deferred income.
made in respect of goodwill on prior year acquisitions totalling $5.8 million, following revisions to payables, property, plant and equipment D Segment reporting and the valuation of realisable tax losses.
In accordance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, the Group has derived the information for its operating segments using the B Consolidation information used by its Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Group The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial has identi ed the Executive Committee as the Chief Operating statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company, its Decision Maker as it is responsible for the allocation of resources to subsidiaries, prepared at the balance sheet date.
Control exists where operating segments and assessing their performance.
Operating the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating segments are consistent with those used in internal management policies of the entity so as to obtain bene ts from its activities.
The reporting and the pro t measure used by the Executive Committee is results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control the Adjusted operating pro t and Adjusted EBITDA for the Group passes to the Group.
The results of disposed subsidiaries are taken as a whole, as set out in note 4.
Resources are managed on a consolidated up to the date on which control passes from the Group.
global basis and accordingly the Executive Committee does not measure costs or operating pro t by segment.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of acquisition is E Exceptional items measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments Exceptional items are those signi cant items which are separately issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, with disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence to enable a full costs directly attributable to the acquisition being expensed.
understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Identi able assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair Examples of transactions which may be considered of an exceptional values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any nature include major restructuring programmes and the costs of non-controlling interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the integrating acquired businesses.
fair value of the Groups share of the identi able net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
F Employee bene t costs a Pension obligations Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on Group companies operate various pension schemes.
All of the major transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
schemes are fide ned contribution plans for which the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance Micro Focus International plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of no further payment obligations once the contributions have been the net investment in foreign entities are taken to other paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee bene t comprehensive income.
expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a payments is available.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate, with exception for goodwill arising b Share based compensation before 1 May 2004 which is treated as an asset of the Company and The Group operated various equity-settled, share based compensation expressed in the Companys functional currency.
d Exchange rates For shares or share options granted after 7 November 2002 and The most important foreign currencies for the Group are pounds vested after 1 January 2005 the fair value of the employee services sterling and the Euro.
The exchange rates used are as follows: received in exchange for the grant of the shares or options is 2011 2010 recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the Average Closing Average Closing vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares or options granted.
Non-market vesting conditions are included 1 $ 1.56 1.67 1.60 1.52 in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to 1 $ 1.33 1.48 1.41 1.32 become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become H Intangible assets exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original a Goodwill estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
fair value of the net identi able assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included The shares are recognised when the options are exercised and the in intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and proceeds received allocated between ordinary shares and share carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses premium account.
on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each of those expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on cash-generating units represents the Groups investment in each area managements best estimate for the effects of non transferability, of operation by each primary reporting segment.
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
As permitted under IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the G Foreign currency translation UK GAAP net book value at 1 May 2004 as the IFRS cost of goodwill a Functional and presentation currency at transition date.
The presentation currency of the Group is US dollars.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured b Computer software in the functional currency of each entity.
Computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the speci c software.
These b Transactions and balances costs are amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional useful lives of three to five years.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the c Research and development settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in incurred on development projects relating to the developing of new foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
computer software programmes and signi cant enhancement of existing computer software programmes are recognised as intangible c Group companies assets when it is probable that the project will be a success, The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a considering its commercial and technological feasibility, and costs can functional currency different from the presentation currency are be measured reliably.
Only direct costs are capitalised which are the translated into the presentation currency as follows: software development employee costs.
Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated subsequent period.
Development costs are amortised from the at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected bene t, typically ii income and expenses for each income statement item are being three years.
translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
Micro Focus International plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Summary of signi cant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2011 continued d Intangible assets arising on business combinations When work has been performed and the revenue is not yet Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at recognised, the direct costs of third party contractors and staff will be cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is charged to the treated as work in progress where the probability of invoicing and income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life evidence of collectability can be demonstrated.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives will vary for each L Trade receivables category of asset acquired and to date are as follows: Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provisions for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is Purchased software Three to five years objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all Development costs Three years amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The Trade names Three years amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying Technology Seven to ten years amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision Customer relationships Two to ten years is recognised in the income statement.
Non-compete agreements Three to five years M Cash and cash equivalents I Property, plant and equipment Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or balance sheet.
recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic bene ts associated with the item will ow to the N Borrowings Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction repairs and maintenance expenditures are charged to the income costs incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to write off cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life over the period of borrowing on an effective interest basis.
as follows: O Leases Leases where the lessor retains a signi cant portion of the risks and Leasehold improvements Over the lease term rewards of ownership are classi ed as operating leases.
Payments Fixtures and ttings Five to seven years made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the Computer equipment One to five years lessor, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted P Taxation if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly to carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with directly in equity.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on income statement.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial J Impairment of nonfinancial assets statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial Assets that have an inde nite useful life are not subject to recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are business combination that at the time of the transaction affects subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events neither accounting nor taxable pro t or loss, it is not accounted for.
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately taxable pro t will be available against which the temporary differences identi able cash ows cash-generating units.
K Inventories Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of cost of nished goods comprises software for resale and packaging the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable materials.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Micro Focus International plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information Current tax is recognised based on the amounts expected to be paid b The following standards, amendments to standards or or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or interpretations were effective during the year ended 30 April 2011 substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
but had no material impact on the Group: Q Ordinary shares, share premium and dividend distribution IFRIC 17, Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective for Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or the Group from 1 July 2009.
This interpretation clari es the options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from accounting treatment where assets other than cash are distributed the proceeds.
to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held for Sale, has also been amended Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised to require that assets are classi ed as held for distribution only as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which when they are available for distribution in their present condition the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
and the distribution is highly probable.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
IFRS 5 Amendment, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The amendment clari es that IFRS 5 R Financial instruments and hedge accounting speci es the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance or disposal groups classi ed as held for sale or discontinued sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provision of operations.
It also clari es that the general requirement in IAS 1 the instrument.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are still applies.
stated at their nominal value less the amount of any appropriate provision for irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables are non-interest IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers, effective for the bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
This interpretation clari es the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or an item of property, plant and equipment from a customer that issue derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting or the entity must use to connect the customer to a network or to trading purposes.
provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services.
S Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and IAS 39, The accounting policies adopted in these consolidated financial Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, effective statements are consistent with those of the annual financial for the Group from 1 July 2009.
The amendment to IFRIC 9 statements for the year ended 30 April 2010, with the exception of requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative the following standards, amendments to or interpretations of should be separated from a host contract when the entity published standards adopted during the year: reclassi es a hybrid financial asset out of the fair value through pro t or loss category.
If the entity is unable to make this a The following standards, amendments to standards or assessment, the hybrid instrument must remain classi ed as at fair interpretations became effective during the year to 30 April 2011 value through pro t or loss in its entirety.
and have been adopted by the Group: IFRIC 6, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations, effective for the Group effective for the Group from 1 July 2009.
This amendment states from 1 May 2010.
The revised standard requires that all that, in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, acquisition-related costs are to be expensed to the income qualifying hedging instruments may be held by any entity or statement in the period incurred rather than added to the cost of entities within the Group, including the foreign operation itself, as the investment, that changes to contingent consideration long as the designation, documentation and effectiveness following a business combination are shown in the statement of requirements of IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and comprehensive income rather than changing goodwill, and that Measurement, that relate to a net investment hedge are satis ed.
changes to deferred tax assets relating to business combinations are only re ected within goodwill if they occur within the IAS 38 Amendment, Intangible Assets, effective for the Group measurement period.
Furthermore, purchase accounting only from 1 January 2010.
The amendment clari es the guidance in applies at the point when control is achieved.
The financial effect measuring the fair value of an intangible asset acquired in a of adopting this standard can only be ascertained when any future business combination and permits the grouping of intangible transactions are entered into.
assets as a single asset if each asset has similar useful economic lives.
The financial effect of adopting this standard can only be IAS 27 Revised.
Consolidated and Separate Financial ascertained when any future transactions are entered into.
Statements The Group has adopted IFRS 3 Revised, and so it is required to adopt IAS 27 Revised at the same time.
The revised IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements.
The standard requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling amendment clari es that the potential settlement of a liability by interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control the issue of equity is not relevant to its classi cation as current or and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains or non-current.
The standard also speci es the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in pro t or loss.
IAS 27 Revised has had no impact in the current period.
Micro Focus International plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Summary of signi cant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2011 continued IAS 36 Amendment, Impairment of Assets, effective for the 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Group from 1 January 2010.
The amendment clari es that the In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group has largest cash-generating unit or group of units to which goodwill made its best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an the financial statements, giving due consideration to materiality.
The operating segment, as fide ned by IFRS 8, Operating Segments.
Group regularly reviews these estimates and updates them as required.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Unless otherwise IFRS 2 Amendment, Share-based payment, effective for the indicated, the Group does not believe that it is likely that materially Group from 1 January 2010.
The amendment to the standard different amounts would be reported related to the accounting limits vesting conditions to service conditions and performance estimates and assumptions described below.
The Group considers the conditions.
The amendment also speci es that all cancellations, following to be a description of the most signi cant estimates, which whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same require the Group to make subjective and complex judgments, and accounting treatment, ie acceleration of the expense based on the matters that are inherently uncertain.
a Impairment of goodwill IAS 32 Amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation on The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any Classi cation of Rights Issues, effective on or after 1 February 2010. impairment in accordance with the accounting policy 1J.
The The amendment clari es the accounting for rights issues that are recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use issuer.
Provided that certain conditions are met, the rights issues are of estimates.
Details of the Groups impairment review and sensitivities now classi ed as equity regardless of the currency in which the to changes in assumptions are disclosed in note 9. exercise price is denominated.
b Income taxes IAS 28, Investments in Associates, effective on or after 1 July The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
2009, amended to re ect changes in IFRS 3.
Signi cant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures, effective on or after 1 July calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain 2009, amended to re ect changes to IFRS 3. during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether c The following standards, amendments to standards or additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these interpretations are not yet effective and have not been adopted matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such early by the Group: differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
IFRIC 14 Amendment, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement, effective on or after 1 January 2011.
The The Group carries appropriate provision, based on best estimates, until amendments correct an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14. tax computations are agreed with the taxation authorities.
Without the amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum c Acquisitions funding contributions.
When making acquisitions, the Group has to make judgments and best estimates about the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
d The following standards, amendments to standards or Appropriate advice is sought from professional advisors before making interpretations are not yet effective, have not yet been endorsed by such allocations.
The valuation of goodwill and other intangibles is the EU and have not been adopted early by the Group: tested annually or whenever there are changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
These Amendments issued as part of annual improvements to tests require the use of estimates.
Note 9 gives details of the Groups IFRSs 2010. impairment reviews.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, effective on or after 1 January 2013. d Development expenditure The Group invests in the development of future products in IAS 24 Revised, Related Party Disclosure, effective on or after accordance with the accounting policy 1H c. The assessment as to 1 January 2011. whether this expenditure will achieve a complete product for which the technical feasibility is assured is a matter of judgment, as is the IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity forecasting of how the product will generate future economic bene t. Instruments, effective on or after 1 July 2010.
Finally, the period of time over which the economic bene t associated with the expenditure occurred will arise is also a matter of judgment.
The directors anticipate that the future introduction of those These judgments are made by evaluating the development plan standards, amendments and interpretations listed above will not have prepared by the research and development department and approved a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
by management, regularly monitoring progress by using an established set of criteria for assessing technical feasibility and benchmarking to other products.
Micro Focus International plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information 3 Financial risk factors d Liquidity risk The Groups multi-national operations expose it to a variety of financial Central treasury carries out cash ow forecasting for the Group to risks that include the effects of changes in credit risk, foreign currency ensure that it has suf cient cash to meet operational requirements and risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk.
Risk management is carried out to allow the repayment of the bank facility drawn down to finance the by a central treasury department under policies approved by the board acquisitions made in the prior year.
Group treasury identi es and evaluates financial risks alongside the Groups operating units.
The board provides written Surplus cash in the operating units over and above what is required for principles for risk management together with speci c policies covering working capital needs are transferred to Group treasury.
These funds areas such as foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and are used to repay bank borrowings or invested in interest bearing liquidity risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative current accounts, time deposits or money market deposits of the financial instruments as appropriate, and investment of excess funds.
appropriate maturity period determined by consolidated cash forecasts.
In accordance with the treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments.
a Credit risk Financial instruments which potentially expose the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable.
Cash equivalents are deposited with high-credit quality financial institutions.
The Group provides credit to customers in the normal course of business.
Collateral is not required for those receivables, but ongoing credit evaluations of customers financial conditions are performed.
The Group maintains a provision for impairment based upon the expected collectability of accounts receivable.
The Group sells products and services to a wide range of customers around the world and therefore believes there is no material concentration of credit risk.
b Foreign currency risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the UK sterling and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
There were no hedging transactions in place at 30 April 2011.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
c Interest rate risk The Groups income and operating cash ows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from short-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
The Group does not use interest rate swaps to manage its cash ow interest rate risk at the present time due to low market rates.
Micro Focus International plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
