Company information Directors, Secretary, registered of ce and advisers Directors Company Secretary, Auditors Kevin Loosemore Registered and Head Of ce  LLP Executive Chairman Jane Smithard 9 Greyfriars Road The Lawn Reading Mike Phillips 22-30 Old Bath Road Berkshire RG1 1JG Chief Financial Of cer Newbury United Kingdom David Maloney Berkshire RG14 1QN Non-executive Senior Independent Director United Kingdom Registrars and Deputy Chairman www.
com Equiniti Limited Registered in England number 5134647 Aspect House Paul Pester Spencer Road Non-executive director Legal advisers Lancing Tom Skelton Lawrence Graham LLP West Sussex BN99 6DA Non-executive director 4 More London Riverside United Kingdom London www.
co. uk Karen Slatford SE1 2AU Non-executive director United Kingdom Brokers UBS Limited 2 Finsbury Square London EC2 2PP United Kingdom Numis Securities Limited The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT United Kingdom Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this annual report, including those under the factors include, among others: the level of expenditure committed to development captions entitled Executive Chairmans statement, operational and financial review, and deployment applications by organisations: the level of deployment-related directors report, corporate governance and remuneration report constitute forwardrevenue expected by the Company: the degree to which organisations adopt weblooking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding the Companys enabled services: the rate at which large organisations migrate applications from financial condition, business strategy, plans and objectives.
These forward-looking the mainframe environment: the continued use and necessity of the mainframe for statements can be identi ed by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the business critical applications: the degree of competition faced by Micro Focus: growth terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should in the information technology services market: general economic and business or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Such conditions, particularly in the United States: changes in technology and competition: forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and and the Companys ability to attract and retain quali ed personnel.
These forwardother factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements looking statements are made by the directors in good faith based on the information of the Company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future available to them at the time of their approval of this annual report.
Except as results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking required by the Financial Services Authority, or by law, the Company does not statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, regarding the Companys present and future business strategies and the environment whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
in which the Company will operate in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other Micro Focus International plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 This Report is printed on materials which are FSC certi ed from well-managed forests.
These materials contain ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp and are 100% Recyclable.
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
com Micro Focus International plc The Lawn 22-30 Old Bath Road Newbury Berkshire RG14 1QN United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1635 32646 Fax: 44 0 1635 33966 www.
