Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 21 February 2012.
The Company is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The registered office is located at Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey, RH6 7AF, United Kingdom.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that investment properties and, from 1 January 2005, derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading and financial instruments classified as available-for-sale, are stated at their fair value.
Hotel properties are stated at cost or deemed cost.
Deemed cost is calculated based on the hotel's frozen valuation as at 1 January 2004.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Group's income statement and segmental analysis separately identifies headline operating profit, other operating income and expense, non-operating income and other separately disclosed items of the Group together with separately disclosed items of joint ventures and associates.
This is in accordance with IAS 1 'Presentation of Financial Statements' and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
Headline operating profit may not be comparable to similarly fitted measures used by other companies.
The Directors intend to follow such presentation on a consistent basis.
The financial statements are presented in the Company's functional currency of sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2011. i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
ii Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities equity accounted investees The Groups investment in its associates and joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Under the equity method, the investment in associates and joint ventures is carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate and joint venture.
Goodwill relating to the associate and joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate and joint venture.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate and joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture.
The share of profit of associates and joint ventures is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to equity holders of the associates and joint ventures and therefore is profit after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associates and joint ventures.
74 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.1 Basis of preparation continued The financial statements of the associates and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups investment in its associates and joint ventures.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associates and joint ventures is impaired.
If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associates and joint ventures and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
Upon loss of significant influence over associates and joint ventures, the Group measures and recognises any remaining investment at its fair value.
Any differences between the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the remaining investment and proceeds from disposal are recognised in the income statement.
Upon loss of joint control and provided the former jointly-controlled entity does not become a subsidiary or associate, the Group measures and recognises its remaining investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the former jointly-controlled entity upon loss of joint control and the fair value of the remaining investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in the income statement.
When the remaining investment constitutes significant influence, it is accounted for as investment in an associate.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2011: Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IAS 24 revised 2010 Related Party Disclosures Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement The adoption of these accounting standards and interpretations has not had a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
75 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies A Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at the date through the income statement.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement either in the income statement or as change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it shall not be remeasured and its subsequent settlement shall be accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the consideration transferred over the Groups net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and is allocated to each of the Groups hotels that are expected to benefit from the combination.
If the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition are charged to the income statement.
B Foreign currency i Foreign currency translation The financial statements of each of the Groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
Transactions in foreign currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
76 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued C Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
D Hedges i Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two policy statements, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities When a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, hedge accounting is not applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operation The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity within translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
77 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued E Property, plant and equipment and depreciation i Recognition and measurement Land and buildings other than investment properties are stated at cost, except as allowed under IFRS 1 transition rules, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Any impairment of such properties below depreciated historical cost is charged to the income statement.
Under the transition provisions of IFRS 1, land and buildings which were previously revalued under UK GAAP are measured on the basis of their deemed cost, being their UK GAAP carrying value, including revaluations, as at 1 January 2004. ii Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Building core 50 years or lease term if shorter Building surface, finishes and services 30 years or lease term if shorter Plant and machinery 15 20 years Furniture and equipment 10 years Soft furnishings 5 7 years Computer equipment 5 years Software up to 8 years Motor vehicles 4 years No residual values are ascribed to building surface finishes and services.
Residual values ascribed to building core depend on the nature, location and tenure of each property.
iii Subsequent costs Capital expenditure on major projects is recorded separately within property, plant and equipment as capital work in progress.
Once the project is complete the balance is transferred to the appropriate fixed asset categories.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
Interest attributable to funds used to finance the construction or acquisition of new hotels or major extensions to existing hotels is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of the hotel core.
Operating supplies, which include china, linen, glass and silverware, are stated at their deemed costs as at 1 January 2008 and subsumed into the costs of the hotel buildings.
Subsequent renewals and replacements of such stocks and new supplies upon initial hotel opening are written off as incurred to the income statement.
F Leases i Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The leased asset is initially recorded at the lower of fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments.
The equivalent liability, categorised as appropriate, is included within current or non-current liabilities.
Assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce constant rates of return on the outstanding balance.
Rentals payable by the Group under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on the same basis.
In cases where rents comprise a fixed and a variable element, the fixed element only is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis with the variable amounts being charged as they become due.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Rentals receivable by the Group as lessor under operating leases, including the sub-letting of retail outlets within hotel properties, are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if the receipts are not made on such a basis.
Costs, including depreciation incurred in earning the lease income, are recognised as an expense.
78 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued ii Lease premium On occasion the Group makes and receives initial payments on entering both into long and short leases of land and buildings.
Where payment for leased land is equivalent to the purchase of the freehold interest, the lease is classified as a finance lease.
All other payments for leases of land are classified as operating.
On the statement of financial position, financial lease payment attributable to the land is recorded as property, plant and equipment and for operating leases, the land is recorded as a lease premium prepayment.
Both lease types are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest attributable to funds to finance the purchase of lease of land is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of lease.
In the case of lease premiums received, these are reflected on the statement of financial position as deferred income, appropriately classified between current and non-current liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
G Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment properties, inventories, employee benefit assets and deferred tax assets are reviewed to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Where permissible under IFRS, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment had been recognised.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value of the asset below its cost is considered in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
H Investment properties Investment properties held by the Group are properties which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Any increase or decrease in the fair value on annual revaluation is recognised in the income statement in accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property.
An external independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued, values the portfolio annually.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The Groups associate undertaking, CDLHT, holds hotel assets which are leased to both the Group and external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreements involved.
For the purposes of the preparation of the Groups financial statements, to the extent that these assets held by CDLHT qualify to be accounted for as investment properties in accordance with IAS 40, the Group equity accounts for its share of CDLHTs fair value change within its overall share of profits from associates.
Such share of fair value change is recorded as a share of other operating income expenses of associates in the Groups income statement.
Where in the Groups view, the indicators of the lease arrangement are of an owner-occupied 79 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued property, the property is accounted for in the Groups financial statements as part of CDLHTs property, plant and equipment with the Groups share of CDLHTs results for the period incorporating an appropriate depreciation charge.
I Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
J Development properties Development properties are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are held-for-sale in the short term and are therefore classified as current assets.
The cost of development properties includes interest and other related expenditure incurred in order to get the asset ready for its intended use.
K Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
L Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
M Income tax Income tax on profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: i the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and ii differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only to the extent that: i the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities: ii the Group intends to settle net: and iii the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
80 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued N Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
ii Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
iii Long-term service benefits The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than post-employment plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
iv Share-based payment transactions The share-based incentive schemes allow the Groups employees to acquire shares of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for awards granted after 7 November 2002 is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model, further details of which are given in note 23.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details are given in note 11.
81 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued O Provisions A provision is recognised on the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Further details on provisions are given in note 24.
P Revenue and its recognition Revenue comprises: Income from the ownership and operation of hotels recognised at the point at which the accommodation and related services are provided: Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a percentage of hotel revenue, and or an incentive fee, which is generally based on the hotels profitability: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the contract: Franchise fees received in connection with licensing of the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the agreement: REIT managers management fees earned from CDLHT and recognised on an accrual basis based on the applicable formula as described in note 34: Income from property rental recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term, lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income: and Development property sales recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed, which is usually when legal title transfers depending on jurisdictions.
Q Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
R Operating segment information Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
The segments reported reflect the operating information included in internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, the Board, regularly reviews.
Further details are given in note 5.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Discrete financial information is reported to and is reviewed by the CODM on a geographical basis.
A Chief Operating Officer COO or equivalent is responsible for one or more geographical segments and is accountable for the functioning of the segment and maintains regular contact with the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
The CODM makes decisions about allocation of resources to the regions managed by the COO.
Segment results that are reported to the CODM include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items principally comprise interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net finance expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill.
82 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued S Non-current assets held-for-sale Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held-for-sale.
Generally the assets or disposal group are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
T Other financial assets and liabilities Trade investments are classified as available-for-sale assets and are included under non-current assets within other financial assets.
They are recorded at market value with movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less impairment.
Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material.
U Related parties For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
3 Accounting estimates and judgements Management has discussed with the Audit Committee the selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the year.
The Group evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
Such estimates and judgements are based upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Certain critical accounting policies, among others, affect the Groups more significant estimates and assumptions used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Actual results could differ from the Groups estimates and assumptions.
Key estimates and judgements have been made in the following areas: Asset carrying values Management performs an assessment at each balance sheet date of assets across the Group where risk of impairment has been identified.
Key judgement areas include the carrying values of property, plant and equipment and investment properties, investments in and loans to associates and joint ventures and development properties.
The recovery of these assets is dependent on future cash flows receivable and the provision of future services or goods by third parties.
Where risk of impairment has been identified an impairment review has been performed on property, plant and equipment, lease premium prepayments and investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates held across the Group on a cash generating basis.
Where appropriate, external evaluations are also undertaken.
The impairment review is performed on a value in use basis which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and appropriate growth rates.
The discount rates used reflect appropriate sensitivities involved in the assessment.
Discount rates used for impaired properties are disclosed in note 12.
83 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Accounting estimates and judgements continued Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 20 to 38.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Business Review on pages 25 to 33 and in the key performance indicators on pages 18 and 19.
In addition, note 22 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and plans for refinancing maturing facilities are underway.
Cash flow forecasts for the Group have been prepared for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current market conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that could be taken in the event that market conditions are worse than their current assessment.
Such measures include further reduction in costs and in capital expenditure.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
In assessing whether the Group is a going concern, the Directors follow a review process which is consistent with the principles set out in the guidance published by the Financial Reporting Council: Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009.
Defined benefit pension plans The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
As set out in note 23, the calculation of the present value of the Groups defined benefit obligations at each period end is subject to significant estimation.
An appropriately qualified, independent actuary is used to undertake this calculation.
The assumptions made by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The valuation of scheme assets is based on their fair value at the balance sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short term, their values may be subject to significant change before they are realised.
In reviewing the work of the independent actuary, management was required to exercise judgement to satisfy themselves that appropriate weight had been afforded to macro economics factors.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 23.
Taxation The Group has, from time to time, contingent tax liabilities arising from trading and corporate transactions.
After taking appropriate external professional advice, the Group makes provision for these liabilities based on the probable level of economic loss that may be incurred and which is reliably measureable.
Investment in CDLHT In 2006, the Group acquired a 39.1% interest in CDLHT, a stapled security listed on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited, comprising a hotel real estate investment trust REIT and a business trust.
The business trust is dormant.
The Groups interest in CDLHT at 31 December 2011 was 35.2%.
CDLHT is not considered to be a special purpose entity under Standing Interpretations Committee 12: Consolidation Special Purpose Entities and the Group does not have, by virtue of its unit holdings, the power to control a majority of the voting rights of the units of CDLHT.
However, as further noted in note 34, the Group acts as REIT Manager through a wholly-owned company under the terms of the trust deed constituting the REIT.
The Directors have therefore given careful consideration to the Groups interest in and relationship with CDLHT for the purposes of assessing whether it should be consolidated in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidation and Separate Financial Statements.
A subsidiary of the Group, M&C REIT Management Limited, in its capacity as REIT Manager, has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the REIT.
However, there are certain substantive kick-out rights that prevent the Group from exercising the power to control the majority of the Board of the REIT Manager so as to be able to govern the financial and operating policies of the REIT.
84 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Accounting estimates and judgements continued Management have judged that the Group does not therefore control CDLHT and it is not a subsidiary of the Group.
Because of the significant influence that the Group has by way of its holding of 35.2% of CDLHT units and representation on the Board of the REIT Manager, the Group equity accounts for its interest in CDLHT as an associate.
Lease backs from CDLHT In July 2006 the Group completed the sale of long leasehold interest in three of its Singapore hotels to CDLHT, an associate and comprising a REIT and a business trust.
These hotels were the Orchard Hotel including the connected shopping centre and M Hotel which were both sold on 75-year leases and Copthorne King's Hotel for the remaining 61 years of a 99-year lease.
CDLHT also acquired the Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel, a Group managed hotel from CDL under a 75-year lease together with a conference centre.
All four hotels excluding the shopping centre were leased back to the Group for an initial term of 20 years, each renewable at the Group's option for an additional term of 20 years.
The conference centre lease was for five years from July 2006 and was renewed for a further five years during 2011.
In May 2011, the Group completed the sale of the remaining term of a 99-year long leasehold interest commencing February 2007 in the Studio M Hotel Singapore to CDLHT.
The hotel was leased back for an initial term of 20 years, renewable at the Group's option for three consecutive terms totaling 50 years.
Under the terms of the master lease agreements for the four hotels acquired in 2006, and in May 2011 for the Studio M Hotel, the Group is obliged to pay CDLHT an annual rental for the duration of the term initial and extended term of each lease agreement comprising the following: A fixed rent and service charge for each hotel: and A variable rent computed based on the sum of 20% 30% for Studio M of each hotel's revenue and 20% of each hotel's gross operating profit for the prevailing financial year, less the sum of the fixed rent and the service charge.
Should the calculation of the variable rent yield a negative figure, the variable rent is deemed to be zero.
Although the Group has the option to lease each building asset for a further period of 20-50 years, there remains a substantial proportion of the assets economic life for which the Group will not benefit from the asset.
In addition, the present value of the minimum lease payments over the potential term of the leases do not constitute substantially all of the fair value of the leased assets, and the variable rent structure is such that the Group does not retain significant risks and rewards of ownership of the assets.
Accordingly, the Group has classified the lease-back arrangements as operating leases in accordance with IAS 17 Leases.
Any prepaid operating land lease income arising from the sale of the hotel is recognised on the statement of financial position as deferred income, and is amortised over the 75-year term of the lease.
At 31 December 2011, an amount of 115.2m is recognised on the statement of financial position as deferred income, 113.5m in non-current liabilities and 1.7m in trade and other payables and an amount of 1.7m has been credited to the 2011 consolidated income statement.
In relation to profit recorded on disposals, and in accordance with the Group's accounting policy, unrealised gains resulting from transactions between the Group and associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture.
In the case of the sale and leaseback of the Studio M Hotel on 3 May 2011 to CDLHT for a cash consideration of S$154.0m 75.7m, it gave rise to a total realised pre-tax profit from the disposal of S$35.4 17.4m.
Total unrealised pre-tax profit from the disposal of S$19.1m 9.4m has been credited to the statement of financial position as investment in joint ventures and associates, arising from the Group's then 35.1% interest in the stapled securities of CDLHT.
Investment properties The Group holds a number of investment properties and accounts for such properties in accordance with the accounting policy set out on page 79.
CDLHT owns hotel assets which are leased to both the Group and external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreement involved.
The Group accounts for such hotel assets in its financial statements in accordance with the accounting policy set out on pages 79 and 80.
Judgement is required in assessing whether the relevant hotel assets held by CDLHT are owner-occupied or not, for the purposes of assessing whether IAS 40 Investment Property is applicable and whether therefore, accounting for the relevant hotels as investment properties is appropriate for the purposes of the Groups financial statements.
The question of whether or 85 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Accounting estimates and judgements continued not a property is owner-occupied is a matter of judgement, involving consideration of various factors such as, the length of the agreement involved, the powers of intervention and level of influence on financial and operating decisions held by the Group or CDLHT, and the extent of the Group or CDLHTs interest in the profits and cash flows generated by the relevant properties.
Where the indicators are such that on balance, CDLHT is, in the Groups opinion, shown to be a passive investor, the relevant hotel property is accounted for in accordance with IAS 40 and the Group accounts for its share of the fair value change through the income statement as a share of other operating income expense of the associate.
Where indicators are of an owner-occupied property, the hotel is classified as part of CDLHTs property, plant and equipment with the Groups share of CDLHTs results for the period incorporating an appropriate depreciation charge.
Land leases classification The Group holds a number of hotels with leases of land that are determined to have an indefinite economic life are classified as a finance lease, even if at the end of the lease term title does not pass to the lessee.
In determining the lease of land status as to finance or operating lease the following factors were considered: transfer of ownership purchase options present value of minimum lease payments in comparison to fair value of land 4 New standards and interpretations not yet adopted An EU-endorsed amendment to the standard Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures has been issued, but is not yet effective.
The adoption of this amendment is not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
5 Operating segment information Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items principally comprise: interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net finance expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
Geographical segments The hotel and operations are managed on a worldwide basis and operate in seven principal geographical areas as follows: New York Regional US London Rest of Europe including the Middle East Singapore Rest of Asia Australasia The segments reported reflect the operating segment information included in the internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, which is the Board, regularly reviews.
The reportable segments are aligned with the structure of the Groups internal organisation which is based according to geographical region.
Each operating segment has a Chief Operating Officer COO or equivalent who is directly accountable for the functioning of the segment and who maintains regular contact with the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
86 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 Operating segment information continued Segment results 2011 Rest of Rest of Central Total New York Regional US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia costs Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue Hotel 103.2 114.9 100.9 86.9 151.1 159.8 48.4 765.2 Property operations 1.4 2.4 44.3 7.2 55.3 Total revenue 103.2 116.3 100.9 86.9 153.5 204.1 55.6 820.5 Hotel gross operating profit 30.1 21.8 56.2 22.0 83.4 60.6 22.0 296.1 1 Hotel fixed charges 18.1 18.2 14.0 9.4 47.7 21.6 10.5 139.5 Hotel operating profit 12.0 3.6 42.2 12.6 35.7 39.0 11.5 156.6 Property operations operating profit loss 0.8 0.2 34.0 2.6 35.6 Central costs 21.2 21.2 Share of joint ventures and associates operating profit 16.1 8.5 4.2 28.8 Headline operating profit loss 12.0 2.8 42.2 12.6 51.6 81.5 18.3 21.2 199.8 Add back depreciation and amortisation 4.7 7.5 5.1 3.8 1.3 9.8 2.4 0.9 35.5 2 Headline EBITDA 16.7 10.3 47.3 16.4 52.9 91.3 20.7 20.3 235.3 Depreciation and amortisation 35.5 Share of interest, tax and non controlling interests of joint ventures and associates 8.4 Net finance expense 6.7 Headline profit before tax 184.7 Separately disclosed items 3 Group 8.5 Separately disclosed items Share of joint ventures and associates 19.5 Separately disclosed items Share of joint ventures and associates interest, tax and non-controlling interests 2.4 Profit before tax 193.3 1 Hotel fixed charges include depreciation, amortisation of lease premium prepayments, property rent, taxes and insurance, operating lease rentals and management fees.
2 EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
3 Included within separately disclosed items Group is a 29.9m impairment charge.
An impairment charge of 15.8m was made in relation to eight Regional UK hotels in Rest of Europe, 8.2m in relation to four hotels in Regional US, 1.0m in relation to one hotel in New Zealand and 4.4m in relation to land in India.
A 0.5m impairment charge was made within Rest of Asia on interest relating to a shareholder loan to the Groups 50% investment in Bangkok.
87 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 Operating segment information continued 2010 Regional Rest of Rest of Central Total New York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia costs Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue Hotel 102.3 116.0 93.5 94.6 140.9 137.6 49.1 734.0 Property operations 1.5 2.4 0.1 5.7 9.7 Total revenue 102.3 117.5 93.5 94.6 143.3 137.7 54.8 743.7 Hotel gross operating profit 28.4 20.0 50.1 25.3 76.1 53.8 18.6 272.3 1 Hotel fixed charges 18.1 19.2 13.0 21.1 41.5 16.6 8.2 137.7 Hotel operating loss profit 10.3 0.8 37.1 4.2 34.6 37.2 10.4 134.6 Property operations operating profit loss 0.7 2.7 1.9 1.5 Central costs 18.1 18.1 Share of joint ventures and associates operating profit 13.1 12.0 4.0 29.1 Headline operating profit loss 10.3 0.1 37.1 4.2 45.0 49.2 16.3 18.1 144.1 Add back depreciation and amortisation 5.0 8.8 4.8 3.8 2.1 5.3 2.0 0.9 32.7 2 Headline EBITDA 15.3 8.9 41.9 8.0 47.1 54.5 18.3 17.2 176.8 Depreciation and amortisation 32.7 Share of interest, tax and noncontrolling interests of joint ventures and associates 9.7 Net finance expense 5.9 Headline profit before tax 128.5 Separately disclosed items 3 Group 5.3 Separately disclosed items Share of joint ventures and associates 6.9 Separately disclosed items Share of joint ventures and associates interest, tax and non-controlling interests 1.5 Profit before tax 128.6 1 Hotel fixed charges include depreciation, amortisation of lease premium prepayments, property rent, taxes and insurance, operating lease rentals and management fees.
3 Included within separately disclosed items Group is a 15.2m impairment charge.
An impairment charge of 8.8m was made in relation to six Regional UK hotels in Rest of Europe and 5.8m was made in relation to six hotels in Regional US.
Also a 0.6m impairment charge was made within Rest of Asia on an additional shareholder loan and interest in the Groups 50% investment in Bangkok.
88 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 Operating segment information continued Segmental assets, liabilities and capital expenditure 2011 Regional Rest of Singapore Rest of Total New York US London Europe m Asia Australasia Group m m m m m m m m Hotel operating assets 342.5 278.1 438.3 188.1 144.5 625.0 150.1 2,166.6 Hotel operating liabilities 11.7 41.5 25.8 21.2 140.1 47.6 7.7 295.6 Investment in and loans due from joint ventures and associates 174.2 95.0 63.2 332.4 Loans due to associate 11.8 11.8 Total hotel operating net assets 330.8 236.6 412.5 166.9 178.6 660.6 205.6 2,191.6 Property operating assets 28.9 146.8 81.1 73.5 330.3 Property operating liabilities 0.1 69.4 0.7 0.7 70.9 Investments in and loans due from associate 69.0 90.4 159.4 Total property operating net assets 28.8 146.4 170.8 72.8 418.8 Deferred tax liabilities 236.4 Income taxes payable 26.2 Net debt 100.2 Net assets 2,247.6 Capital expenditure 2.1 3.3 3.7 2.5 0.3 93.3 2.5 107.7 Includes 81.1m of investment property in Japan 2010 New Regional Rest of Rest of Total York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia Group m m m m m m m m Hotel operating assets 354.2 297.3 439.7 207.7 245.2 634.9 157.1 2,336.1 Hotel operating liabilities 9.9 30.5 22.8 31.1 153.1 61.3 9.1 317.8 Investment in joint ventures and associates 173.2 92.6 62.9 328.7 Total hotel operating net assets 344.3 266.8 416.9 176.6 265.3 666.2 210.9 2,347.0 Property operating assets 29.0 87.6 9.8 74.1 200.5 Property operating liabilities 0.1 42.2 4.4 0.7 47.4 Investment in associate 68.1 68.1 Total property operating net assets 28.9 45.4 73.5 73.4 221.2 Deferred tax liabilities 251.8 Income taxes payable 32.0 Net debt 165.7 Net assets 2,118.7 Capital expenditure 0.4 3.8 0.9 1.7 7.7 4.7 2.2 21.4 Excludes 108.9m of property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment acquired on acquisition of Beijing Fortune Hotel Co Ltd 89 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 Operating segment information continued Geographic information 2011 2010 m m Revenue from external customers United States 219.5 219.8 Singapore 153.4 143.3 United Kingdom 147.4 141.7 New Zealand 55.6 53.5 Taiwan 52.3 51.3 South Korea 49.3 50.3 Malaysia sale of land 44.2 China 21.2 2.0 Germany 20.4 27.5 Malaysia 16.7 16.3 France 15.8 15.9 Philippines 10.5 9.7 Indonesia 6.6 5.4 Other 7.6 7.0 Total revenue per consolidated income statement 820.5 743.7 The revenue information above is based on the location of the business.
The 820.5m 2010: 743.7m revenue is constituted of 765.2m 2010: 734.0m of hotel revenue and by 55.3m 2010: 9.7m of property operations revenue.
The property operations revenue comprises 44.2m 2010: nil from Malaysia, 7.2m 2010: 5.7m from New Zealand, 2.4m 2010: 2.4m from Singapore and other countries 1.5m 2010: 1.6m.
2011 2010 m m Non-current assets United States 632.9 659.7 United Kingdom 567.7 582.6 Singapore 426.5 475.2 Taiwan 237.3 240.4 China 197.3 180.5 New Zealand 156.8 164.0 South Korea 146.3 144.6 Hong Kong 95.0 89.7 Japan 79.8 Malaysia 67.4 70.0 Australia 47.2 45.6 France 41.6 43.5 Philippines 37.8 38.7 Indonesia 12.9 16.1 Other 0.3 5.2 Total non-current assets per consolidated statement of financial position 2,746.8 2,755.8 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, lease premium prepayments, investment properties, investments in joint ventures and associates, loans due from associate and other financial assets.
90 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6 Administrative expenses The following items are included within administrative expenses: 2011 2010 m m a Included in administrative expenses is the auditors remuneration, for audit and non-audit services as follows: Auditors remuneration Statutory audit services: Annual audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.4 Audit of subsidiary companies 1.3 1.2 1.7 1.6 Non-audit related services: Further assurance services relating to accounting advice 0.1 0.2 Other services relating to taxation 0.7 0.4 0.8 0.6 2.5 2.2 In addition to the above, fees in respect of the annual audit of the Millennium & Copthorne UK pension plan were 0.01m 2010: 0.01m.
2011 2010 m m b Impairment note 7 29.9 15.2 c Repairs and maintenance 35.9 34.9 d Depreciation 34.1 31.3 e Lease premium amortisation 1.4 1.4 f Rental paid payable under operating leases land and buildings 52.1 45.8 plant and machinery 5.6 5.6 Rental paid payable under operating leases with regard to land and buildings includes rentals relating to the lease arrangements with CDLHT on five Singapore hotels 2010: four hotels and a conference centre.
Details of these lease arrangements and rents payable thereon are given in note 32.
91 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Separately disclosed items 2011 2010 Notes m m Other operating income Revaluation gain of investment properties a 1.0 9.3 Other operating expense Revaluation deficit of investment properties a 0.1 5.2 Separately disclosed items included in administrative expenses Impairment b 29.9 15.2 Goodwill written-off in respect of Beijing c 8.1 Redundancy costs d 1.7 29.9 25.0 Non-operating income Profit on sale and leaseback of Studio M Hotel e 17.4 Profit on disposal of subsidiary f 1.7 Gain arising on disposal of leasehold property g 1.2 Gain on disposal of stapled securities in CDLHT h 0.2 7.2 Gain arising in respect of step up acquisition of Beijing c 8.4 20.5 15.6 Separately disclosed items Group 8.5 5.3 Separately disclosed items share of joint ventures and associates Revaluation gain of investment properties i 19.7 9.2 Disposal of subsidiaries in FSCL group j 0.2 2.3 19.5 6.9 a Revaluation of investment properties At the end of 2011, the Groups investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open-market existing use basis.
Based on these valuations, together with such considerations as the Directors consider appropriate, the Tanglin Shopping Centre recorded an uplift in value of 1.0m, Biltmore Court & Tower recorded a decrease in value of 0.1m and Sunnyvale residences recorded no change.
In 2010, the Tanglin Shopping Centre recorded an uplift in value of 9.3m whereas Biltmore Court & Tower and Sunnyvale residences recorded decreases in value of 1.9m and 3.3m, respectively.
b Impairment The Directors undertook their annual review of the carrying value of hotels and property assets for indication of impairment and where appropriate, external valuations were also undertaken.
As a result of this review, an impairment charge of 29.4m was made for the year ended 31 December 2011, consisting of 15.8m in relation to eight Regional UK hotels in Rest of Europe, 8.2m for four hotels in Regional US, 1.0m in relation to one hotel in New Zealand and 4.4m in relation to land in India within Rest of Asia.
A 0.5m impairment charge also was made during the year ended 31 December 2011 relating to interest on a shareholder loan to the Groups 50% investment in Bangkok.
For 2010, the total impairment charge was 15.2m consisting of 8.8m in relation to six Regional UK hotels, 5.8m for six hotels in Regional US and 0.6m relating to the shareholder loan and interest in the Groups 50% investment in Bangkok.
c Gain on acquisition of subsidiary On 15 November 2010, Beijing Fortune Hotel Co Ltd, which owns and operates the Grand Millennium Hotel Beijing, became a 70% owned subsidiary following the Group exercising an option to buy an additional 40% interest from Beijing Xiangjiang Xinli Real Estate Development Co. Ltd.
The Group previously held a 30% interest in Beijing Fortune and accounted for its share of the results and net assets in accordance with IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
A 0.3m net gain arose on the transaction which consisted of a 8.4m gain from revaluing the previously held 30% interest, net of a 8.1m write-off of goodwill arising from the acquired 40% interest.
92 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Separately disclosed items continued d Redundancy costs In 2010, following a decision to redevelop the Orchid Hotel Singapore into apartments, a 1.7m provision was recorded in relation to redundancy costs announced to its workforce during 2010, associated with its closure in 2011. e Profit on sale and leaseback of Studio M Hotel On 3 May 2011, the Group completed the sale and leaseback of the Studio M Hotel to its REIT associate CDLHT for cash consideration of S$154.0m 75.7m, and this gave rise to a total realised pre-tax profit from the disposal of S$35.4m 17.4m which was recorded for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Total unrealised pre-tax profit from the disposal is S$19.1m 9.4m which has been credited to the balance sheet as investment in joint ventures and associates, arising from the Groups then 35.1% interest in the stapled securities of CDLHT.
f Profit on disposal of subsidiary For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group recorded a 1.7m gain from the disposal of CDL Hotels Phils.
Corporation, a Philippines based company principally providing management services to Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation, owner of The Heritage Hotel in the Philippines refer to note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
g Gain arising on disposal of leasehold property Following the earthquake in Christchurch, New Zealand, the Copthorne Hotel Christchurch City was closed down by Civil Defence Emergency Management.
The Copthorne Hotel Christchurch City was demolished in late 2011 and, accordingly, the net book value was fully written down in third quarter 2011.
A settlement was reached with the insurers and owner on the building and assets and the funds were received in fourth quarter 2011.
Consequently, 1.2m was recognised as a gain arising on disposal of leasehold property in the income statement.
This gain was the difference between the compensation received and the carrying value of the leased property.
h Gain on disposal of stapled securities in CDLHT In June 2011, the Group disposed of 760,000 stapled securities in CDLHT for S$1.6m 0.8m which net of the carrying value of the stapled securities and the dilution impact totalling S$1.2m 0.6m resulted in a net gain of S$0.4m 0.2m.
On 1 July 2010, CDLHT announced the issue of 116,960,000 new stapled securities, priced at S$1.71 each, pursuant to a private placement, and raising net proceeds of S$196.7m S$200.0m gross.
Proceeds were applied to pay down debt.
The Groups interest in CDLHT fell to 34.77% from its pre-issuance interest of 39.03%, which resulted in a gain of S$15.0m 7.2m.
The gain arose from the Groups share of proceeds being greater than its share of net tangible assets diluted by the issue.
i Revaluation gain of investment properties During the year ended 31 December 2011, certain investment properties of FSCL group were transferred to development properties at fair value.
At 31 December 2011, the investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open-market existing use basis.
The Groups share of the uplift in the value of the transferred properties at the date of transfer and of the investment properties at the end of 2011 was 9.2m 2010: 4.8m.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Groups share of CDLHTs net revaluation surplus of investment properties was 10.5m 2010: 4.4m.
j Disposal of subsidiaries in FSCL For the year ended 31 December 2011, FSCL recorded 0.2m of losses from the disposal of subsidiaries.
In 2010, the 2.3m charge represents the Groups share of provision against asset write-off and legal costs in FSCL relating to the disposal of subsidiaries.
93 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8 Personnel expenses 2011 2010 m m Wages and salaries 225.7 226.9 Compulsory social security contributions 33.5 33.3 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 9.9 9.2 Defined benefit pension cost credit recorded in the statement of comprehensive income 2.4 1.1 Defined benefit pension costs recorded in the income statement 2.3 2.5 Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 1.3 0.8 275.1 270.0 The average number of employees employed by the Group including Directors during the year analysed by category was as follows: 2011 2010 Number Number Hotel operating staff 8,565 8,960 Management administration 1,365 1,219 Sales and marketing 398 500 Repairs and maintenance 584 553 10,912 11,232 Directors remuneration Details of Directors remuneration, share options, long-term incentive schemes and Directors pension entitlements and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 62.
9 Net finance expense 2011 2010 m m Interest income 3.7 2.2 Interest receivable from joint ventures 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange gain 1.3 6.1 Finance income 5.5 8.8 Interest expense 10.1 8.5 Foreign exchange loss 2.1 6.2 Finance expense 12.2 14.7 Net finance expense 6.7 5.9 94 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Income tax expense 2011 2010 m m Current tax Corporation tax charge for the year 46.3 29.6 Adjustment in respect of prior years 7.5 4.5 Total current tax expense 38.8 25.1 Deferred tax note 26 Origination and reversal of timing differences 8.9 5.1 Effect of change in tax rate on opening deferred taxes 2.8 7.4 Benefits of tax losses recognised 3.1 0.2 Change in tax legislation 11.9 Over under provision in respect of prior years 2.0 6.0 Total deferred tax credit charge 10.6 5.6 Total income tax charge in the consolidated income statement 28.2 30.7 UK 2.0 7.1 Overseas 30.2 23.6 Total income tax charge in the consolidated income statement 28.2 30.7 The Group recorded a tax expense of 28.2m 2010: 30.7m excluding the tax relating to joint ventures and associates, giving rise to an effective tax rate of 18.1% 2010: 29.6%.
The effective tax rate has been affected by a number of factors which include the following items: Separately disclosed items of the Group: Sale of Kuala Lumpur land: Release of a dilapidation provision for the Stuttgart hotel whose lease expired on 31 August 2011: A change in 2010 of New Zealand tax legislation, which removed the ability to depreciate buildings for tax purposes that resulted in an increased deferred tax liability in that year: Reduced tax rates applied to brought forward net deferred tax liabilities in the UK and additionally for 2010 in Taiwan and New Zealand: and Tax adjustments in respect of previous years.
Excluding the impact of the items noted above, the Groups underlying effective tax rate is 27.7% 2010: 28.9%.
A tax charge of 5.4m 2010: 4.4m relating to joint ventures and associates is included in the reported profit before tax.
Effect of changes in tax rates The credit in 2011 of 2.8m 2010: 7.4m relates to a reduction in the tax rate in the UK 2010: Taiwan, New Zealand and UK on opening deferred taxes.
With regard to the UK, a reduction to 26% in the rate applicable from 1 April 2011, and a further reduction to 25% in the rate applicable from 1 April 2012 were substantially enacted during the year and this has reduced the deferred tax liability as at 31 December 2011, now calculated at 25%.
The UK budget on 23 March 2011 also announced further annual reductions in rate by 1% to 23% by 1 April 2014.
If enacted, such further reductions in rate would further reduce the future tax charge and deferred tax liabilities, the impact of which has not been fully assessed but is not anticipated to have a material impact on the financial statements.
Adjustments in respect of prior years The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal 95 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Income tax expense continued legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
The geographical complexity of the Groups structure makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the efficacy of the legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Income tax reconciliation 2011 2010 m m Profit before income tax in income statement 193.3 128.6 1 Less share of profits of joint ventures and associates 37.5 24.8 Profit on ordinary activities excluding share of joint ventures and associates 155.8 103.8 Income tax on ordinary activities at the standard rate of UK tax of 26.5% 2010: 28.0% 41.3 29.1 Tax exempt income 4.4 5.3 Non-deductible expenses 8.5 4.8 Recognition of deferred tax on share of undistributed associates profit 0.6 0.2 Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 1.1 0.7 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 2.1 1.0 Recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses 0.9 0.2 Effect of tax rates on separately disclosed items 3.3 3.0 Other effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 0.3 2.2 Effect of change in tax rates on opening deferred taxes 2.8 7.4 Changes in tax legislation 11.9 2 Other adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 9.5 1.5 Income tax expense per consolidated income statement 28.2 30.7 1 The effective rate of tax for joint ventures and associates before separately disclosed items is 11.7% 2010: 16.9%.
This is lower than the standard rate of UK tax of 26.5% 2010: 28.0%, due to lower rates of corporation tax being applicable in the jurisdictions in which the entities operate and the effects of tax exempt income.
2 Comprising 7.5m credit 2010: 4.5m credit in respect of current tax and 2.0m credit 2010: 6.0m charge in respect of deferred tax.
Income tax on income and expense recognised directly in equity 2011 2010 m m Taxation credit expense arising on defined benefit pension schemes 0.6 0.5 Taxation expense arising from cash flow hedging 0.2 Taxation credit expense other 1.8 0.5 2.4 1.2 96 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11 Earnings per share Earnings per share are calculated using the following information: 2011 2010 a Basic Profit for year attributable to holders of the parent m 160.9 96.2 Weighted average number of shares in issue m 315.6 311.8 Basic earnings per share pence 51.0p 30.9p b Diluted Profit for year attributable to holders of the parent m 160.9 96.2 Weighted average number of shares in issue m 315.6 311.8 Potentially dilutive share options under Groups share option schemes m 1.3 1.2 Weighted average number of shares in issue diluted m 316.9 313.0 Diluted earnings per share pence 50.8p 30.7p c Headline earnings per share pence Profit for year attributable to holders of the parent m 160.9 96.2 Adjustments for: Separately disclosed items Group net of tax and non-controlling interests m 1.7 1.6 Share of separately disclosed items of joint ventures and associates net of tax and non-controlling interests m 15.7 5.4 Changes in tax rates on opening deferred tax m 2.8 7.4 Changes in tax legislation m 11.9 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to holders of the parent m 144.1 93.7 Weighted average number of shares in issue m 315.6 311.8 Headline earnings per share pence 45.7p 30.1p d Diluted headline earnings per share pence Adjusted profit for the year attributable to the holders of the parent m 144.1 93.7 Weighted average number of shares in issue diluted m 316.9 313.0 Diluted headline earnings per share pence 45.5p 29.9p 97 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Property, plant and equipment Plant and Land Capital Fixtures, machinery and work in fittings and and buildings progress equipment vehicles Total Notes m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2010 2,060.1 22.0 102.7 175.3 2,360.1 Additions 6.9 5.1 2.2 7.2 21.4 Acquisition a 46.2 10.8 6.9 63.9 Transfers 12.2 18.3 1.5 4.6 Disposal 0.2 5.2 7.2 12.6 Foreign exchange adjustments 96.7 4.0 6.3 10.6 117.6 Balance at 31 December 2010 2,222.1 12.6 118.3 197.4 2,550.4 Balance at 1 January 2011 2,222.1 12.6 118.3 197.4 2,550.4 Additions 1.6 13.4 3.4 8.0 26.4 Transfer to development properties 41.6 6.5 1.0 49.1 Transfers 5.2 9.9 4.3 10.8 Disposal to REIT 15.0 4.9 5.6 25.5 Disposal other 2.8 5.0 19.9 27.7 Written off 14.0 44.5 58.5 Foreign exchange adjustments 30.8 0.1 3.3 2.8 37.0 Balance at 31 December 2011 2,128.3 16.0 92.3 142.4 2,379.0 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2010 132.6 1.7 34.6 146.1 315.0 Charge for year 11.3 4.0 16.8 32.1 Impairment b 14.6 14.6 Transfers 1.7 1.7 Disposal 5.2 7.0 12.2 Foreign exchange adjustments 3.7 6.2 5.3 15.2 Balance at 31 December 2010 163.9 39.6 161.2 364.7 Balance at 1 January 2011 163.9 39.6 161.2 364.7 Charge for the year 11.7 6.0 16.4 34.1 Impairment b 28.2 1.2 29.4 Transfer to development properties 1.1 1.0 2.1 Transfers 0.6 0.8 0.2 Disposal to REIT 0.2 0.3 0.5 Disposal other 1.3 5.0 19.9 26.2 Written off 14.0 44.5 58.5 Foreign exchange adjustments 2.3 1.6 2.1 6.0 Balance at 31 December 2011 199.7 1.2 24.0 110.0 334.9 Carrying amounts At 31 December 2011 1,928.6 14.8 68.3 32.4 2,044.1 At 31 December 2010 2,058.2 12.6 78.7 36.2 2,185.7 98 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Property, plant and equipment continued a Acquisition In November 2010, Beijing Fortune Hotel Co Ltd became a 70.0% owned subsidiary following an option to buy an additional 40.0%.
The acquired assets have been accounted for at fair value.
b Impairment Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment based on each cash generating unit CGU.
The CGUs are individual hotels.
The carrying value of individual hotels was compared to the recoverable amount of the hotels, which was predominantly based on value-in-use.
For 2011, where indicators of impairment were present, the Group estimated value-in-use through creation of discounted cash flow models, based on future trading performance expected by management.
The underlying basis for the impairment model involves each hotels projected cash flow for the financial year ending 31 December 2012, extrapolated to incorporate individual assumptions in respect of revenue growth principally factoring in room rate and occupancy growth and major expense lines.
Where appropriate, the Directors sought guidance on value through a registered independent appraiser with an appropriately recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the hotel being valued.
On the basis of both external and internal valuations in 2011, the Group recorded an impairment charge of 29.9m within administrative expenses as shown in note 6 which comprises a 29.4m charge relating to property, plant and equipment and a 0.5m charge relating to impairment of additional interest on the shareholder loan in the 50% owned joint venture investment in Thailand.
The 29.4m impairment charge was made in relation to eight Regional UK hotels, four Regional US hotels and one New Zealand hotel all primarily as a result of reduced trading performance, and land in India following a decision not to proceed with building two hotels as a result of changing market conditions.
For 2010, the Group recorded an impairment charge of 15.2m within administrative expenses which comprised 14.6m relating to six hotels in Regional UK and six hotels in Regional US and a 0.6m charge relating to impairment of the additional shareholder loan and interest in the 50% owned joint venture investment in Thailand.
The 2011 impairment charge and the estimated recoverable amount was based on the properties value in use, determined using discount rates ranging from 6.0% to 13.0% 2010: 6.5% to 14.5%.
c Land and buildings Land and buildings includes long leasehold building assets with a book value of 445.0m 2010: 463.6m.
The net book value of land and buildings held under short leases was 54.3m 2010: 67.9m, in respect of which depreciation of 5.7m 2010: 2.6m was charged during the year.
Interest of nil 2010: nil has been capitalised within land and buildings during the year.
The cumulative capitalised interest within land and buildings is 4.4m 2010: 4.4m.
d Pledged assets At year-end, the net book value of assets pledged as collateral for secured loans was 288.6m 2010: 265.3m.
The security for the loans is by way of charges on the properties of Group companies concerned.
e Key assumptions used by the external appraisers The key assumptions used were as follows: Pre-tax discount rate The discount rate is based on the country in which the hotel is located and is adjusted for risks associated with the hotel.
Occupancy rate The occupancy growth rates ranged from 0% to 10% in the US, 0% to 5% in Europe, 0% to 4% in Asia and 1% to 6% in New Zealand.
Average room rate The average room growth rates ranged from 3% to 9% in the US, 3% to 5% in Europe, 3% to 6% in Asia and 1% to 3% in New Zealand.
f Sensitivities The Groups impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used, most notably the discount rates and revenue growth assumptions.
Based on the Groups sensitivity analysis, a reasonable possible change in a single factor could result in impairment in certain hotels in Regional UK, Regional US, Asia and New Zealand as their fair value currently exceeds their carrying value only by a small percentage.
99 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Lease premium prepayment 2011 2010 m m Cost Balance at 1 January 76.5 28.1 Disposal note a 26.2 Acquisition note b 45.0 Foreign exchange adjustments 1.1 3.4 Balance at 31 December 51.4 76.5 Amortisation Balance at 1 January 3.2 2.3 Charge for the year 1.4 0.6 Disposal note a 2.0 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 0.3 Balance at 31 December 2.7 3.2 Carrying amount 48.7 73.3 Analysed between: Amount due after more than one year included in non-current assets 47.3 71.5 Amount due within one year included in current assets 1.4 1.8 48.7 73.3 a Disposal The disposals comprise the sale of Studio M Hotel and the disposal of a leasehold interest in Copthorne Hotel Christchurch.
b Acquisition The addition in 2010 represents the acquisition of leasehold land in acquiring a 70% interest in Beijing Fortune Hotel Co Ltd refer to note 31.
100 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Investment properties Investment properties owned by the Group comprise offices and a shopping-cum-office complex, a land site allocated for the future construction of condominiums Sunnyvale residences and a land site in the Ginza district of Tokyo, Japan.
Movements in the year analysed as: 2011 2010 Investment Investment Completed properties Completed property investment under investment under property construction Total property construction Total m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 88.3 6.6 94.9 73.7 9.6 83.3 Subsequent expenditure 0.2 81.1 81.3 Adjustment to fair value 0.9 0.9 7.4 3.3 4.1 Foreign exchange adjustment 1.7 1.5 3.2 7.2 0.3 7.5 Balance at 31 December 87.7 86.2 173.9 88.3 6.6 94.9 Analysed as: 2011 2010 Investment properties under Investment properties under Offices and Offices and construction construction a shoppinga shoppingcum-office cum-office complex Residential Hotel Total complex Residential Hotel Total m m m m m m m m Completed investment property 87.7 87.7 88.3 88.3 Investment property under construction 6.5 79.7 86.2 6.6 6.6 Balance at 31 December 87.7 6.5 79.7 173.9 88.3 6.6 94.9 In general, the carrying amount of investment property is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent appraiser having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values were determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
At the end of 2011, those Group investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open market existing use basis by the following accredited independent valuers: Property Valuer Tanglin Shopping Centre, Singapore DTZ Debenham Tie Leung SEA Pte Ltd Biltmore Court & Tower, Los Angeles Sequoia Hotel Advisors, LLC Sunnyvale residences Sequoia Hotel Advisors, LLC Based on these valuations, together with such considerations as the Directors consider appropriate, the Tanglin Shopping Centre recorded an uplift in value of 1.0m, Biltmore Court & Tower recorded a decrease in value of 0.1m and Sunnyvale residences recorded no change.
In 2010, Tanglin Shopping Centre recorded an uplift in value of 9.3m whereas Biltmore Court & Tower and Sunnyvale residences recorded decreases in value of 1.9m and 3.3m, respectively.
Further details in respect of investment property rentals are given in note 32.
101 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates: Effective Group interest 2011 2010 Joint ventures New Unity Holdings Limited 50.0% 50.0% Fena Estate Company Limited 50.0% 50.0% Associates CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT see note a below 35.2% 34.9% First Sponsor Capital Limited FSCL 39.3% 41.2% Joint Joint ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Share of net assets cost Balance at 1 January 89.5 307.3 396.8 80.3 246.1 326.4 Share of profit for the year 6.9 30.6 37.5 6.3 18.5 24.8 Additions see note b 24.7 24.7 20.1 20.1 Gain on dilution of investment see note c 0.6 0.6 7.2 7.2 Gain on revaluation of step acquisition 8.4 8.4 Reclassification as a subsidiary see note d below 8.4 8.4 Unrealised profit on sale of Studio M hotel to CDLHT see note e 9.4 9.4 Dividends received 17.8 17.8 15.2 15.2 Foreign exchange adjustments 1.4 2.3 3.7 2.9 30.6 33.5 Other movements 4.7 4.7 Balance at 31 December 95.0 327.8 422.8 89.5 307.3 396.8 Share of profit for the year Operating profit before separately disclosed items 13.9 14.9 28.8 12.2 16.9 29.1 Separately disclosed items see note f 19.5 19.5 6.9 6.9 Interest, tax and non-controlling interests 7.0 3.8 10.8 5.9 5.3 11.2 Analysed between: Interest 1.7 1.7 0.1 2.9 3.0 Tax 2.6 2.8 5.4 2.1 2.3 4.4 Non-controlling interests 4.4 0.7 3.7 3.7 0.1 3.8 6.9 30.6 37.5 6.3 18.5 24.8 102 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Notes a CDLHT is quoted on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited and as at 31 December 2011 its share price was S$1.545 2010: S$2.08.
For the Groups 35.2% 2010: 34.9% interest, this equates to a market capitalisation of 258.2m 2010: 348.0m.
b Additions associates The Group received stapled units in CDLHT in lieu of payment of management fees and an acquisition fee amounting to 5.4m in 2011 2010: 3.7m and in 2011 invested 19.3m 2010: 16.4m in FSCL.
c Gain on dilution of investment In June 2011, the Group disposed of 760,000 stapled securities in CDLHT for S$1.6m 0.8m which net of the carrying value of the stapled securities and the dilution impact totalling S$1.2m 0.6m resulted in a gain of S$0.4m 0.2m.
On 1 July 2010, CDLHT announced the issue of 116,960,000 new stapled securities, priced at S$1.71 each, pursuant to a private placement, and raised net proceeds of S$196.7m S$200.0m gross.
The Groups interest in CDLHT fell to 34.77% from its pre-issuance interest of 39.03%, which resulted in a non-cash gain of S$15.0m 7.2m.
d On 15 November 2010, the Group gained control of Beijing Fortune Hotel Co Ltd and from this date it has been consolidated as a subsidiary.
e On 3 May 2011, the Group completed the sale and leaseback of the Studio M Hotel to CDLHT for cash consideration of S$154.0m 75.7m, and this gave rise to a total realised pre-tax profit from the disposal of S$35.4m 17.4m which was recorded for the year ended 31 December 2011.
f Separately disclosed items During the year ended 31 December 2011, certain investment properties of FSCL were transferred to development properties at fair value.
At 31 December 2011, the investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an openmarket existing use basis.
The Groups share of the uplift in the value of the transferred properties and the investment properties at the end of the year was 9.2m.
The Groups share of CDLHTs net revaluation surplus of investment properties was 10.5m.
In addition, FSCL recorded 0.2m of losses from the disposal of subsidiaries.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, the Groups share of FSCLs and CDLHTs net revaluation surplus of investment properties was 4.8m and 4.4m, respectively.
In addition, the Groups share of provision against asset write-off and legal costs in FSCL were 2.3m.
2011 2010 m m Summary information on joint ventures 100% Revenue 99.4 90.9 Expenses 85.6 78.2 Profit for the year 13.8 12.7 Assets Non-current assets 306.1 315.8 Current assets 68.6 64.1 Total assets 374.7 379.9 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 87.0 111.6 Current liabilities 36.7 26.4 Total liabilities 123.7 138.0 Total assets less total liabilities 251.0 241.9 Less non-controlling share of net assets 61.0 62.4 Net assets 100% 190.0 179.5 103 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 2011 2010 m m Summary information on associates 100% Revenue 78.4 78.4 Surplus on revaluation of investment properties 48.3 22.2 Other operating expense 0.4 4.6 Expenses 41.8 45.1 Profit for the year 84.5 50.9 Assets Non-current assets 1,029.2 906.4 Current assets 341.4 205.1 Total assets 1,370.6 1,111.5 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 281.4 204.3 Current liabilities 228.4 75.5 Total liabilities 509.8 279.8 Total assets less total liabilities 860.8 831.7 Less non-controlling share of net assets 5.9 15.7 Net assets 100% 854.9 816.0 At 31 December 2011, the Groups share of the total capital commitments of joint ventures amounted to nil 2010: 0.2m.
At 31 December 2011, the Groups joint ventures and associates had no significant contingent liabilities 2010: nil.
16 Other financial assets 2011 2010 m m Other financial assets included within non-current assets comprise: Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale 4.6 4.6 Deposits receivable 3.2 2.3 7.8 6.9 17 Inventories 2011 2010 m m Consumables 4.0 4.5 104 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Development properties 2011 2010 m m Development properties comprise: Development land for resale New Zealand landbank 43.7 43.1 Kuala Lumpur 9.1 Development property Zenith 29.5 29.9 Glyndebourne redevelopment of Copthorne Orchid hotel 75.1 21.2 148.3 103.3 19 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 m m Trade receivables due from joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.6 Trade receivables 36.0 30.6 Other receivables 12.6 11.7 Prepayments and accrued income 20.9 25.1 70.1 68.0 Trade receivables are shown net of an impairment allowance of 1.2m 2010: 1.1m relating to the likely insolvencies of customers.
The Groups exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 22.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 148.3 77.6 Short-term deposits 183.9 174.3 Cash and cash equivalents on the statement of financial position 332.2 251.9 Overdraft bank accounts included in borrowings 56.9 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents shown in the cash flow statement 275.3 251.5 The Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets are disclosed in note 22.
105 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21 Interest-bearing loans, bonds and borrowings 2011 2010 m m Included within non-current liabilities: Bank loans 172.9 139.5 Bonds payable 138.7 184.2 311.6 323.7 2011 2010 m m Included within current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts 78.5 34.3 Bonds payable 42.3 59.6 120.8 93.9 Further details in respect of financial liabilities are given in note 22.
22 Financial instruments Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, and the Groups policies and processes for measuring and managing risk.
a Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investment securities.
Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis, with credit checks performed on all clients requiring credit over certain amounts.
Credit is not extended beyond authorised limits, established where appropriate through consultation with a professional credit vetting organisation.
Credit granted is subject to regular review, to ensure it remains consistent with the clients current creditworthiness and appropriate to the anticipated volume of business.
Investments are allowed only in liquid short-term instruments within approved limits, with investment counterparties approved by the Board, such that the exposure to a single counterparty is minimised.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset on the balance sheet, these being spread across the various currencies and jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
106 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Carrying value 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand see note 20 148.3 77.6 Short-term deposits see note 20 183.9 174.3 Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale see note 16 4.6 4.6 Deposits receivable see note 16 3.2 2.3 Trade receivables see note 19 36.0 30.6 Trade receivables due from joint ventures and associates see note 19 0.6 0.6 Other receivables see note 19 12.6 11.7 Loans due from associate 69.0 458.2 301.7 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: Carrying value 2011 2010 m m New York 5.5 5.2 Regional US 3.1 3.3 London 0.3 0.3 Rest of Europe 5.4 6.0 Singapore 11.8 7.1 Rest of Asia 7.6 5.1 Australasia 2.3 3.6 Total Group 36.0 30.6 The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: Gross receivable Impairment allowance Carrying value 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Not past due 26.6 16.1 26.6 16.1 Past due 0 30 days 6.3 10.8 6.3 10.8 Past due 31 60 days 2.0 3.0 0.5 1.5 3.0 Past due 61 90 days 0.7 0.9 0.1 0.4 0.6 0.5 More than 90 days 1.6 0.9 0.6 0.7 1.0 0.2 Total Group 37.2 31.7 1.2 1.1 36.0 30.6 107 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 m m Balance at 1 January 1.1 1.2 Impairment recognised 0.1 Written-off 0.1 Balance at 31 December 1.2 1.1 Contractual maturities of financial assets 2011 6 months 6 months 1-5 More than Total or less 1 year years 5 years m m m m m Financial assets Fixed rate: Sterling 30.7 30.7 US dollar 15.1 15.1 Korean won 12.0 12.0 Singapore dollar 130.0 130.0 New Taiwan dollar 33.1 33.1 Australian dollar 11.0 11.0 New Zealand dollar 7.5 7.5 Malaysian ringgit 11.1 11.1 Euro 14.2 14.2 Others 16.7 16.7 Floating rate: US dollar 69.0 18.1 50.9 Non-interest bearing: Sterling 2.9 2.9 US dollar 19.1 14.5 4.6 Singapore dollar 26.4 23.2 0.1 3.1 New Taiwan dollar 0.6 0.6 Malaysian ringgit 1.1 1.1 Euro 2.3 2.3 Others 6.2 6.2 409.0 332.2 18.1 51.0 7.7 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents 332.2 Loans due from associate 69.0 Other financial assets non-current 7.8 409.0 108 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued Contractual maturities of financial assets 2010 6 months More than Total or less 5 years m m m Financial assets Fixed rate: Sterling 22.2 22.2 US dollar 5.0 5.0 Korean won 15.0 15.0 Singapore dollar 75.9 75.9 New Taiwan dollar 34.4 34.4 Australian dollar 11.8 11.8 New Zealand dollar 7.7 7.7 Malaysian ringgit 9.2 9.2 Euro 7.9 7.9 Others 5.7 5.7 Non-interest bearing: Sterling 1.5 1.5 US dollar 22.3 17.7 4.6 Korean won 0.1 0.1 Singapore dollar 23.3 21.0 2.3 New Taiwan dollar 0.5 0.5 Malaysian ringgit 1.0 1.0 Chinese renminbi 2.7 2.7 Euro 9.3 9.3 Others 3.3 3.3 258.8 251.9 6.9 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents 251.9 Other financial assets non-current 6.9 258.8 b Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
109 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments using the interest rates prevailing as at the reporting date.
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 31 December 2011 m m m m m m m Floating rate financial liabilities Secured loans 83.0 95.8 2.4 9.4 10.4 73.6 Unsecured loans 111.5 114.9 0.6 15.0 13.5 85.8 Unsecured bonds 181.0 183.3 25.5 18.5 139.3 Bank overdrafts 56.9 57.2 0.2 57.0 Trade and other payables Trade payables 21.1 21.1 21.1 Amounts owed to associates 3.7 3.7 3.7 Other creditors 16.1 16.1 16.1 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 0.3 0.3 0.3 Forward cross currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.6 0.6 0.6 Non-current liabilities Loan due to associate 11.8 14.2 0.4 0.4 0.9 12.5 Other non-current liabilities 7.0 7.0 0.8 5.6 0.6 493.0 514.2 70.0 100.3 165.8 177.5 0.6 Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 31 December 2010 m m m m m m m Floating rate financial liabilities Secured loans 83.9 104.9 6.3 25.8 3.7 11.0 58.1 Unsecured loans 89.5 91.4 0.5 3.6 71.0 16.3 Unsecured bonds 243.8 247.5 60.6 0.7 77.0 109.2 Bank overdrafts 0.4 0.4 0.4 Trade and other payables Trade payables 21.1 21.1 21.1 Amounts owed to associates 3.2 3.2 3.2 Other creditors 8.9 8.9 8.9 Interest rate swaps designated as cashflow hedges 0.5 0.5 0.5 Forward cross currency contracts designated as cashflow hedges 0.8 0.8 0.8 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 6.3 6.3 0.8 4.8 0.7 458.4 485.0 100.6 31.0 152.5 142.1 58.8 110 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued Undrawn committed borrowing facilities Undrawn borrowing facilities are available to the Group with the maturities as set out in the following table.
The conditions precedent to the availability of these facilities are all satisfied at the balance sheet date.
2011 2010 m m Expiring in one year or less 22.3 70.9 Expiring after more than one year but not more than two years 69.1 25.6 Expiring after more than two years but not more than five years 92.9 55.9 Total undrawn committed borrowing facilities 184.3 152.4 Security Included within the Groups total bank loans and overdrafts of 251.4m 2010: 173.8m are 83.5m 2010: 84.3m of secured loans and overdrafts.
Total bonds payable of 181.0m 2010: 243.8m are unsecured.
Loans and bonds are secured on land and buildings with a carrying value of 288.6m 2010: 265.3m and an assignment of insurance proceeds in respect of insurances over the mortgaged properties.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had 184.3m of undrawn and committed facilities available, comprising committed revolving credit facilities which provide the Group with financial flexibility.
Of the Groups total facilities of 666.8m, 192.0m matures during 2012, comprising 37.0m committed revolving credit facilities of which 22.3m is currently undrawn, 105.5m of uncommitted facilities and overdrafts subject to annual renewal, 42.3m unsecured bonds and 7.2m secured term loans.
Plans for the refinancing of maturing facilities are underway.
c Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The primary objectives of the treasury function are to provide secure and competitively priced funding for the activities of the Group and to identify and manage financial risks, including exposure to movements in interest and foreign exchange rates arising from those activities.
If appropriate, the Group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks, as set out below.
i Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on revenue, purchases, borrowings and cash deposits denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective Group entities.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollars, Singapore dollars, New Zealand dollars, New Taiwan dollars, Korean won, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen and Euro.
The Groups principal policy, wherever possible, is to maintain a natural hedge whereby liabilities are matched with assets denominated in the same currency.
Foreign currency investment exposure is also minimised by borrowing in the currency of the investment.
To mitigate foreign currency translation exposure, an appropriate proportion of net assets are designated as hedged against corresponding financial liabilities in the same currency.
Net investment hedging The Group has US$175.0m 2010: US$213.2m US dollar loans and S$202.0m 2010: S$208.5m Singapore dollar loans designated as hedges of corresponding respective proportions of its net investment in foreign operations whose functional currency is US dollars and Singapore dollars.
The risk being hedged is the foreign currency exposure on the carrying amount of the net assets of the foreign operation upon consolidation.
The fair value of the hedging instruments as at 31 December 2011 was 210.8m 2010: 242.9m.
There was no ineffectiveness recognised in the consolidated income statement that arose from hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
111 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued An analysis of borrowings by currency and their fair values as at 31 December is given below: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Singapore dollar 99.4 99.4 108.2 108.2 US dollar 177.1 177.1 225.1 225.1 New Zealand dollar 31.8 31.8 24.1 24.1 Chinese renminbi 51.7 51.7 60.2 60.2 Japanese yen 72.4 72.4 432.4 432.4 417.6 417.6 Exchange differences arising on foreign currency loans during each accounting period are recognised as a component of equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
The foreign exchange exposure arising on the Groups net investment in its subsidiaries is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the exposure arising on the Groups foreign currency borrowings.
Foreign currency transaction exposure is primarily managed through funding of purchases from operating income streams arising in the same currency.
Hedging of transaction exposure is undertaken with approved counterparties and within designated limits, using spot or short-term forward contracts to buy or sell the currency concerned, once the timing and the underlying amount of exposure have been determined.
Foreign exchange derivatives may also be used to hedge specific transaction exposure where appropriate.
Further details of foreign exchange derivatives in place at 31 December 2011 are provided below.
Cash flow hedges A number of forward cross currency swaps were executed in February 2010 to hedge the foreign currency risk in respect of the repayment in February 2013 of a US$30m loan using Korean won.
This loan was extended to a subsidiary in Korea, whose functional currency is Korean won.
The proceeds of the US dollar loan were converted into Korean won on inception, and the risk being hedged is the variability of the cash flow associated with the repayment of the US$30m loan principal on its maturity date in February 2013, arising from movement of Korean won against the US dollar over that three-year period.
The hedges are designated as a cash flow hedges, which are considered to be highly effective.
The carrying value of the hedging instruments is restated to its fair value at each reporting date, with the effective portion of changes in fair value since inception being taken to a cash flow hedge reserve.
The gain recognised in other comprehensive income during the year in respect of the change in fair value of these hedging instruments was 0.2m 2010: 0.4m loss.
Amounts recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement to offset gains and losses when the underlying debt instrument is retranslated at the exchange rate applicable at each period end, and there was no ineffectiveness recognised in the year as a charge in the consolidated income statement.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate Sterling 2011 2010 2011 2010 US dollar 1.606 1.547 1.572 1.541 Singapore dollar 2.011 2.111 2.030 1.993 New Taiwan dollar 46.979 48.531 46.644 45.461 New Zealand dollar 2.011 2.149 2.018 2.021 Malaysia ringgit 4.895 5.004 4.974 4.753 Korean won 1,771.54 1,792.11 1,808.82 1,757.5 Chinese renminbi 10.269 10.446 9.762 10.132 Euro 1.149 1.164 1.199 1.172 Japanese yen 127.259 136.200 121.892 126.540 112 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued Sensitivity analysis With respect to the Groups foreign currency translation exposure, and assuming that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant, it is estimated that a 10% strengthening of sterling against the following currencies at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: 10% would have decreased equity and profit or loss before tax by the amounts shown below: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Profit Profit Equity before tax Equity before tax m m m m US dollar 36.3 0.2 28.3 0.3 Singapore dollar 26.4 7.1 26.6 6.2 New Taiwan dollar 20.4 1.1 20.4 1.0 New Zealand dollar 17.2 1.0 15.8 0.9 Malaysia ringgit 6.4 3.9 7.1 0.5 Korean won 12.6 1.0 12.5 1.4 Euro 4.4 0.7 3.8 0.3 Chinese renminbi 12.7 0.2 10.0 0.1 Japanese yen 1.0 0.1 137.4 14.3 124.5 9.3 A 10% weakening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: 10% would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
ii Interest rate risk and interest rate swaps The Group adopts a policy of ongoing review of its exposure to changes in interest rates on its borrowings, taking into account market expectations with regard to the perceived level of risk associated with each currency, the maturity profile and cash flows of the underlying debt, and the extent to which debt may potentially be either prepaid prior to its maturity or refinanced at reduced cost.
The Groups policy is to maintain a mixture of its financial liabilities on a fixed and floating-rate basis with a greater emphasis on floating rates presently as this flexibility is considered to be appropriate in the context of the Groups overall geographical diversity, investment and business cycle and the stability of the income streams, cash balances and loan covenants.
Interest rate derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk, to the extent that the perceived cost is considered to outweigh the benefit from the flexibility of variable rate borrowings, and the Group actively monitors the need and timing for such derivatives.
Where used, interest rate derivatives are classified as cash flow hedges and stated at fair value within the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
Further details of interest rate derivatives in place at 31 December 2011 are provided below.
Cash flow hedges Borrowings at floating rates expose the Group to interest rate risk.
The Group has entered into a number of interest rate swaps to fix the interest relating to the payment of quarterly interest charges arising on floating rate unsecured bonds totalling US$50m, and designated these as cash flow hedges.
The risk being hedged is the variability of cash flows arising from movements in interest rates.
The hedges are in place until the bonds mature in March 2013.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps as at 31 December 2011 was a 0.3m liability 2010: 0.5m liability.
The cash flows occur on a quarterly basis until the loan balance matures in March 2013 and the hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, which are considered to be highly effective.
The gain recognised in other comprehensive income during the year in respect of the change in fair value of these hedging instruments was 0.1m 2010: 0.4m loss.
There was no ineffectiveness recognised in the consolidated income statement that arose from this cash flow hedge.
113 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments Assuming that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant, a change of one percentage point in the average interest rates applicable to variable rate instruments for the year would have increased decreased the Groups profit before tax for the year as shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 1% 1% 1% 1% increase decrease increase decrease m m m m Variable rate financial assets 2.3 2.3 0.9 0.9 Variable rate financial liabilities 3.7 3.7 3.6 3.6 Cash flow sensitivity net 1.4 1.4 2.7 2.7 d Fair value Set out below is a comparison of the fair and book values of all the Groups financial instruments by category.
Fair values are determined by reference to market values, where available, or calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
2011 2011 2010 2010 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 148.3 148.3 77.6 77.6 Short-term deposits 183.9 183.9 174.3 174.3 Available for sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available for sale 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.6 Loans and receivables Deposits receivable 3.2 3.8 2.3 3.1 Trade receivables 36.0 36.0 30.6 30.6 Trade receivables due from joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Other receivables 12.6 12.6 11.7 11.7 Short-term loan due from associate 18.1 18.1 Long-term loan due from associate 50.9 50.9 458.2 458.8 301.7 302.5 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 56.9 56.9 0.4 0.4 Short-term loans, bonds and borrowings 63.9 63.9 93.5 93.5 Long-term loans, bonds and borrowings 311.6 311.6 323.7 323.7 Trade payables 21.1 21.1 21.1 21.1 Amounts owed to associates 3.7 3.7 3.2 3.2 Other creditors 16.1 16.1 8.9 8.9 Long-term loan due to associate 11.8 11.8 Other non-current liabilities 7.0 6.8 6.3 6.2 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 Forward cross currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.6 0.6 0.8 0.8 493.0 492.8 458.4 458.3 114 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued Estimation of fair values The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Derivatives Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting the current spot rate.
For interest rate swaps bank valuations are used.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
Finance lease liabilities The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for similar lease agreements.
The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables payables For receivables payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
Interest rates used for determining fair value Prevailing market interest rates are used to discount cash flows to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
Available-for-sale financial assets unquoted equity investments Fair value is estimated using appropriate valuation techniques.
Fair value hierarchy As at 31 December 2011, the Group held certain financial instruments measured at fair value.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data 115 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value m m m m Available for sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available for sale 4.6 4.6 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m Available for sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available for sale 4.6 4.6 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Liabilities measured at fair value m m m m Other current financial assets Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 0.3 0.3 Forward cross currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.6 0.6 0.9 0.9 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Liabilities measured at fair value m m m m Other current financial assets Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 0.5 0.5 Forward cross country contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.8 0.8 1.3 1.3 During the year ended 31 December 2011, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measures.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Companys objective for managing its capital is to ensure that Group entities will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders, as well as sustaining the future development of its business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may alter the total amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, draw down additional debt or reduce debt.
The Groups capital structure consists of debt, which includes the loans and borrowings disclosed in note 21, cash and cash equivalents disclosed in note 20 and the equity attributable to the parent, comprising share capital, reserves and retained earnings, as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The Group seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
116 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Employee benefits Pension arrangements The Group operates various funded pension schemes which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
The most significant funds are described below.
United Kingdom The pension arrangements in the United Kingdom operate under the Millennium & Copthorne Pension Plan, which was set up in 1993.
The plan operates a funded defined benefit arrangement together with a defined contribution plan, both with different categories of membership.
The defined benefit section of the plan was closed to new entrants in 2001 and at the same time rights to a guaranteed minimum pension GMP under the defined contribution scheme also ceased.
The contributions required are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit credit method.
The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 6 April 2008 and this has been updated on an approximate basis to 31 December 2011.
The contributions of the Group during the year were 21.6% of pensionable salary, plus enhanced contributions of 1.4m per annum to reduce the Plans deficit.
At the date of these financial statements, the valuation as at 6 April 2011 was not finalised.
As the defined benefit section is closed to new entrants, the current service cost, as a percentage of pensionable payroll is likely to increase as the membership ages, although it will be applied to a decreasing pensionable payroll.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to mortality, the discount rate and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions.
Until the last actuarial valuation, the defined contribution plan section relating to GMP underpin had sufficient assets to meet the GMP liabilities and has not been accounted for as a defined benefit scheme under IAS 19 for periods up to and including 31 December 2010.
At 31 December 2011, there is a 2.4m deficit on the 7.5m defined contribution plan assets relating to those members with a GMP.
This section of the plan is now accounted for as a defined benefit scheme under IAS 19 as it exhibits the traits of a defined benefit plan.
The impact of this is shown in the analysis below which in summary is to introduce 7.5m into both UK plan assets and UK plan liabilities and, additionally, to record a 2.4m actuarial loss within defined benefit losses.
No prior year adjustment has been made as the amounts involved are not significant to the Group.
Korea The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for its employees in Korea.
The contributions required are determined by an external qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The most recent valuation was carried out on 31 December 2011.
The contributions of the Group were 10.7% 2010: 9.9% of the employees earnings.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuations are those relating to the discount rate and rate of increase in salaries.
At 31 December 2011, 319 members of the plan, representing approximately 60% of the total membership, chose to opt for a new defined contribution plan alternative.
This resulted in 4.0m reduction in plan assets, a 3.9m reduction in plan liabilities and a curtailment loss of 0.1m.
Taiwan The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for its employees in Taiwan.
The contributions of the Group were 6% 2010: 6% of the employees earnings.
117 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Employee benefits continued The assets of each scheme have been taken at market value and the liabilities have been calculated using the following principal assumptions: 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 UK Korea Taiwan UK Korea Taiwan Inflation rate 3.1% 3.6% Discount rate 4.7% 4.8% 1.9% 5.4% 5.0% 1.8% Rate of salary increase 3.6% 4.0% 2.5% 4.1% 4.0% 2.5% Rate of pension increases 3.1% 3.6% Annual expected return on plan assets 5.1% 4.2% 1.8% 6.4% 5.0% 1.8% The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered, may not be necessarily borne out in practice.
The present values of the schemes liabilities are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and are inherently uncertain.
The expected annual return on UK defined benefit plan assets for 2011 of 5.1% 2010: 6.4% has been calculated using a 5.4% 2010: 6.8% return on equity representing 63% 2010: 72% of plan assets and a 4.7% 2010: 5.4% return on cash and bonds representing 37% 2010: 28% of plan assets.
The discount rate used in respect of the UK pension scheme of 4.7% 2010: 5.4% was based on the yield of the Merrill Lynch over-15 year AA rated corporate bond index.
118 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Employee benefits continued Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2010 UK Korea Taiwan Total UK Korea Taiwan Total m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 26.1 6.2 2.5 34.8 22.2 5.7 2.1 30.0 Expected return on plan assets 1.7 0.2 0.1 2.0 1.5 0.3 1.8 Group contributions 1.8 1.2 0.6 3.6 1.6 1.2 0.5 3.3 Members contributions 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 1.3 0.6 0.1 2.0 1.6 1.3 0.4 3.3 Settlement 3.9 3.9 Experience gains 0.4 0.4 2.3 2.3 Other# 7.5 7.5 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.6 Balance at 31 December 35.5 3.0 3.0 41.5 26.1 6.2 2.5 34.8 Actual return on plan assets 1.3 0.2 0.1 1.6 3.8 0.3 4.1 # Refer to details on United Kingdom pension arrangements on page 117.
The Group expects 2.5m in contributions to be paid to the defined benefit plans in 2012.
The fair values of plan assets in each category are as follows: 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2010 UK Korea Taiwan Total UK Korea Taiwan Total m m m m m m m m Equities 24.1 24.1 18.7 18.7 Bonds 11.0 11.0 7.2 7.2 Cash 0.4 3.0 3.0 6.4 0.2 6.2 2.5 8.9 35.5 3.0 3.0 41.5 26.1 6.2 2.5 34.8 The expense recognised in the income statement is as follows: 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Current service cost 0.7 0.9 0.2 0.1 1.9 0.6 0.9 0.3 0.1 1.9 Interest cost on obligation 1.9 0.2 0.1 0.1 2.3 1.9 0.3 0.2 2.4 Expected return on plan assets 1.7 0.2 0.1 2.0 1.5 0.3 1.8 Curtailment loss 0.1 0.1 0.9 1.0 0.2 0.2 2.3 1.0 0.9 0.5 0.1 2.5 2011 2010 Total cost is recognised within the following items in the income statement: m m Cost of sales 1.1 1.1 Administrative expenses 1.2 1.4 2.3 2.5 119 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Employee benefits continued The gains or losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is as follows: 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Actual return less expected return on plan assets 0.4 0.4 2.3 2.3 Experience losses gains on 1 plan liabilities 2.0 0.1 0.1 2.0 0.8 0.2 0.1 0.5 Changes in demographic and financial assumptions underlying the present value of plan liabilities 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 1.1 0.5 1.6 Defined benefit plan actuarial losses gains 2.2 0.2 0.1 2.3 2.0 0.2 0.6 1.2 1 The UK plan experience loss of 2.0m includes a 2.4m deficit on defined contribution plan assets referred to on page 117.
2011 2010 Actuarial losses recognised directly in equity are as follows: m m Cumulative as at 1 January 10.8 12.0 Actuarial losses gains recognised during the year 2.3 1.2 Cumulative as at 31 December 13.1 10.8 The principal causes for the UK Plan actuarial loss in 2011 were positive impacts from reduced inflation and a change to Consumer Prices Index net of unfavourable fall in equities and taking into account the 2.4m impact of a GMP underpin from the DC Scheme, refer to page 117.
The principal cause for actuarial gains in 2010 was an increase in inflation, and falls in bond yields and equity values.
Mortality rates used reflect an industry wide recognition that life expectancy has increased.
The life expectancies underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the UK Plan, based on retirement age of 65, are as follows: 2011 2010 Years Years Males 25 25 Females 27 28 Trend analysis 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 46.5 2.6 9.0 0.9 59.0 Fair value of plan assets 35.5 3.0 3.0 41.5 Plan deficit surplus 11.0 0.4 6.0 0.9 17.5 Actuarial losses gains on plan liabilities 1.8 0.2 0.1 1.9 Experience losses on plan assets 0.4 0.4 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 35.9 5.8 8.9 0.9 51.5 Fair value of plan assets 26.1 6.2 2.5 34.8 Plan deficit surplus 9.8 0.4 6.4 0.9 16.7 Actuarial losses on plan liabilities 0.3 0.2 0.6 1.1 Experience gains on plan assets 2.3 2.3 120 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Employee benefits continued 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 34.7 5.4 7.3 0.7 48.1 Fair value of plan assets 22.2 5.7 2.1 30.0 Plan deficit surplus 12.5 0.3 5.2 0.7 18.1 Actuarial losses gains on plan liabilities 7.4 0.1 0.3 0.2 7.4 Experience gains on plan assets 0.9 0.9 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 26.6 5.8 7.7 0.6 40.7 Fair value of plan assets 19.3 6.6 2.0 27.9 Plan deficit surplus 7.3 0.8 5.7 0.6 12.8 Actuarial gains on plan liabilities 6.7 0.4 7.1 Experience losses on plan assets 6.1 0.1 6.2 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 31.5 5.3 6.4 0.5 43.7 Fair value of plan assets 22.8 6.3 1.7 30.8 Plan deficit surplus 8.7 1.0 4.7 0.5 12.9 Actuarial gains losses on plan liabilities 1.4 0.1 1.3 Experience losses on plan assets 0.6 0.6 Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share option schemes which are designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
Details of these schemes are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
In accordance with the Groups accounting policy N iv on share-based payment transactions, the fair value of share options and long-term incentive awards are recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the share options and long-term incentive awards.
The charge to the income statement for the year was 1.3m 2010: credit of 0.8m.
The Group applied IFRS 2 to its active employee share-based payment arrangements at 1 January 2005 except for arrangements granted before 7 November 2002.
121 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Employee benefits continued i Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Long-Term Incentive Plan Performance Share Awards under this scheme are awarded to executive Directors and senior management of the Group.
Credited Awards Awards Awards Awards Awards Awards Credited to to share outstanding as awarded vested during forfeited expired outstanding as share capital premium Date of Award at 1 Jan 2011 during the year the year during the year during the year at 31 Dec 2011 000 000 Vesting date 25.06.2008 507,586 507,586 25.06.2011 30.03.2009 1,208,807 133,061 1,075,746 30.03.2012 16.09.2010 655,042 1,452 135,825 517,765 16.09.2013 28.11.2011 941,126 941,126 28.11.2014 2,371,435 941,126 1,452 776,472 2,534,637 No new M&C shares were issued to satisfy the vesting of the Award as treasury shares held by employee benefit trust were utilised.
ii Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme Share options under this scheme are granted to executive Directors and senior management of the Group.
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range 1.54 to 5.20 and a weighted average contractual life of 1.62 years.
The following awards options were granted in the current year and comparative year: Share price prevailing Awards on date of Expected options grant Exercise price Fair value Expected Expected dividend Risk-free 2011 Awards options Date of grant granted term years volatility yield interest rates LTIP EPS element Directors 28.11.2011 128,215 3.91 3.63 3.00 2.55% LTIP EPS element non-Directors 28.11.2011 342,348 3.91 3.63 3.00 2.55% LTIP TSR element Directors 28.11.2011 128,215 3.91 1.28 3.00 31.0% 2.55% 0.60% LTIP TSR element non-Directors 28.11.2011 342,348 3.91 1.28 3.00 31.0% 2.55% 0.60% Sharesave Scheme 3 year 19.04.2011 37,411 5.32 4.18 2.03 3.25 46.0% 1.88% 1.72% Sharesave Scheme 5 year 19.04.2011 9,120 5.32 4.18 2.18 5.25 41.0% 1.88% 2.50% 50% of the new LTIP options granted in 2011 are conditional upon the market performance of the Company.
Share price prevailing Awards on date of options grant Exercise price Fair value Expected Expected Expected Risk-free 2010 Awards options Date of grant granted term years volatility yield interest rates LTIP EPS element Directors 16.09.2010 56,936 5.25 5.07 3.00 1.19% LTIP EPS element non-Directors 16.09.2010 643,276 5.25 5.07 3.00 1.19% Sharesave Scheme 3 year 01.04.2010 47,025 4.90 3.30 2.24 3.25 48.0% 1.27% 1.91% Sharesave Scheme 5 year 01.04.2010 18,088 4.90 3.30 2.33 5.25 39.8% 1.27% 2.76% Measurement of fair value The LTIP and Sharesave awards, which are subject to an EPS performance condition, were valued using the Black-Scholes valuation method.
The LTIP awards which are subject to a share price related performance condition i. e. TSR were valued using the Monte Carlo valuation method.
The option pricing model involves six variables: Exercise price Share price at grant Expected term Expected volatility of share price Risk-free interest rate Expected dividend yield 123 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Provisions Dilapidation Legal Onerous lease Beijing indemnity Total m m m m m Balance at 31 December 2010 as previously reported 0.6 0.6 Reclassification from trade and other payables 6.6 5.1 7.6 19.3 Balance at 1 January 2011 6.6 5.1 0.6 7.6 19.9 Additions 2.5 2.5 Utilised 6.6 0.2 0.2 7.0 Balance at 31 December 2011 7.4 0.4 7.6 15.4 Analysed as: Non-current provision 0.2 7.6 7.8 Current provision 7.4 0.2 7.6 7.4 0.4 7.6 15.4 Provision for legal fees as at 31 December 2011 of 7.4m 2010: 5.1m relates to disputes in several US hotels, credit card issues and management contract disagreement.
The Group also provided 7.6m 2010: 7.6m of tax indemnity to the former shareholders of Grand Millennium Hotel Beijing which it acquired an additional 40% interest in 2010.
A provision for onerous contract of 0.4m 2010: 0.6m was recognised as the expected benefits to be derived by the Group direct from the contract were lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
As at 31 December 2009, the provisions relating to dilapidation, legal and an onerous lease were 3.9m, 5.0m and 0.8m, respectively.
Both the dilapidation and legal provisions were included in trade and other payables see note 27 as at 31 December 2009.
25 Other non-current liabilities 2011 2010 m m Deferred income 179.7 158.8 Other liabilities 7.0 6.3 186.7 165.1 Note 3 section entitled Lease backs from CDLHT explains how prepaid operating land lease income is recognised as deferred income.
At 31 December 2011, an amount of 115.2m 2010: 119.0m is recognised in the statement of financial position as deferred income, 113.5m 2010: 117.3m in non-current liabilities and 1.7m 2010: 1.7m in trade and other payables see note 27.
In addition, at 31 December 2011 66.2m 2010: 41.5m was received as deposits for sale of condominiums under the redevelopment of the Copthorne Orchid Hotel which is due for completion by 2015.
124 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 Deferred taxation Movements in deferred tax liabilities and assets prior to offsetting balances during the year are as follows: Charged credited to income statement Other At adjustment Current Charged At 1 January Change in to opening year credited to Exchange on 31 December 2 2011 tax rate provision movement reserves translation 2011 m m m m m m m Deferred tax liabilities 1 Property assets 274.7 2.9 0.7 8.0 4.6 258.5 Share of profits of associate 0.1 0.6 0.7 274.8 2.9 0.7 7.4 4.6 259.2 Deferred tax assets Tax losses 12.9 2.1 3.1 0.1 11.8 3 Employee benefits 8.0 0.3 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.5 6.4 Others 2.1 0.2 0.9 1.4 1.8 4.6 23.0 0.1 1.3 1.6 0.8 0.6 22.8 Deferred tax liabilities 251.8 2.8 2.0 5.8 0.8 4.0 236.4 1 Property assets comprise plant, property and equipment, lease premium prepayment and investment properties.
2 2.0m of deferred tax has been credited due to under provisions in respect of prior years, the conclusion of reviews by tax authorities and other timing differences.
3 Employee benefits comprise defined benefit pension schemes and share-based payment arrangements.
In relation to 1.0m charged to reserves in 2011, there is a 0.6m credit relating to defined benefit pension schemes and a 1.6m charge relating to share-based payment arrangements.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when deferred taxes relate to the same taxation authority.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
2011 2010 m m Deductible temporary differences 2.1 1.0 Tax losses 0.2 0.5 1.9 1.5 Adjustments due to: Deductible temporary differences in respect of prior year 3.9 4.7 Tax losses in subsidiary acquired 3.6 Tax losses in respect of prior year 13.2 10.6 15.2 20.4 125 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 Deferred taxation continued The deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
The tax losses are subject to agreement by the tax authorities and compliance with tax regulations in the respective countries in which certain subsidiaries operate.
The gross tax losses with expiry dates are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Expiry dates: within 1 year 17.9 17.7 after 5 years 1.6 2.0 no expiry date 53.0 57.0 72.5 76.7 At 31 December 2011, a deferred tax liability of 7.4m 2010: 6.3m relating to undistributed reserves of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures of 575.1m 2010: 504.1m has not been recognised because the Group controls whether the liability will be incurred and it is satisfied that it will not be incurred in the foreseeable future.
27 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m Trade payables 21.1 21.1 Amounts owed to associates 3.7 3.2 Other creditors including taxation and social security Social security and other taxes 4.6 5.0 Value added tax and similar sales taxes 12.4 11.5 Other creditors 16.1 8.9 Accruals 69.3 103.3 Deferred income 15.1 13.2 Rental and other deposits 3.7 3.1 Deposit on sale of land 4.4 Contingent consideration 7.8 146.0 181.5 Reclassification to provisions 19.3 146.0 162.2 Certain amounts previously included in the trade and other payables have now been represented as provisions.
As stated in note 24, a total provision of 19.3m included in trade and other payables as accruals as at 31 December 2010 has been represented.
The equivalent balance as at 31 December 2009 is 8.9m.
As explained in note 25, included in deferred income is an amount of 1.7m 2010: 1.7m relating to prepaid operating land lease income by CDLHT.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risks related to trade and other payables are disclosed in note 22.
126 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Dividends 2011 2010 2011 2010 pence pence m m Final ordinary dividend paid 7.92 24.8 Second interim dividend paid 4.17 12.9 Interim ordinary dividend paid 2.08 2.08 6.5 6.5 10.00 6.25 31.3 19.4 After 31 December 2011, the Directors declared the following final and special dividends, which have not been provided for: 2011 2010 2011 2010 pence pence m m Final ordinary dividend 10.42 7.92 33.1 24.8 Final special dividend 4.0 12.7 In respect of dividends paid in 2011 totalling 31.3m 2010: 19.4m, the Group offered shareholders the option of a scrip dividend.
This resulted in cash dividend payments in 2011 of 11.2m 2010: 4.1m.
The balance of 20.1m 2010: 15.3m has been credited to reserves upon issue of the related share capital.
The Group will again be offering shareholders the option of a scrip dividend for dividends to be paid in 2012.
29 Share capital Number of 30p shares allotted, called up and fully paid Balance at 1 January 2011 313,286,745 Issue of ordinary shares on exercise of share options 322,906 Issue of ordinary shares in lieu of dividends 3,953,479 Balance at 31 December 2011 317,563,130 All of the share capital is equity share capital.
Ordinary shares issued in lieu of dividends have been accounted for as a bonus issue of shares.
At the year end, options over 394,745 ordinary shares remain outstanding and are exercisable between now and 31 January 2017 at exercise prices between 1.54 and 5.20.
In addition, awards made under the LTIP up to 2,534,637 ordinary shares remain unvested and may potentially vest between 30 March 2012 and 28 November 2014.
During the year Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc issued invitations to UK employees under the Sharesave Scheme to enter into a five-year savings contract or a three-year savings contract with an option to purchase shares at an option price of 418p on expiry of the savings contract.
127 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Reserves Cash flow hedge reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow instruments related to the hedged transactions that have not yet occurred net of tax.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations net of tax.
Treasury share reserve An employee benefit trust established by the Group held 399,500 shares at 31 December 2011 2010: 400,952 to satisfy the vesting of awards under the LTIP.
During the year nil shares 2010: 400,952 were purchased by the trust.
Shares held by the trust are treated as treasury shares are deducted from equity and excluded from the calculations of earnings per share.
31 Acquisition and disposal Prior year acquisition Beijing Fortune Hotel Co Ltd On 15 November 2010, Beijing Fortune Hotel Co Ltd which owns and operates the Grand Millennium Hotel Beijing became a 70% owned subsidiary following the Group exercising an option to buy an additional 40% interest from Beijing Xiangjiang Xinli Real Estate Development Co. Ltd.
Consideration paid for the additional equity was RMB 189m 18.4m.
No further adjustment was made during 2011 to the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Disposal of subsidiary On 18 April 2011, the Group disposed of CDL Hotels Phils.
Corporation, a Philippines based company principally providing management services to Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation, owner of The Heritage Hotel in the Philippines.
The net liabilities and profit on disposal were as follows: 2011 m Current assets 1.5 Current liabilities 3.6 Net liabilities of operation disposed 2.1 Other net assets loans 0.4 Total net liabilities disposed attributable to the Group 1.7 Cash consideration US$1.00 Profit on disposal before taxation 1.7 128 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Financial commitments 2011 2010 m m a Capital commitments at the end of the financial year which are contracted but not provided for 4.6 1.7 The Groups share of the capital commitments of joint ventures and associates are shown in note 15 on page 104. b Total commitments under non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable by the Group as follows: less than one year 25.2 30.3 between one and five years 93.1 98.0 more than five years 300.8 289.2 419.1 417.5 Included in the above are the following commitments of the Group under non-cancellable operating lease rentals that relate to the fixed portion due to CDLHT over the remaining tenure of the initial 20-year lease term that commenced in July 2006 in respect of four REIT hotels excluding the Studio M Hotel, the initial 20-year lease term that commenced in May 2011 in respect of Studio M Hotel and the fixed rental for the remaining term of a five-year lease from July 2011 in respect of a conference centre.
The amounts due are as follows: 2011 2010 m m less than one year 15.8 13.5 between one and five years 63.2 53.1 more than five years 159.5 139.5 238.5 206.1 c The Group leases out its properties under operating leases.
The future minimum lease rentals receivable by the Group under non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2011 2010 m m less than one year 1.9 1.9 between one and five years 3.0 3.0 more than five years 3.8 5.8 8.7 10.7 During the year ended 31 December 2011, 5.4m was recognised as rental income in the income statement 2010: 5.3m and 0.5m 2010: 0.5m in respect of repairs and maintenance was recognised as an expense in the income statement relating to investment property.
33 Contingencies and subsequent events a In the course of its operations the Group is routinely exposed to potential liabilities for claims made by employees and contractual or tortious claims made by third parties.
No material losses are anticipated from such exposures.
There were no contingent liabilities or guarantees other than those arising in the ordinary course of business and on these no material losses are anticipated.
The Group has insurance cover up to certain limits for major risks on property and major claims in connection with legal liabilities arising in the course of its operations.
Otherwise the Group generally carries its own risk.
The Group believes that the accruals and provisions carried on the balance sheet are sufficient to cover these risks.
b There are no events subsequent to the balance sheet date which require adjustment to or disclosure within these consolidated financial statements.
129 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34 Related parties Identity of related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
All transactions with related parties were entered into in the normal course of business and at arms length.
The Group has a related party relationship with its joint ventures, associates and with its Directors and executive officers.
Transactions with ultimate holding company and other related companies The Group has a related party relationship with certain subsidiaries of Hong Leong Investment Holding Pte.
Ltd Hong Leong, which is the ultimate holding and controlling company of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc and holds 55% 2010: 53% of the Companys shares via City Developments Limited CDL, the intermediate holding company of the Group.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group had the following transactions with those subsidiaries.
Fees paid payable by the Group to Hong Leong Management Services Pte.
Ltd HLMS, a subsidiary of Hong Leong amounted to 1.0m 2010: 0.5m.
At 31 December 2011, 1.5m 2010: 0.5m of fees payable was outstanding.
The Group deposited certain surplus cash with Hong Leong Finance Limited, a subsidiary of Hong Leong, on normal commercial terms.
Interest income of 0.040m 2010: 0.008m was received during the period.
As at 31 December 2011, 17.9m 2010: 15.5m of cash was deposited with Hong Leong Finance Limited.
Fees paid payable by the Group to CDL were 1.3m 2010: 1.0m which included rentals paid for the Grand Shanghai restaurant and Kings Centre: property management fees for the Tanglin Shopping Centre in Singapore: and car parking, leasing commission and professional services.
In addition, 0.5m 2010: 1.6m of fees were paid to CDL Management Services Pte Ltd, a subsidiary of CDL in relation to the Glyndebourne luxury condominium development in Singapore and 0.7m in relation to professional services for sale of development land in Kuala Lumpur 2010: nil.
At 31 December 2011 nil 2010: nil of fees payable was outstanding.
Richfield Hospitality Inc RHI a company owned 85% by City e-Solutions Limited CES, a subsidiary of Hong Leong, and 15% by the Group, provided management services to the Group.
A total of 0.1m 2010: 0.2m was charged by RHI during the year and as at 31 December 2011, 0.2m 2010: 0.1m was due to RHI.
Fees for taxation services amounting to 0.01m 2010: 0.01m were charged by CDL Hotels USA Inc. a subsidiary of the Group, to RHI.
The Group provided a total of 0.02m 2010: 0.02m hotel management services to a joint venture company of HL Global Enterprises Limited, a subsidiary of Hong Leong.
As at 31 December 2011, nil 2010: 0.002m was due to the Group.
In addition, the Group also provided accounting and management services to CES and HLMS totalling 0.04m 2010: 0.05m.
The Group, through its wholly-owned subsidiary CDL Hotels Holdings Japan Limited acquired a land site in Ginza, Tokyo for a cost of 9.5bn 79.6m in order to construct a 325-room deluxe hotel.
In line with Groups stated intention of inviting other investors to participate in this investment, CDL was invited to participate in the investment taking into account CDLs well-established real estate development experience and knowledge of the Japanese market as well as to leverage upon the long-standing relationships of CDL and its parent company with Mitsui Fudosan Co. Ltd. CDLs investment in the property, apart from that held separately by the Group is held through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Citydev Venture Holdings Limited, which has invested in 60.1% of the paid-up share capital of CDL Hotels Japan Pte.
Ltd. the latter in turn has 49.9% interest held through preferred equity capital in Hong Leong Ginza TMK, the special purpose vehicle set up in Japan to hold the property.
CDLs effective interest in the property, excluding the interest held through the Group is 29.99%, whilst the Groups effective interest in the property is 70.01%.
Transactions with associates and joint-ventures In July 2006 the Group completed the sale of long leasehold interest in three of its Singapore hotels to CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT, an associate and comprising a REIT and a business trust.
These hotels were the Orchard Hotel including the connected shopping centre, and M Hotel which were both sold on 75-year leases and Copthorne Kings Hotel for the remaining 130 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34 Related parties continued 61 years of a 99-year lease.
CDLHT also acquired the Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel, a Group managed hotel from CDL under a 75 year lease.
All four hotels excluding the shopping centre were leased back to the Group for an initial term of 20 years, each renewable at the Groups option for an additional term of 20 years.
In May 2011 the Group completed the sale of the remaining term of a 99-year long leasehold interest commencing February 2007 in the Studio M Hotel Singapore to CDLHT.
The hotel was leased back for an initial term of 20 years, renewable at the Groups option for three consecutive terms totalling 50 years.
Under the terms of the master lease agreements for the four hotels acquired in 2006, for the Studio M hotel in May 2011, the Group is obliged to pay CDLHT an annual rental for the duration of the term initial and extended term of each lease agreement comprising the following: A fixed rent and a service charge for each hotel: and A variable rent computed based on the sum of 20% 30% for Studio M of each hotels revenue and 20% of each hotels gross operating profit for the prevailing financial year, less the sum of the fixed rent and the service charge.
The rents paid payable under the leases referred to above for the relevant year are as follows: Total Total 2011 2010 m m Copthorne Kings Hotel 4.8 4.2 Orchard Hotel 13.6 12.7 M Hotel 8.2 7.3 Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel 12.0 10.3 Studio M Hotel 3.6 42.2 34.5 In addition to the lease of the five hotels mentioned above, the Group also leased a conference centre from CDLHT at a fixed rent of 0.3m 2010: 0.2m.
This lease was for five years from July 2006 and has been renewed for a further five years.
A subsidiary of the Group, M&C REIT Management Limited acts as REIT Manager and Business Trust Manager with their fees having a performance-based element.
The REIT Manager is entitled to receive a base fee of 0.25% per annum of the value of the H-REIT deposited property as well as additional performance fee of 5% per annum of H-REITs net property income in the relevant financial year.
80% of the H-REIT Managers fees was paid in stapled securities for the first five years to July 2011.
Thereafter, the Managers fees shall be payable in the form of stapled securities and or cash as the H-REIT Manager may elect, and in such proportion as may be determined by the H-REIT Manager.
In addition acquisition fees are payable, 100% in stapled securities and or cash at a rate of 1.0% of the value of new properties deposited with H-REIT.
For the relevant year Managers fees paid in stapled securities totalled 4.6m 2010: 3.7m, acquisition fees paid in stapled units 0.8m 2010: nil, the balance payable in cash was 1.2m 2010: 1.0m of which 0.2m 2010: 0.2m is outstanding at 31 December 2011.
Acquisition fees of nil 2010: 1.0m were paid in cash.
Interest receivable of 0.12m 2010: 0.04m accrued in the year on the rent deposit paid to the REIT.
Ltd, a 100% subsidiary of the Group, in June and November 2011 provided shareholder loans totalling US$108.0m to FSCL, an associate.
The loan attracts interest of 2.75% per annum and interest of US$0.4m 0.25m was accrued for in the year.
Subsidiaries of FSCL provided a RMB115m 11.8m loan via a three-year entrustment loan agreement to Beijing Fortune Hotel Co Ltd, a 70.0% subsidiary of the Group.
The loan accrues interest at 7.54% per annum and interest of 0.2m was accrued in the year.
Ltd, a 100% subsidiary of the Group, provided a shareholder loan facility of 503m Thai Baht 10.3m 2010: 503m Thai Baht 10.8m to Fena Estate Company Limited Fena, its 50% owned joint venture.
At 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 all of this facility was fully drawn.
The loan attracts interest of 4.5% per annum 2010: 4.5% per annum and interest of 0.5m 2010: 0.6m was accrued for in the year.
This interest is rolled up into the carrying value of the loan.
The total loan outstanding, including rolled up interest, is 609.6m Thai Baht 12.5m 2010: 587m Thai Baht 12.6m.
131 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34 Related parties continued In addition, the Group has provided a further US$2.0m 1.3m 2010: US$2.0m 1.5m operator loan facility to Fena which was fully drawn down at 31 December 2011.
The loan attracts interest of 0.75% per annum 2010: 0.75% which is rolled up into the carrying value of the loan.
The carrying value of the loan outstanding, including rolled up interest, is US$2.050m 1.3m 2010: US$2.034m 1.3m.
Management fees were charged to Fena in respect of maintenance and other services at the Grand Millennium Sukhumvit Bangkok totalling 0.5m 2010: 0.4m of which 0.3m 2010: 0.3m is outstanding at 31 December 2011.
The Group provided hotel management services to Beijing Fortune: the Groups 30% owned joint venture up to 15 November 2010 when the Group acquired an additional 40% interest.
From this date, the management services are no longer deemed to be related party transactions.
A total of 0.5m was charged to Beijing Fortune during 2010.
The Group has a related party relationship with Mr Ali Al Zaabi, a minority shareholder of its operations in the Middle East.
Expenses of 0.2m 2010: 0.2m were charged to the Group in respect of Mr Al Zaabis remuneration and other expenses of which 0.1m 2010: nil was outstanding at 31 December 2011.
In addition 0.1m 2010: 0.2m of incentive management fees and sales and marketing expenses were charged to the Kingsgate Hotel Abu Dhabi which is owned by Mr Al Zaabi of which 0.3m 2010: 0.4m is outstanding at 31 December 2011.
Transactions with key management personnel The beneficial interest of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company was 0.073% 2010: 0.044%.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors and executive officers, and contributes to a post-employment defined contribution plan depending on the date of commencement of employment.
The defined contribution plan does not have a specified pension payable on retirement and benefits are determined by the extent to which the individuals fund can buy an annuity in the market at retirement.
Executive officers also participate in the Groups share option programme, LTIP and Sharesave schemes.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits 5.0 5.3 Other long-term benefits 0.1 0.1 Share-based payment 1.3 0.8 6.4 4.6 2011 2010 m m Directors 1.9 2.4 Executives 4.5 2.2 6.4 4.6 The Directors remuneration reported in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 62 focuses, so far as concerns pension benefits, on changes in accrued benefits rather than the income statement charge for individuals.
In the context of this analysis, the amount above reflects benefits paid.
132 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35 Significant investments The companies listed below are those which were part of the Group at 31 December 2011 and which, in the opinion of the Directors, significantly affected the Groups results and net assets during the year.
The Directors consider that those companies not listed are not significant in relation to the Group as a whole.
These companies operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated and are held indirectly unless stated otherwise.
Effective Group Country of Principal interest incorporation activity Anchorage-Lakefront Limited Partnership 100% USA Hotel owner Beijing Fortune Hotel Co Ltd 70% Peoples Republic of China Hotel owner and operator Bostonian Hotel Limited Partnership 100% USA Hotel owner CDL New York LLC 100% USA Hotel owner CDL Hotels Chelsea Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels Korea Ltd 100% Republic of Korea Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100% Malaysia Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels UK Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels USA, Inc 100% USA Hotel investment holding company CDL Investments New Zealand Limited 47% New Zealand Investment and property management company CDL West 45th Street LLC 100% USA Hotel owner Chicago Hotel Holdings, Inc 100% USA Hotel owner and operator City Hotels Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Hotel operator and investment holding company Copthorne Hotel Birmingham Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Gatwick Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Manchester Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Newcastle Limited 94% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Slough Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotels Limited 100% England and Wales Hotels investment holding company Copthorne Hotel Holdings Limited 100% England and Wales Hotels investment holding company Copthorne Orchid Hotel Singapore 100% Singapore Hotel owner and operator Pte Ltd Gateway Regal Holdings LLC 100% USA Hotel owner and operator Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation 66% Philippines Hotel owner and operator and investment holding company Harbour View Hotel Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Hotel operator Hong Leong Ginza TMK 70% Japan Property owner Hong Leong Hotel Development Limited 81% Taiwan Hotel owner and operator Hong Leong Hotels Pte Ltd 100% Cayman Islands Investment holding company Hospitality Group Limited 49% New Zealand Holding company Hospitality Holdings Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Investment holding company Kings Tanglin Shopping Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Property owner London Britannia Hotel Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator London Tara Hotel Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator M&C Crescent Interests, LLC 100% USA Property owner M&C Hotel Interest, Inc 100% USA Hotel management services company M&C Hotels France SAS 100% France Hotel owner M&C REIT Management Limited 100% Singapore REIT investment management services 133 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35 Significant investments continued Effective Group Country of Principal interest incorporation activity Millennium & Copthorne Hotels New 70% New Zealand Hotel investment holding company Zealand Limited Millennium & Copthorne International 100% Singapore Hotels and resorts management Limited Millennium & Copthorne Middle East 51% Hong Kong Hotel management service company Holdings Limited Quantum Limited 49% New Zealand Holding company Republic Hotels & Resorts Limited 100% Singapore Hotel operator and investment holding company Republic Iconic Hotel Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Hotel owner and operator RHM-88, LLC 100% USA Hotel owner and operator WHB Biltmore LLC 100% USA Hotel owner and operator Joint ventures New Unity Holdings Limited 50% British Virgin Islands Investment holding company Associates CDL Hospitality Trusts 35.2% Singapore See note below First Sponsor Capital Limited 39.3% British Virgin Islands Investment holding company Due to non-controlling interest shareholdings held within intermediary parent undertakings, the Groups effective shareholding in certain subsidiary undertakings in which it has control is less than 50%.
Note CDL Hospitality Trusts is a stapled group comprising CDL Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust H-REIT, a real estate investment trust, and CDL Hospitality Business Trust HBT, a business trust.
H-REIT has an investment strategy of investing, directly or indirectly, in a diversified portfolio of income-producing real estate which is primarily used for hospitality and or hospitality-related purposes, whether wholly or partially, and real-estate related assets in relation to the foregoing.
HBT is a business trust which is dormant.
It exists primarily as a master lessee of last resort and will become active if H-REIT is unable to appoint a master lessee for any of the hotels in its portfolio at the expiry of the relevant master lease agreement or for a newly-acquired hotel.
HBT may also become active if it undertakes certain hospitality and hospitality-related development projects, acquisitions and investments which may not be suitable for H-REIT.
134 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Consolidated accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2011
