Financial statements Misys Leading technology and innovation [JOZ UVOTOUT LUX ZNK 4OY Y VRI.
XU[V Independent auditors report to the members of Misys plc Opinion on financial statements In our opinion, the Group financial statements: Introduction We have audited the Group financial statements of Misys plc s give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as for the year ended 31 May 2011 which comprise the at 31 May 2011 and of its profit and cash ows for the year consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement then ended: of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of s have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as cash ows, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated adopted by the European Union: and statement of changes in equity, the accounting policies and the s have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Opinion on other matter prescribed by the European Union.
Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors for the financial year for which the Group financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Statement set out on page 74, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being Matters on which we are required to report by exception satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following: is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards you if, in our opinion: require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
s certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and s we have not received all the information and explanations only for the Companys members as a body in accordance we require for our audit.
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it s the Directors statement, set out on page 74, in relation may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent to going concern: in writing.
s the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts s certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give on Directors remuneration.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Other matter error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting We have reported separately on the parent Company financial policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and statements of Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2011 and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made is described as having been audited.
by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonGiles Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor financial information in the annual report to identify material for and on behalf of  LLP inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors become aware of any apparent material misstatements or London inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
