Financial statements Misys Leading technology and innovation UTYUROJGZKJ HGRGTIK YNKKZ GY GZ 4G All gures in millions Note 2011 2010 Non current assets Goodwill 16 231.1 315.5 Other intangible assets 17 275.9 224.4 Property, plant and equipment 18 14.5 30.8 Investments 19 5.5 7.1 Trade and other receivables 20 8.7 1.6 Derivative financial instruments 23 2.0 4.9 Deferred tax assets 25 35.6 19.5 573.3 603.8 Current assets Inventories 2.1 Trade and other receivables 20 134.4 285.7 Derivative financial instruments 23 1.0 1.1 Current tax asset 5.0 Cash and cash equivalents 15 56.8 120.3 192.2 414.2 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 21 88.8 142.9 Loans and overdrafts 22 17.9 46.3 Derivative financial instruments 23 1.6 0.7 Current tax liabilities 24.3 31.2 Provisions 24 8.0 7.7 Deferred income 26 105.3 166.5 245.9 395.3 Net current liabilities assets 53.7 18.9 Total assets less current liabilities 519.6 622.7 Non current liabilities Trade and other payables 21 3.9 5.9 Loans and overdrafts 22 133.1 73.1 Derivative financial instruments 23 2.3 2.0 Deferred tax liabilities 25 27.6 11.1 Provisions 24 11.3 18.0 Deferred income 26 5.2 6.6 Retirement benefit obligations 27 6.2 4.3 189.6 121.0 Net assets 330.0 501.7 Equity Share capital 4.3 5.9 Share premium account 12.7 151.9 Capital redemption reserve 147.7 0.3 Other reserves 32 165.3 193.8 Shareholders' funds 330.0 351.9 Non controlling interest 149.8 Total equity 330.0 501.7 Approved by the Board Mike Lawrie 28 July 2011 78 Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Misys Leading technology and innovation UTYUROJGZKJ YZGZKSKTZ UL INGTMKY OT KW[OZ LUX ZNK KGX KTJKJ 4G Attributable Capital to the Non Share Share redemption Other owners of controlling Total All gures in millions capital premium reserve reserves the parent interest equity At 1 June 2010 5.9 151.9 0.3 193.8 351.9 149.8 501.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 645.9 645.9 9.4 636.5 Shares issued in the year to purchase Sophis 0.1 5.5 5.6 5.6 Transactions with owners Share options settled from own shares 1.0 6.1 7.1 7.1 Business disposed 39.9 39.9 140.4 180.3 Convertible debt equity component 16.1 16.1 16.1 Shares repurchased for cancellation 1.7 1.7 525.0 525.0 525.0 B share scheme shares issued 145.7 145.7 B share scheme redemption of B shares 111.8 111.8 105.6 105.6 105.6 B share scheme dividends paid 33.9 33.9 33.9 33.9 33.9 Expenses incurred on transactions with owners 5.5 5.5 5.5 Share-based payments 9.7 9.7 9.7 Deferred tax on share-based payments 3.6 3.6 3.6 At 31 May 2011 4.3 12.7 147.7 165.3 330.0 330.0 No ordinary shares were purchased by the Misys Employee Share Trust during the current or preceding year.
for the year ended 31 May 2010 Attributable Capital to the Non Share Share redemption Other owners of controlling Total All gures in millions capital premium reserve reserves the parent interest equity At 1 June 2009 5.9 151.9 0.3 85.2 243.3 92.5 335.8 Total comprehensive income for the year 82.1 82.1 40.7 122.8 Transactions with owners Shares options settled from own shares 2.9 2.9 2.9 Exercise of Allscripts share options 0.8 0.8 Conversion of Allscripts 3.5% senior convertible debentures 3.5 3.5 5.7 9.2 Share-based payments 12.9 12.9 5.4 18.3 Deferred tax on share-based payments 7.2 7.2 4.7 11.9 At 31 May 2010 5.9 151.9 0.3 193.8 351.9 149.8 501.7 Annual Report 2011 79 Financial statements Misys Leading technology and innovation IIU[TZOTM VUROIOKY The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in IAS 27 revised requires the effects of all transactions with accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations no change in control and these transactions will no longer Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 species the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value and a gain or The Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation loss is recognised in profit or loss.
to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting The following IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations and Standards Board.
amendments have been adopted by the Group but none had any material impact on the Group results or financial position: Going concern As a result of the funding activities undertaken the Group Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009 and 2010 has improved both its short-term and medium-term liquidity As required by the amendments to IAS 21 The effects of position and diversied its funding sources through the changes in foreign exchange rates the Group has opted issuance of a convertible bond.
Interest cover and debt to to recycle cumulative translation reserves, arising from EBITDA ratios are comfortably within the targets set by the differences on quasi-equity long-term intra-group loans, Board and banking covenants.
The Groups forecasts and on loss of control of subsidiaries projections, taking account of reasonable potential variations Amendment to IAS 32 Classication of right issues in trading performance, show that the Group should be able Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets to operate within the level of its current nancing for the Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition foreseeable future.
and measurement, on eligible hedged items Amendment to IFRS 2, Share based payments After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions expectation that the Group has adequate resources to effective 1 January 2010 continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory Changes in accounting policy and disclosures for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after The Group has adopted the following new and amended IASs 1 January 2011 or later periods but the Group has not early and IFRSs as of 1 June 2010: adopted them: IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, and consequential IFRS 9 Financial instruments not yet endorsed by the EU amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements not yet statements, IAS 28, Investments in associates, and IAS 31, endorsed by the EU Interests in joint ventures, are effective prospectively to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements not yet endorsed by the EU business combinations for which the acquisition date is on IFRS 12 Disclosure of involvement with other entities or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period not yet endorsed by the EU beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement not yet endorsed by the EU The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures method to business combinations but with some significant IAS 27 further revision Separate financial statements changes compared with IFRS 3.
For example, all payments not yet endorsed by the EU to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the IAS 28 further revision Investment in associates and joint acquisition date, with contingent payments classied as debt ventures not yet endorsed by the EU subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement There is a choice on an  basis to IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at instruments fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related costs are The Group has undertaken an initial review of the impact of expensed.
these new standards, interpretations and amendments and has concluded that they are unlikely to be material.
The revised standard was applied to the acquisition of the controlling interest in Sophis Management GP Luxembourg Sarl and Sophis Holding GP Luxembourg Sarl together Sophis on 28 February 2011.
Acquisition-related costs of 7.7m have been expensed in the consolidated income statement, which previously would have been included in the consideration for the business combination.
See note 16 for further details of the business combination that occurred in 2011.
80 Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Misys Leading technology and innovation A summary of the Groups accounting policies is given below.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting convention Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered as an The consolidated financial information has been prepared impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting under the historical cost convention, except for certain policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary items which are measured at fair value, as disclosed in the to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless Critical accounting estimates and judgements otherwise stated.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including Basis of consolidation expectation of future events that are believed to be reasonable The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial under the circumstances.
Due to inherent uncertainty involved statements of Misys plc the Company and its subsidiary in making estimates and assumptions, actual outcomes could undertakings.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and differ from those assumptions and estimates.
The critical contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their judgements that have been made in arriving at the amounts fair value at the date of acquisition.
recognised in the Groups financial statements and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to causing a material adjustment to the carrying values of assets account for business combinations.
The consideration and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity Revenue recognition interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred The recognition of Initial Licence Fees is dependent upon includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from there being no significant vendor obligations outstanding.
Acquisition-related Management exercises judgement in assessing whether such costs are expensed as incurred.
Identiable assets acquired obligations are significant and if necessary the value of the and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business revenue to be deferred.
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the The revenue and profit of xed price global services contracts Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree is recognised on a percentage of completion basis when the either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
Management proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
exercises judgement in determining whether a contracts outcome can be estimated reliably.
Management also makes The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any some estimates in the calculation of future contract costs, fair non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date values of contracts, the value of discounts given, the value of fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over upgrade clauses in contracts which are used in determining the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets the value of amounts recoverable on contracts and timing of acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair revenue recognition.
Estimates are continually revised based value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of on changes in the facts relating to each contract.
a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
Prior to the adoption of Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets IFRS, goodwill arising on acquisition was taken to reserves in Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and other accordance with UK GAAP.
intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period may not be recoverable.
An impairment review requires an are included in the financial statements from the date estimate to be made of the value in use or the fair value less of acquisition.
Subsidiary undertakings disposed of are costs to sell as appropriate.
The value in use calculation included in the financial statements up to the date of includes estimates about the future financial performance of disposal.
Accordingly, the consolidated income statement, the cash generating units, including managements estimates the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and of long-term operating margins and long-term growth rates.
the consolidated statement of cash ow include the results and cash ows for the period of ownership.
Capitalisation of development costs Expenditure on developed software is capitalised when the Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the Group is able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical power to govern the financial and operating policies generally feasibility of the resulting asset: the ability and intention to accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the complete the development and use or sell it: how the asset voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights will generate probable future economic benets: and the ability that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the asset when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Management estimates the future sales and long-term operating margins of the asset.
Annual Report 2011 81 Financial statements Misys Leading technology and innovation IIU[TZOTM VUROIOKY IUTZOT[KJ Onerous property contracts Revenue from global services, such as implementation, training Property provisions require an estimate to be made of the and consultancy, is recognised as the services are performed.
net present value of the future costs of vacant and sublet In certain circumstances, the percentage of completion properties.
The calculation includes estimates of future cost method is used to determine the degree of completion of involved, including managements estimates of the long-term a contract.
This involves a comparison of the costs incurred letting potential of the properties.
on the contract to date with the total expected costs of the contract.
Losses on contracts are recognised as soon Taxation as a loss is foreseen by reference to the estimated costs The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous of completion.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in determining the worldwide provision for income Initial licence fees on sales of bespoke or heavily customised taxes.
Certain transactions require the use of estimates and software, together with revenue from the associated judgements to determine the financial effect where the ultimate professional services contract, are recognised on a percentage tax determination is uncertain.
When the final outcome of such of completion basis over the period from the commencement matters is different, or expected to be different, from previous of performance on the contract to customer acceptance.
estimates, such differences will impact income tax in the period in which the determination is made.
Maintenance fees are recognised rateably over the period of the contract.
Revenue from Electronic Data Interchange The Group recognises deferred tax assets on temporary EDI and remote processing services transaction processing differences where it is probable that future profits will be is recognised as the services are performed.
available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Where the future results differ from expectations, such Share incentive schemes differences will impact the deferred tax asset recognised The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based in the period in which the determination is made.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised Segmental reporting as an expense.
The Groups segmental analysis is by business sector which reects the basis on which operations are reported to the The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The business sectors are determined by reference to the fair value of the options dened by distinctly separate product offerings or markets.
granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
attributable to a segment as well as those that can be Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions allocated on a reasonable basis.
about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received At each balance sheet date, a revised estimate is made of the or receivable from clients for goods and services provided number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
by the Group, net of discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is If the revised estimate differs from the original estimate, the recognised when a valid contract exists, delivery to a customer charge to the income statement is adjusted over the remaining has occurred with no significant vendor obligations remaining vesting period of the options.
and where the collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of Where these circumstances exist but no invoice to the the grant itself and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled customer has been raised, under the terms of the contracts transaction.
revenue is recognised as normal but the corresponding receivable is shown as accrued income on the balance sheet.
Pensions The Group operates a number of dened contribution pension Initial licence fees ILF are the revenue generated when Misys schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The costs of sells the right to use a software product, including significant these pension schemes are charged to the income statement upgrades, and when a fee is payable for a significant variation as incurred.
In addition, the Group has a closed funded dened of an existing product.
ILF from sales of standard, unmodied benefit pension scheme in the UK, as well as a number of software are recognised when a valid contract exists, delivery other smaller dened benefit arrangements outside the UK.
to a customer has occurred with no significant vendor obligations remaining and where the collection of the resulting The remaining active members of the closed UK dened receivable is considered probable.
In instances where a benefit scheme now contribute to a dened contribution significant vendor obligation exists, revenue recognition is section of the scheme and do not accrue further benets delayed until the obligation has been satisfied.
No revenue is under the dened benefit scheme.
Full independent actuarial recognised for multiple deliveries or multiple element products valuations are carried out on a regular basis and updated to if an element of the contract remains undelivered and is each balance sheet date.
The assets of the schemes are held essential to the functionality of the elements already delivered.
separately from those of the Group.
Licence and installation fees from sales of standard software Pension scheme assets are measured using bid market values.
sold on an Application Service Provider ASP model are recognised over the expected life of the contract.
82 Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Misys Leading technology and innovation Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on statement except when the tax relates to items charged a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also to the liability.
The pension scheme surplus to the extent that recognised in equity.
it is recoverable or deficit is recognised in full on the balance sheet.
Any current or past service cost is recognised in the Foreign currencies income statement.
The net of the expected increase in the Items included in the financial statements of Group companies present value of the schemes liabilities, and the Groups are measured using the currency of the primary economic long-term expected return on its schemes assets, are included environment in which each entity operates their functional in the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling.
Any difference arising from experience or assumption changes and differences between the expected return on assets Each subsidiary translates foreign currency transactions into and those actually achieved are charged or credited to its own functional currency at rates ruling at the date of each the statement of comprehensive income and expense transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities as they arise.
are retranslated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date and currency translation differences are recognised in the income Leases statement.
Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied translated to sterling at the average exchange rate for the as operating leases.
Assets and liabilities of overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases is date.
The currency translation differences arising on both capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of cost or present elements are recognised in the translation reserve.
value of the minimum lease payments and is depreciated over its useful life.
The capital elements of future obligations under Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency borrowings leases are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
used to finance an equity investment in an overseas operation are offset in reserves against the exchange differences arising Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges on the retranslation of the net investment, up to the level of and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a the investment.
The exchange differences on any ineffective constant rate of return on the remaining balance of the liability.
portion are recognised in the income statement.
Cumulative translation reserves are recycled to the income statement on Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income loss of control of subsidiaries.
on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition Taxation of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the Taxation comprises the amount chargeable on the profits for foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
the period, together with deferred taxation.
Deferred taxation is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of all When a foreign operation is disposed of, the cumulative temporary differences that have originated but not reversed translation differences that relate to it, including changes to any at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have long-term intra-Group borrowing, are removed from equity and occurred at that date that may result in an obligation to pay recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is The Group hedges its exposure to certain foreign exchange probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which risks using derivatives and foreign currency borrowings.
the underlying temporary differences can be deducted or where there are deferred tax liabilities against which the assets Details of the accounting policies in respect of these items can be recovered.
are given in the derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting section.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the Business combinations related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition is settled based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identiable enacted at the balance sheet date.
assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset.
It is not each balance sheet date and are reduced to the extent that amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually and it is no longer probable that sufficient profits will be available.
whenever there is a potential indicator of impairment.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is statement and is not subsequently reversed.
probable that future profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Annual Report 2011 83 Financial statements Misys Leading technology and innovation IIU[TZOTM VUROIOKY IUTZOT[KJ On acquisition, specic intangible assets are identied and Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over licences that do not form an integral part of related hardware, their estimated useful lives.
These include such items as brand are capitalised at cost and amortised over their useful names, customer relationships and complete technology, economic lives.
Intangible assets acquired through a business to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised capitalisation of these assets and related amortisation charges on a systematic basis that reects the pattern of benets are based on judgments about the value and economic life expected over their useful economic lives.
If the pattern of of such items.
These economic lives for intangible assets future benets cannot be determined reliably, the intangible are estimated at between four and fifteen years for acquisition assets are amortised on a straight line basis.
On the disposal of a previously acquired subsidiary, the Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows: attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination Acquired intangibles 4-15 years of the gain or loss on disposal.
Developed software 3-7 years Third party software 3-7 years Transaction costs Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less Contingent consideration accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase Where part or the entire amount of purchase consideration price of the asset and the cost attributable to bringing the asset is contingent on future events, it is classied as debt to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is and recognised at fair value at acquisition date.
This is calculated on a straight line basis so as to write off the cost, subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
less estimated residual value of each asset, over its expected useful life.
Discontinued operations and assets held for sale Where the Group expects to recover the carrying amount of a The residual values and useful economic lives of property, plant group of assets through a sale transaction rather than through and equipment are reviewed annually.
The useful lives by major continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable at the class of asset applied from the date of purchase are: balance sheet date, the assets are classied as held for sale and measured at lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation or amortisation is charged in respect of non 5-15 years or the period of current assets classied as held for sale.
Leasehold improvements the lease if shorter Computer and other equipment 4-10 years If the group of assets constitutes a separate major line of business, it is classied as a discontinued operation.
Impairment of assets Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are Other intangible assets and research and development reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in expenditure circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not Research expenditure, including the cost of in-house software be recoverable and at each reporting date.
research, is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Goodwill and developed software not yet brought into use Expenditure on developed software is capitalised when the are reviewed for impairment annually.
An impairment loss Group is able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying feasibility of the resulting asset: the ability and intention to amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable complete the development and use or sell it: how the asset amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell will generate probable future economic benets: and the ability and its value in use.
to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the asset during its development.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable Development costs which do not meet these criteria are cash ows cash generating units.
recognised in the income statement as incurred and are not subsequently capitalised.
An asset is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benets are expected from its future use or disposal.
Capitalised expenditure on developed software is amortised over its useful economic life in line with expected future Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is economic benets, once the related software product is included in the income statement in the year the asset is available for use.
