Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 1.
General information events that are believed to be reasonable The results of subsidiaries acquired during the Mitchells & Butlers plc is a company under the circumstances.
Actual results may year are included in the consolidated income incorporated in the United Kingdom under differ from these estimates.
The Groups statement from the date of acquisition.
critical accounting judgements and estimates are in respect of property valuations, asset Going concern The consolidated financial statements are impairments, assets held for sale, pensions The Directors have, at the time of approving presented in pounds sterling rounded to the and taxation.
Details of these judgements the financial statements, a reasonable nearest million, being the functional currency and estimates are set out in the relevant expectation that the Company and the of the primary economic environment in which accounting policy and detailed notes to the Group have adequate resources to continue the parent and most subsidiaries operate.
financial statements as set out below: in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going Mitchells & Butlers plc, along with its property valuations see accounting concern basis of accounting in preparing the subsidiaries, the Group is required to policy on property, plant and equipment financial statements, refer to note 31. prepare its consolidated financial statements and note 13 : in accordance with International Financial asset impairments see accounting policy Business combinations Reporting Standards as adopted by the on property, plant and equipment : Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are European Union IFRS and in accordance pensions see accounting policy and accounted for using the acquisition method.
with the Companies Act 2006. note 7 : and The consideration for each acquisition is taxation see accounting policy, and measured at the aggregate of the fair values The Group revalues the majority of its freehold notes 10 and 20. of assets given and liabilities incurred or and long leasehold properties to fair value, for assumed by the Group in exchange for control accounting purposes, which it reviews at least Restatements of the acquiree.
Short leasehold properties, fixtures The pension liability for the period ended recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
and fittings are held at cost, less depreciation 25 September 2010 included a net amount and impairment provisions, which is also of 13m in respect of the irrecoverable The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities considered by the Group to be a reasonable element of the potential future pension and contingent liabilities that meet the approximation to their fair value.
Non-current surplus following the application of IFRIC 14. conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 assets held for sale are held at their carrying On 12 March 2011 the defined benefit are recognised at their fair value at the value in accordance with the Groups policy scheme was closed to future accrual.
acquisition date, except that: or their fair value less costs to sell where this Following the closure, the Company is lower.
The Groups policy is to account for reconsidered the appropriate accounting deferred tax assets or liabilities and land held under both long and short leasehold for its funding obligations under IFRIC 14. liabilities or assets related to employee contracts as operating leases, since it has no The accounting at 25 September 2010 for benefit arrangements are recognised expectation that title will pass on expiry of the this has been restated which has the impact and measured in accordance with IAS 12 lease contracts.
of reducing the pension liability by 56m, Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee reducing the deferred tax asset by 43m Benefits respectively: The Groups accounting policies have been and increasing brought forward retained liabilities or equity instruments related applied consistently.
earnings through an increase in other to the replacement by the Group of an comprehensive income by the net amount acquirees share-based payment awards Basis of preparation of 13m.
Further details of this restatement are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 The Groups accounting reference date is are summarised in note 7.
The Group draws up its assets or disposal groups that are financial statements to the Saturday directly Trade and other receivables and trade classified as held for sale in accordance with before or following the accounting reference and other payables have been restated by IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale date, as permitted by Section 390 3 of the 31m 2010 32m to reflect the collateral and Discontinued Operations are measured Companies Act 2006. relating to the swap provider in the in accordance with that Standard.
There is no impact Critical accounting judgements on the income statement, this has been If the initial accounting for a business and estimates disclosed in notes 15 and 17 respectively.
combination is incomplete by the end of the The preparation of the consolidated financial reporting period in which the combination statements requires management to make Basis of consolidation occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts judgements, estimates and assumptions in the The consolidated financial statements for the items for which the accounting is application of accounting policies that affect incorporate the financial statements of incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are reported amounts of assets and liabilities, Mitchells & Butlers plc the Company adjusted during the measurement period income and expense.
and entities controlled by the Company see below, or additional assets or liabilities its subsidiaries.
The financial statements are recognised, to reflect new information The following are the critical judgements and of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same obtained about facts and circumstances that estimates that the Directors have made in the financial reporting period as the Company.
existed as of the acquisition date that, if process of applying the Groups accounting Where necessary, adjustments are made to known, would have affected the amounts policies and that have the most significant the financial statements of subsidiaries to recognised as of the date.
effect on the amounts recognised in the bring their accounting policies into line with financial statements.
Estimates and those used by the Group.
Inter-company The measurement period is the period from judgements are continually evaluated and transactions, balances and unrealised gains the date of acquisition to the date the Group are based on historical experience and other and losses on transactions between Group obtains complete information about facts factors including expectations of future companies are eliminated on consolidation.
and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 41 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 1.
General information continued levels and the property market.
The Directors The carrying values of property, plant and Intangible assets believe that their estimates, which are based equipment which are not revalued to fair i Goodwill on the current state of the UK property market value are reviewed on an outlet Goodwill arising in respect of acquisitions, market, are appropriate.
Surpluses which basis for impairment if events or changes being the excess of the purchase arise from the revaluation exercise are in circumstances indicate that the carrying consideration over the fair value attributed to included within other comprehensive income amount may not be recoverable.
An the separately identifiable assets, liabilities and in the revaluation reserve unless they are impairment loss is recognised whenever contingent liabilities acquired, is stated at cost reversing a revaluation adjustment which has the carrying amount of an outlet exceeds less any impairment in value.
Goodwill is not been recognised in the income statement its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amortised, but is reviewed for impairment previously: in which case an amount equal to amount is the higher of an outlets fair annually or more frequently if events or a maximum of that recognised in the income value less costs to sell and value in use.
changes in circumstances indicate that statement previously is recognised in income.
In determining the value in use of an outlet, the carrying value may be impaired.
The Where the revaluation exercise gives rise to the Group is required to make various impairment review requires management a deficit, this is reflected directly within the judgements regarding the outlets projected to undertake certain judgements, including income statement, unless it is reversing a cash flows and the appropriate discount rate estimating the recoverable value of the previous revaluation surplus against the to apply to these.
These judgements include business to which the goodwill relates, based same asset: in which case an amount equal estimating the future growth rate and on either the fair value less costs to sell or the to a maximum of the revaluation surplus is profitability of the outlet.
value in use, in order to reach a conclusion as recognised within other comprehensive to whether it deems the goodwill to be income in the revaluation reserve.
Where an impairment loss subsequently recoverable.
Value in use estimates are based reverses, the carrying amount of the asset on managements projection of the cash flows Depreciation is charged to the income is increased to the revised estimate of its that the business will generate, after applying statement on a straight line basis over the recoverable amount, but so that the a suitable discount rate.
Fair value less costs to estimated useful lives of items of property, increased carrying amount does not exceed sell is based on managements assessment of plant and equipment.
Freehold land is not the carrying amount that would have been the net proceeds which could be generated depreciated.
Freehold and long leasehold determined had no impairment loss been through disposing of the business to which properties are depreciated so that the recognised for the asset in prior years.
Any impairment is difference between their carrying value and A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised recognised immediately in the income estimated residual value is written off over as income immediately.
An impairment statement and is not subsequently reversed.
50 years from the date of acquisition.
The reversal is only recognised where there is a On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable residual value of freehold and long leasehold change in the estimates used to determine amount of goodwill is included in the properties is reviewed at least annually and recoverable amounts, not where it results determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
no depreciation is charged where the residual from the passage of time.
value is estimated to be equal to or exceed the Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to carrying value, so that the depreciation charge Assets held for sale and disposal groups 30 September 1998 was eliminated against would be immaterial.
Leasehold properties are When the value of an asset or group of assets reserves.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business depreciated over the unexpired term of the will be recovered through a sale transaction Combinations, such goodwill remains lease where this is less than 50 years.
The cost rather than continuing use, the assets are eliminated against reserves and is not included less residual value based on prices prevailing reclassified as assets held for sale, or as a in determining any subsequent profit or loss at the balance sheet date of plant, machinery, disposal group, where the assets are to be on disposal.
fixtures and fittings and equipment is spread sold as a group in a single transaction.
by equal instalments over the estimated life of This condition is met when the sale is ii Computer software the relevant assets, namely: highly probable and the asset is available Computer software and associated for immediate sale in its present condition.
Information technology equipment 3-7 years development costs, which are not an The Board of Directors must be committed to Vehicles 4-5 years integral part of a related item of hardware, the sale and completion should be expected Fixtures and fittings 3-20 years are capitalised as an intangible asset and within one year from the date of classification.
amortised on a straight line basis over their Assets held for sale and disposal groups are Assets held under finance leases are useful life.
The period of amortisation ranges valued at the lower of book value and fair depreciated over their expected lives on between three and ten years with the majority value less costs to sell and are no longer the same basis as owned assets or, where being five years.
Where disposing of revalued shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
assets, these are revalued using the The Groups policy is to account for land Property, plant and equipment Companys existing policies for revaluation held under both long and short leasehold The Group revalues the majority of its freehold before classifying as held for sale.
A contracts as operating leases, since it has and long leasehold properties to fair value, judgement is made in relation to the fair no expectation that title will pass on expiry for accounting purposes.
Short leasehold value attributed to assets held for sale.
properties, fixtures and fittings are held at deemed cost less depreciation and impairment Leases Expected useful lives and residual values are provisions.
Non-current assets held for sale i Operating leases reviewed each year and adjusted if appropriate.
are held at their carrying value in accordance Leases in which substantially all the risks with the Groups policy or their fair value less and rewards of ownership are retained by Profits and losses on disposal of property, costs to sell where this is lower.
The the lessor are classified as operating leases.
plant and equipment are calculated as the revaluation is a significant accounting Payments made under operating leases and difference between the net sales proceeds judgement.
Key accounting estimates are sub-leases are charged to the income and the carrying amount of the asset at the made in relation to the projected trading statement on a straight line basis over the date of disposal.
Lease incentives are recognised as a liability and a subsequent reduction in the rental expense over the lease term on a straight line basis.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Premiums paid on acquiring a new lease are Financial assets are classified into the following Changes in the carrying amount of the spread on a straight line basis over the lease specified categories: financial assets at fair allowance account are recognised in profit term.
Such premiums are classified in the value through profit or loss FVTPL, held-toor loss.
balance sheet as current or non-current maturity investments, available-for-sale prepayments, with the current portion being AFS financial assets and loans and When an AFS financial asset is considered the element which relates to the following receivables.
The classification depends on the to be impaired, cumulative gains or financial period.
nature and purpose of the financial assets and losses previously recognised in other is determined at the time of initial recognition.
comprehensive income are reclassified to The Groups policy is to account for land profit or loss in the period.
held under both long and short leasehold ii Impairment of financial assets contracts as operating leases, since it has Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, With the exception of AFS equity instruments, no expectation that title will pass on expiry are assessed for indicators of impairment at if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the of the lease contracts.
Financial assets are impairment loss decreases and the decrease impaired where there is objective evidence can be related objectively to an event The Group is party to a small number of leases that, as a result of one or more events that occurring after the impairment was on properties which are no longer trading occurred after the initial recognition of the recognised, the previously recognised profitably.
Whilst every effort is made to financial asset, the estimated future cash impairment loss is reversed through profit sublet these properties, it is not always flows of the investment have been affected.
or loss to the extent that the carrying possible.
Where a lease is onerous to the amount of the investment at the date the Group a provision is established based on the For listed and unlisted equity investments impairment is reversed does not exceed Directors best estimate of the payments up classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged what the amortised cost would have been until the point it is judged the lease will no decline in the fair value of the security below had the impairment not been recognised.
its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
In respect of AFS equity securities, impairment ii Finance leases losses previously recognised in profit or loss Leases in which the Group assumes For all other financial assets, including are not reversed through profit or loss.
substantially all the risks and rewards of redeemable notes classified as AFS and Any increase in fair value subsequent to ownership are classified as finance leases.
finance lease receivables, objective an impairment loss is recognised in other Property, plant and equipment acquired by evidence of impairment could include: comprehensive income.
way of finance lease are capitalised at the inception of the lease at an amount equal to significant financial difficulty of the issuer iii Derecognition of financial assets the lower of their fair value and the present or counterparty: or and liabilities value of the minimum lease payments.
The default or delinquency in interest or The Group derecognises a financial asset only corresponding liability to the lessor is included principal payments: or when the contractual rights to the cash flows in the balance sheet as a finance lease it becoming probable that the borrower from the asset expire, or when it transfers the obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned will enter bankruptcy or financial financial asset and substantially all the risks between the finance lease obligation and re-organisation.
and rewards of ownership of the asset to finance charges in the income statement so another entity.
If the Group neither transfers as to achieve a constant rate of interest on For certain categories of financial asset, such nor retains substantially all the risks and the remaining balance of the obligation.
as trade receivables, assets that are assessed rewards of ownership and continues to not to be impaired individually are, in addition, control the transferred asset, the Group Inventories assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
recognises its retained interest in the asset Inventories are stated at the lower of cost Objective evidence of impairment for a and an associated liability for amounts it may and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated portfolio of receivables could include the have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially using the weighted average method.
Groups past experience of collecting all the risks and rewards of ownership of a Work in progress is in respect of property payments, an increase in the number of transferred financial asset, the Group development activities and includes the delayed payments in the portfolio past the continues to recognise the financial asset and direct costs of the developments and average credit period of 60 days, as well as also recognises a collateralised borrowing for associated professional fees.
observable changes in national or local the proceeds received.
economic conditions that correlate with Financial instruments default on receivables.
iv Trade and other receivables Financial assets and financial liabilities are Trade and other receivables are recognised recognised in the Groups balance sheet For financial assets carried at amortised and carried at original cost less an allowance when the Group becomes a party to the cost, the amount of the impairment is the for any uncollectable amounts.
contractual provisions of the instrument.
differences between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated v Cash and cash equivalents i Financial assets future cash flows, discounted at the financial Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash All financial assets are recognised and assets original effective interest rate.
at bank and in hand and other short-term derecognised on a trade date where the highly liquid deposits with an original purchase or sale of a financial asset is under The carrying amount of the financial asset is maturity at acquisition of three months a contract whose terms require delivery of reduced by the impairment loss directly for or less.
Cash held on deposit with an the financial asset within the timeframe all financial assets with the exception of trade original maturity at acquisition of more than established by the market concerned, and receivables, where the carrying amount is three months is disclosed as current asset are initially measured at fair value, plus reduced through the use of an allowance investments.
For the purposes of the cash transaction costs, except for those financial account.
When a trade receivable is flow statement, cash and cash equivalents assets classified as at fair value through considered uncollectable, it is written off consist of cash and cash equivalents as profit or loss, which are initially measured against the allowance account.
Subsequent defined above, net of bank overdrafts at fair value.
recoveries of amounts previously written off that are repayable on demand and that are are credited against the allowance account.
integral to the Groups cash management.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 43 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 1.
General information continued Hedge accounting is discontinued when Operating profit vi Trade and other payables the hedging instrument expires or is sold, Operating profit is stated after charging Trade and other payables are recognised at terminated, or no longer qualifies for hedge restructuring costs and movements in original cost.
At that point, the cumulative valuation of the property portfolio but before gain or loss in equity remains in equity and is investment income and finance costs.
vii Borrowings recognised in accordance with the above Borrowings, which include the Groups policy when the transaction affects profit or Tax secured loan notes, are stated initially at fair loss.
If the hedged transaction is no longer The income tax expense represents both the value normally, the amount of the proceeds, expected to occur, the cumulative gain or income tax payable, based on profits for the net of issue costs.
Thereafter they are stated loss recognised in equity is recognised in the year, and deferred tax and is calculated using at amortised cost using an effective interest income statement immediately.
tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at basis.
Finance costs, which are the difference the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs between the net proceeds and the total x Equity instruments from net profit as reported in the income amount of payments to be made in respect of An equity instrument is any contract that statement because it excludes items of income the instruments, are allocated over the term of evidences a residual interest in the assets of or expense which are not taxable.
Income tax the debt using the effective interest method.
an entity after deducting all liabilities.
Equity is recognised in the income statement except instruments issued by the Company are when it relates to items charged or credited viii Effective interest method recorded at the fair value of the proceeds directly to equity, in which case the income tax The effective interest method is a method received, net of direct issue costs.
is also charged or credited to equity.
of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income Foreign currencies Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary over the relevant period.
The effective Transactions in foreign currencies are differences between the carrying amounts interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts recorded at the exchange rates ruling on the of assets and liabilities for financial reporting estimated future cash receipts including all dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and purposes and the amount of their tax bases.
fees and points paid or received that form liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of an integral part of the effective interest rate, are translated into the functional currency at temporary differences associated with transaction costs and other premiums or the relevant rates of exchange ruling at the investments in subsidiaries, where the timing discounts through the expected life of the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange of the reversal of the temporary difference debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a differences arising on translation are can be controlled and it is probable that the shorter period, to the net carrying amount recognised in the income statement.
temporary difference will not reverse in the on initial recognition.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred measured at cost using the exchange rate on tax provided is based on the expected Income is recognised on an effective interest the date of the initial transaction.
manner of realisation or settlement of the basis for debt instruments other than those carrying amount of assets and liabilities.
financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of Deferred tax assets are recognised only the Groups overseas operations are translated to the extent that it is probable that future ix Derivative financial instruments and into sterling at the relevant rates of exchange taxable profits will be available against hedge accounting ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of which the asset can be utilised.
The Group uses interest rate and currency overseas operations are translated into sterling swap contracts to hedge its exposure to at average rates of exchange for the period.
Assessing the outcome of uncertain tax changes in interest rates and exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising from the positions requires judgements to be made in These contracts are designated as cash flow translation of the results and the retranslation relation to the likely outcome of negotiations hedges and hedge accounting is applied of opening net assets denominated in foreign with and enquiries from tax authorities and where the necessary criteria under IAS 39 currencies are taken directly to the Groups in some cases e. g. recoverability of VAT are met.
Derivative financial instruments are translation reserve.
When an overseas on gaming machines refer to note 17 and not used for trading or speculative purposes.
operation is sold, such exchange differences assessment of the likely outcome of other are recognised in the income statement as case law.
Derivative financial instruments are initially part of the gain or loss on sale.
measured at fair value on the contract Employee benefits date, and are re-measured to fair value at Revenue i Pension obligations subsequent reporting dates.
Fair value is Revenue is the fair value of goods and services The Group has both defined benefit and calculated as the present value of the sold to third parties as part of the Groups defined contribution pension arrangements.
trading activities, after deducting sales-based taxes, coupons and staff discounts.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet Changes in the fair value of derivative in respect of the Groups defined benefit instruments that are designated and effective The majority of revenue comprises food and arrangements is the present value of the as hedges of highly probable future cash beverages sold in the Groups outlets.
This defined benefit obligation, less the fair value flows are recognised in equity.
The cumulative revenue is recognised at the point of sale to of the scheme assets.
The cost of providing gain or loss is transferred from equity and the customer.
Revenue arising from the sale of benefits is determined using the projected recognised in the income statement at the development property is recognised on legal unit credit method as determined annually by same time as the hedged transaction affects completion of the sale.
Revenue relating to qualified actuaries.
This is based on a number profit or loss.
The ineffective part of transitional service agreements is recognised of financial assumptions and estimates, the any gain or loss is recognised in the income at the point which the service is provided.
determination of which is significant to the statement immediately.
These are set out and discussed in note 7 Pensions and include Movements in the fair value of derivative judgements in relation to long-term interest instruments which do not qualify for hedge rates, inflation, investment returns and accounting are recognised in the income longevity of current and future pensioners.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 44 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The current service cost, together with the Dividends IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements cost of any benefits relating to past service, is Dividends proposed by the Board but unpaid establishes the principles for the charged to operating profit.
The interest cost at the year end are not recognised in the presentation of consolidated financial and the expected return on assets are shown financial statements until they have been statements when an entity controls one or as a net amount within finance income or approved by shareholders at the Annual more other entities.
This will be effective finance expense.
Actuarial gains and losses General Meeting.
Interim dividends are for the Group in 2013 14. are recognised in full in the period in which recognised when paid.
No dividends they occur, in the statement of comprehensive were proposed or paid in the current or IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements a party to income, rather than the income statement.
a joint arrangement determines the type Curtailments and settlements relating to the of joint arrangement in which it is involved Groups defined benefit plan are recognised in Adjusted profit by assessing its rights and obligations and the income statement in the period in which In addition to presenting information on an accounts for those rights and obligations the curtailment or settlement occurs.
IFRS basis, the Group also presents adjusted in accordance with that type of joint profit and earnings per share information arrangement.
This will be effective for the For the defined contribution arrangements, that excludes exceptional items and other Group in 2013 14. the charge against profit is equal to the amount adjustments including the related tax on of contributions payable for that period.
This adjusted information is IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other disclosed to allow a better understanding of Entities sets out the requirements to disclose ii Share-based compensation the underlying trading performance of the information that enables users of financial The Group operates a number of Group and is consistent with the Groups statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks equity-settled share-based compensation internal management reporting.
Exceptional associated with, its interests in other entities plans, whereby, subject to meeting any items are those which are separately identified and the effects of these interests on its relevant conditions, employees are awarded by virtue of their size or incidence so as to financial position, financial performance and shares or rights over shares.
The cost of such allow a better understanding of the underlying cash flows.
This will be effective for the awards is measured at fair value, excluding trading performance of the Group, including Group in 2013 14. the effect of non market-based vesting movements in the valuation of the property conditions, on the date of grant.
Other adjustments excluded from IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements defines fair is recognised over the vesting period and adjusted profit and earnings per share value, sets out in a single IFRS a framework for is adjusted for the estimated effect of non comprise the IAS 19 net pensions finance measuring fair value and requires disclosures market-based vesting conditions and charge which can be volatile, as it is calculated about fair value measurements.
This will be forfeitures, on the number of shares that will with reference to long-term interest rates and effective for the Group in 2013 14. eventually vest due to employees leaving the represents a non-cash number.
Fair values are Exchange rates calculated using a combination of BlackRecent accounting developments The results of overseas operations have been Scholes, Binomial and Monte Carlo simulation The International Accounting Standards Board translated into sterling at the weighted models depending on the conditions attached IASB and International Financial Reporting average euro rate of exchange for the financial to the particular share scheme.
Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued period of 1 1.15 2010 1 1.15, the following standards and interpretations where this is a reasonable approximation Own shares which have been adopted by the Group in to the rate at the dates of the transactions.
The cost of own shares held in employee these financial statements for the first time.
Euro and US denominated assets and liabilities share trusts and in treasury are deducted have been translated at the relevant rate of from shareholders equity until the shares are Amendment to IAS 17 Leases for the Annual exchange at the balance sheet date of cancelled, reissued or disposed.
Where such improvements to IFRS 5 2009 requires the 1 1.15 2010 1 1.17 and 1 $1.55 shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the Group to reassess the classification of leases 2010 1 $1.58 respectively.
fair value of any consideration received is also over land as previously all such leases were included in shareholders equity.
No changes to classification have arisen from this change.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following a present legal or constructive obligation as a standards and interpretations which could result of past events, it is more likely than not impact the Group, with an effective date that an outflow of resources will be required after the date of these financial statements.
to settle the obligation and the amount can be They have not been adopted early by the reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured Group and are not expected to have any using the Directors best estimate of the material impact.
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted IFRS 9 Financial Statements simplifies the to present value where the effect is material.
classification, recognition and measurement requirements for financial assets, financial liabilities and some contracts to buy or sell non-financial items.
This will be effective for the Group in 2013 14, if adopted by the European Union.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 45 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 2.
Segmental analysis IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be based on the Groups internal reporting to its Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM is regarded as the Chief Executive and the other Board members.
The CODM uses profit before interest and exceptional items Operating profit pre exceptionals as the key measure of the segment results.
Group assets are reviewed as part of this process but are not presented on a segment basis.
In the strategy review statement issued on 24 March 2010 and reaffirmed in the 2010 Annual report, the Group noted that it intended to assess the performance of its retail operating units after incorporating a rental charge and to review the results and position of the retail operating and property businesses independently.
The retail operating business operates all of the Groups retail operating units and generates all of its external revenue.
The property business holds the Groups freehold and long leasehold property portfolio and derives all of its income from the internal rent levied against the Groups retail operating units.
The internal rent charge is eliminated at the total Group level.
Retail Operating Business Property Business Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Retained business Revenue 1,762 1,680 1,762 1,680 c c EBITDA pre exceptionals 208 201 190 190 398 391 Operating profit pre exceptionals 110 108 178 177 288 285 a Other operations Revenue 34 300 EBITDA pre exceptionals 6 58 Operating profit pre exceptionals 6 37 Total business b Revenue 1,796 1,980 EBITDA pre exceptionals 404 449 Operating profit pre exceptionals 294 322 d Exceptional items and other adjustments 19 289 Operating profit 275 33 Net finance costs 143 160 Profit before tax 132 127 Tax expense credit 7 43 Profit loss for the financial period 125 84 a.
Other operations include Bowl and Lodge disposals that completed in the year ended 25 September 2010 as well as the sites disposed to Stonegate in November 2010.
The performance of this segment in the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 relates primarily to the pre-disposal trading in relation to sites disposed to Stonegate.
No analysis is provided for these sites in relation to Operating Property business as this information is not reviewed by the CODM.
b. R evenue includes other income of 6m in respect of transitional services arrangements including those in relation to the disposal of pubs to Stonegate, refer to page 14 and 13m in relation to franchise operations.
c. The EBITDA pre exceptionals of the property business relates entirely to rental income received from the retail operating business.
Geographic segments Substantially all of the Groups business is conducted in the United Kingdom.
In presenting information by geographical segment, segment revenue and non-current assets are based on the geographical location of the retail operating businesses and assets.
Includes balances relating to intangibles, property, plant and equipment and non-current lease premiums.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 46 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.
Operating costs 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks m m Raw materials and consumables recognised as an expense 550 578 Changes in inventory of finished goods and work in progress 9 Employee costs and exceptional pension charge note 5 507 532 Hire of plant and machinery 16 27 Operating lease rentals: minimum lease payments 42 52 contingent rents 1 Other costs 290 332 1,405 1,531 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 13 108 124 Amortisation of intangible assets note 12 2 2 Amortisation of lease premiums 1 Total movement in the valuation of the property portfolio note 8 2 304 Depreciation, amortisation and movement in the valuation of the property portfolio 112 431 1,517 1,962 4.
Auditors remuneration 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the: Audit of the Companys financial statements 0.1 0.1 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries financial statements 0.2 0.3 Total audit fees 0.3 0.4 Other fees to auditors: corporate finance services 0.7 internal audit services 0.2 tax services other services 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.3 0.7 The auditor fee for the audit of the parent company was 22,000 2010 22,000.
All of the auditor remuneration was paid in the UK.
2010 fees were payable to Ernst & Young LLP.
The internal audit services were provided by Deloitte prior to their appointment as external auditor, refer to page 24.
 have provided support for internal audit services as Deloitte resigned following their appointment as external auditor.
Employees and Directors 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks m m Costs Wages and salaries 448 481 Share-based payments note 6 6 4 Total wages and salaries 454 485 Social security costs 32 36 Pensions note 7 21 11 507 532 The average number of employees including part-time employees was 40,728 2010 44,600.
Detailed information regarding Directors emoluments, pensions, long-term incentive scheme entitlements and their interests in share options is given in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 25 to 33.
Share-based payments The expense recognised for share-based payments in the year is 6m 2010 4m which comprises share option schemes and share awards.
The Group had seven share schemes, all of which are equity-settled, in operation during the year.
The vesting of all awards or options is generally dependent upon participants remaining in the employment of a participating company during the vesting period.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 47 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 6.
Share-based payments continued Sharesave Plan The Sharesave Plan is a HMRC approved savings scheme, whereby the proceeds from a savings contract, of either three or five years duration, may be used to purchase shares under option.
Options are typically granted in June or July of each year, at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares at the date of invitation.
There are no performance conditions.
The scheme is open to all UK employees provided that they have at least 12 months service at the date of invitation.
The vesting period is 39 months or 63 months and options may be exercised up to six months after the vesting date.
Share Incentive Plan The Share Incentive Plan SIP is a HMRC approved savings scheme open to all UK employees with at least 12 months service at the date of invitation.
The plan awards free shares to participating employees based on salary, up to a maximum award of 3,000 per employee per year.
There are no performance conditions other than remaining in employment for two years from the date of award: hence there is a vesting period of two years from the award date.
Shares are generally held in Trust for at least three years and are capable of being released to participants at any time thereafter.
Short-Term Deferred Incentive Plan Under the Short-Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP the annual bonuses of the Executive Directors and other eligible employees may be deferred into Mitchells & Butlers plc shares.
From the 2009 10 bonus year onwards, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, at least 50% of the annual bonus for the Executive Directors and any excess over 75% of base salary earned in the year for the other eligible employees, will normally be deferred and released in equal tranches 12 and 24 months after deferral.
Participants are also entitled to receive Dividend Accrued Shares on vesting equal to the value of the ordinary dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares during the performance period.
All deferrals of bonuses into shares to date have been entirely at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Long-Term Incentive Plan An award was made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP on 30 July 2010 to Executive Directors and other employees who would otherwise have been eligible to participate in the PRSP.
Participants have been awarded a conditional right to receive Mitchells & Butlers plc shares with a value determined by their percentage of the LTIP pool: 69.99% of the total pool was allocated as at 24 September 2011.
The size of the LTIP pool is calculated based upon achieving a three year growth in market capitalisation of the Company in excess of the Hurdle Amount market capitalisation at award date plus 10% growth per annum, adjusted downwards for any dividends paid over the three year performance period ending on 29 July 2013.
The LTIP pool is capped at 100m with any excess over this amount requiring Remuneration Committee approval.
Overall vesting of awards is also dependent upon the achievement of an adjusted earnings per share underpin whereby the award is capable of vesting only if adjusted EPS growth from financial year 2010 to 2013 is at least equal to RPI plus 12 percentage points.
If the EPS condition is not met no award vests.
If the above performance conditions are met the value of the LTIP pool will be converted into shares using the market value of a share at the end of the performance period.
Subject to being in employment on the vesting date, participants will receive 50% of the allocation of shares once the three year performance conditions have been determined following the conclusion of the 2013 financial year end.
A further 25% of the award will then be available 12 months after the initial 50% and the remaining 25% will be available 24 months after the initial 50% vests.
Participants may also receive a payment in cash or shares of an amount equal to the dividends that are payable on shares from the end of the performance period until the vesting date.
Performance Restricted Share Plan The Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP allows Executive Directors and other eligible employees to receive nominal cost options, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, set by the Remuneration Committee, which are normally measured over a three year period.
Vesting for all current awards is conditional upon the achievement of a total shareholder return TSR performance condition.
It is also dependent upon either an adjusted earnings per share growth November 2009 award or a cash return on cash capital employed CROCCE performance condition all previous awards.
The vesting period for these options is generally three years followed by a two year exercise period.
In respect of the TSR performance condition, Monte Carlo simulations were performed to incorporate the market condition in the measurement of the fair value.
For the award made in November 2009 this is based upon an index of our competitors whereas prior awards are based on a ranked approach.
For all awards, participants will be entitled to receive Dividend Accrued Shares on vesting equal to the value of the ordinary dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares during the performance period.
Due to the introduction of the LTIP, as detailed above, no awards of the PRSP are anticipated during the three year LTIP performance period.
Executive Share Option Plan The grant of options under the Executive Share Option Plan EXSOP was discontinued following shareholder approval of changes to Executive Director remuneration in 2006.
The vesting period for these options is three years from grant, followed by a seven year exercise period.
The latest possible exercise date for any of these options outstanding at 24 September 2011, is 24 May 2015.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 48 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Rolled-over options Under the terms of the separation in 2003, holders of options under the Six Continents Executive Share Option Schemes were given the opportunity to exchange their Six Continents PLC options for equivalent value new options over Mitchells & Butlers plc shares.
The exchanged options are not subject to performance conditions and were immediately exercisable.
The latest possible exercise date for any of the Rolled-over options outstanding at 24 September 2011, is 28 May 2012.
Further details of the above schemes, including the changes to the PRSP and the STDIP, which have been implemented this year, and details relating to the new LTIP, are included in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 25 to 33.
The Group has used separate option pricing models and assumptions for each plan.
The following tables set out weighted average information about how the fair value of each option grant was calculated: Long-Term Performance Incentive Restricted Sharesave 2011 Plan Share Plan Plan Monte Carlo Simulation and Valuation model Monte Carlo Binomial Black-Scholes a Weighted average share price 333.5p 315.0p Exercise price 253.0p Expected dividend yield 2.00% 2.00% Risk-free interest rate 1.23% 1.84% e Volatility 52.6% 47.5% f Expected life years 3.70 4.04 Long-Term Performance Incentive Restricted Sharesave 2010 Plan Share Plan Plan Monte Carlo Simulation and Valuation model Monte Carlo Binomial Black-Scholes Weighted average share price 311.9p 252.5p 274.0p b Exercise price 257.0p c d c Expected dividend yield 2.00% 2.00% Risk-free interest rate 1.43% 3.28% 1.85% e Volatility 54.0% 54.1% 48.3% f Expected life years 4.09 3.00 4.15 a.
During the period an additional 14.49% of the pool was awarded at a weighted average share price of 333.5p.
This gave a weighted average market capitalisation of 1,301m which was used in the fair value calculation.
The share price for the 2010 LTIP multiplied by the number of shares in issue on award date gives the market capitalisation at date of grant of 1,275m, which has been used to calculate the Hurdle Amount.
There is no exercise price associated with the LTIP.
b. T he exercise price relating to the PRSP is 1 per participating employee per exercise.
c. The expected dividend yield for the Sharesave Plan and LTIP has used historical dividend information.
For details on the Groups current dividend policy refer to the Financial review on page 7. d. T he expected dividend yield input for the grant of PRSP options in 2009 and 2010 is zero as participants are entitled to Dividend Accrued Shares to the value of the ordinary dividends paid during the vesting period.
e. The expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price commensurate with the expected term of the options and share awards.
f. The expected life of the options represents the average length of time between grant date and exercise date.
The fair value of awards under the STDIP is equal to the share price on the date of award as there is no price to be paid and employees are entitled to Dividend Accrued Shares.
The assumptions set out above are therefore not relevant to this scheme.
The fair value of the SIP shares is equal to the share price on the date of grant as there is no option price to be paid and employees are entitled to dividends during the vesting period.
Hence the assumptions set out above are not relevant to this scheme.
The Dividend Accrued Shares awarded during the period in respect of the PRSP and the STDIP have no incremental fair value as this has already been included within the fair value of the original award through the dividend yield assumption, as noted above.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 49 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 6.
Share-based payments continued Movements in the awards and options outstanding under these schemes excluding the LTIP for the years ended 24 September 2011 and 25 September 2010 are as follows: Short-Term Performance Share Deferred Restricted Incentive Incentive Plan Share Plan Plan Number of Number of Number of shares shares shares thousands thousands thousands Outstanding at 26 September 2009 204 8,671 1,288 a Granted 9 2,551 338 Exercised 88 261 144 Lapsed 86 2,232 77 Outstanding at 25 September 2010 39 8,729 1,405 Granted 101 308 Exercised 68 386 264 Lapsed 2,899 61 Outstanding at 24 September 2011 72 5,444 1,388 b Fair value of options granted during the period pence At 24 September 2011 345.6 315.0 a c At 25 September 2010 151.6 274.0 Weighted average remaining contract life years d At 24 September 2011 0.6 2.5 d At 25 September 2010 1.2 3.0 a.
There was no grant under the STDIP during 2010 as the Executive Directors bonuses were forgone.
The grant shown relates to Dividend Accrued Shares awarded during the period.
b. F air value is based on the date of grant.
c. For the PRSP excluding Dividend Accrued Shares the weighted average fair value is shown.
d. S IP shares are capable of remaining within the SIP trust indefinitely while participants continue to be employed by the Group.
Although shares will be delivered under the LTIP it is not possible to identify the number of shares to be awarded until the end of the performance period in November 2013, hence this scheme is not included in the table above.
The number of lapsed shares in the period includes 338,156 2010 428,378 cancellations.
b. W eighted average fair value based on the date of grant has been shown for the Sharesave Plan.
c. The fair value of options exercisable at 24 September 2011 for the EXSOP was nil and rolled over options nil due to the share price at the year end.
The weighted average share price during the period was 311.8p 2010 286.3p.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 50 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Summarised information about options outstanding at 24 September 2011 under the share option schemes is as follows: Options outstanding Options exercisable Weighted Weighted average Weighted average Weighted Number remaining average Number remaining average outstanding contract life option price outstanding contract life option price Range of exercise prices pence thousands years pence thousands years pence Performance Restricted Share Plan a a a Negligible 5,444 2.5 31 0.2 Executive Share Option Plan 219.0 298 1.7 219.0 298 1.7 219.0 252.5 840 2.7 252.5 840 2.7 252.5 326.1 1,185 3.7 326.1 1,185 3.7 326.1 2,323 3.0 285.7 2,323 3.0 285.7 Sharesave Plan 401.0 50 0.5 401.0 711.0 37 1.5 711.0 259.0 688 1.1 259.0 196.0 1,695 2.2 196.0 257.0 727 3.2 257.0 253.0 963 4.1 253.0 4,160 2.6 237.3 Rolled-over options 266.7 382 0.7 266.7 382 0.7 266.7 a.
The exercise price relating to the PRSP is 1 per participating employee per exercise.
Pensions Background Retirement and death benefits are provided for eligible employees in the United Kingdom principally by the Mitchells & Butlers Pension Plan MABPP and the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Pension Plan MABEPP.
These plans are funded, HMRC approved, occupational pension schemes with defined contribution and defined benefit sections.
The defined benefit sections of the plans closed to new entrants during 2002 with new members provided with defined contribution arrangements.
On 2 November 2010, Mitchells & Butlers plc concluded a process of consultation and review with the Trustees, in which it considered proposals to close the defined benefit plan to future accruals.
The ceasing of future accruals for this plan became effective from 13 March 2011.
At the same time Mitchells & Butlers plc implemented a revised defined contribution benefit structure.
As a result of this change a curtailment charge of 13m has been included within exceptional items, see note 3.
The defined benefit liability relates to these funded plans, together with an unfunded unapproved pension arrangement the Executive Top-Up Scheme, or MABETUS in respect of certain MABEPP members.
The assets of the plans are held in self-administered trust funds separate from the Companys assets.
Restatement following change to IFRIC 14 As part of the closure of the defined benefit scheme on 12 March 2011, the Company has reconsidered the appropriate accounting under IFRIC 14 for the Companys funding obligations.
Following this review, the Company has concluded that a restatement of the accounting at 25 September 2010 is required which has the impact of reducing the pension liability by 56m, reducing the related deferred tax asset by 43m and increasing brought forward retained earnings through an increase in other comprehensive income by the net amount of 13m.
The tables below provide a summary of the amounts previously reported, the adjustments made and the restated amounts: As reported Adjustment Restated 2010 2010 2010 Long-term Long-term Long-term rates of rates of rates of return return return expected Value expected Value expected Value % m % m % m Equities 7.4 464 7.4 464 Bonds 4.1 935 4.1 935 Property 7.4 6 7.4 6 Fair value of assets 1,405 1,405 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,548 1,548 Deficit in the schemes recognised as a liability in the balance sheet 143 143 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 56 56 Net liability 199 56 143 Associated deferred tax asset Deferred tax relating to IAS 19 valuation note 20 39 39 Deferred tax on irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 43 43 82 43 39 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 51 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 7.
Pensions continued The restated combined assets of the MABPP and MABEPP, their expected rates of return and the value of the pension scheme assets and liabilities at 25 September 2010 are summarised as follows: As reported Adjusted Restated 2010 2010 2010 Group statement of comprehensive income m m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 65 65 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 108 108 Actuarial loss recognised 43 43 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 13 13 Total loss 56 13 43 Measurement of scheme assets and liabilities IAS 19 and IFRIC 14 The valuations used for IAS 19 purposes are based on the results of the latest full actuarial valuation carried out at 31 March 2010 and updated by the schemes qualified actuaries to 24 September 2011.
Scheme assets are stated at market value at 24 September 2011 and the liabilities of the schemes have been assessed as at the same date using the projected unit method.
IAS 19 requires that the scheme liabilities are discounted using market yields at the end of the period on high quality corporate bonds see discount rate assumption in the table below.
The IAS 19 deficit calculated on this basis is 37m, 2010 deficit 143m, 2009 deficit 130m as set out below.
Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
Principal financial assumptions The principal financial assumptions used by the actuaries at the balance sheet date were: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 a a a b b Wages and salaries increases 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 5.0% 4.9% Pensions increases 3.1% 3.3% 3.3% 3.5% 3.4% Discount rate 5.2% 5.1% 5.5% 6.5% 5.9% Inflation rate 3.2% 3.3% 3.3% 3.5% 3.4% a.
Reflects the impact of pension changes introduced during the prior period.
Represents the assumption for MABPP members with equivalent assumption for MABEPP members of 6.0% in 2008 and 5.9% in 2007.
This included allowance for promotional salary increases.
The discount rate applied to the pension schemes liabilities is a significant driver of the net balance sheet valuation of the schemes and is subject to a high degree of judgement and complexity.
It is estimated that a 0.1% increase or decrease in the discount rate used would, in isolation, reduce or increase the net balance sheet deficit by approximately 26m 2010 30m, with no material impact on the income statement charge.
Mortality assumptions The mortality assumptions were reviewed following the full actuarial valuation in March 2010 and are based on the S1NA mortality tables for the MABPP and S1NA light tables for the MABEPP.
An allowance was made for medium cohort projection with a 1% underpin.
Ages are rated up by one year for pensioners of the MABPP and rated down by two years for all members of the MABEPP.
Assumptions are consistent across both the current and previous period.
A summary of the average life expectancies assumed is as follows: 2011 2010 Main plan Exec plan Main plan Exec plan years years years years Male member aged 65 current life expectancy 20.3 24.6 20.2 24.5 Male member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 23.0 26.4 22.9 26.3 Female member aged 65 current life expectancy 23.1 26.0 23.0 25.9 Female member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 25.8 28.0 25.7 27.9 Amounts recognised in respect of defined benefit schemes The long-term rates of return on assets at 24 September 2011 shown in the following table form the basis of the calculation of the expected return on pension scheme assets for the 2012 financial year.
The 2010 rates shown are used in calculating the 2011 expected return.
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumptions, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free investments primarily government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class.
The expected return for each asset class is weighted based on the asset allocation, to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio, resulting in a weighted average assumption of 5.2% 2010 5.1%, 2009 5.5%.
The actual investment return achieved on the scheme assets over the year was 5.8% 2010 11.8%, 2009 7.9%, which represented a gain of 74m 2010 gain of 135m, 2009 gain of 84m.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 52 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The combined assets of the MABPP and MABEPP, their expected rates of return and the value of the pension scheme assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date can be summarised as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Longterm Longterm Longterm rates of rates of rates of return return return a expected Value expected Value expected Value % m % m % m Equities 6.9 420 7.4 464 7.5 467 Bonds 3.8 1,046 4.1 935 4.5 800 Property 3.8 6 7.4 6 7.5 13 Fair value of assets 1,472 1,405 1,280 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,509 1,548 1,410 Deficit in the schemes recognised as a liability in the balance sheet 37 143 130 Associated deferred tax asset 9 39 36 a.
Restated, further details are provided in the narrative on page 51.
The following amounts relating to the Groups defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements have been recognised in the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income: 2011 2010 2009 restated Group income statement m m m Operating profit: Current service cost defined benefit plans 4 8 10 Current service cost defined contribution plans 4 3 2 Total current service cost 8 11 12 Exceptional pension charge credit 13 44 Charge credit to operating profit 21 11 32 Finance income: Expected return on pension scheme assets 74 69 73 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 79 76 79 Net finance charge in respect of pensions 5 7 6 Total charge credit 26 18 26 2011 2010 2009 Group statement of comprehensive income m m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 5 65 10 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 79 108 184 Actuarial gain loss recognised 84 43 174 The movement in the fair value of the schemes assets in the period is as follows: Scheme assets 2011 2010 2009 m m m Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of period 1,405 1,280 1,211 Expected return on plan assets 74 69 73 Employee contributions 1 1 1 Employer contributions 44 45 39 Benefits paid 57 55 54 Actuarial gain recognised 5 65 10 At end of period 1,472 1,405 1,280 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 53 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 7.
Pensions continued Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: Defined benefit obligation 2011 2010 2009 m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation at beginning of period 1,548 1,410 1,234 Current service cost 4 8 10 Exceptional pension charge credit see note 8 13 44 Interest cost on benefit obligations 79 76 79 Employee contributions 1 1 1 Benefits paid 57 55 54 Actuarial gain loss recognised 79 108 184 a At end of period 1,509 1,548 1,410 a.
The defined benefit obligation comprises 17 m 2010 16 m, 2009 15 m relating to the MABETUS unfunded plan and 1,492 m 2010 1,532 m, 2009 1,395 m relating to the funded plans.
History of experience gains and losses: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets Amount m 5 65 10 150 24 Percentage of scheme assets 0% 5% 1% 12 % 2% Experience gains losses on scheme liabilities Amount m 34 2 16 Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 2% 0% 1 % 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 restated Total amount recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income Amount m 84 43 174 35 33 Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 6% 3 % 12 % 3 % 3% The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 26 September 2004 in the Group statement of comprehensive income is a 115m loss 2010 199m loss, 2009 156m loss.
The Directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRS and taken directly to equity is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of the schemes.
Consequently, the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income before 26 September 2004.
Funding valuation and future funding obligations The results of the 2010 actuarial valuation showed a funding deficit of 400m, using a more prudent basis to discount the scheme liabilities than is required by IAS 19 and on 21 July 2010 the Company formally agreed a 10 year recovery plan with the Trustees to close the funding deficit in respect of its pension scheme liabilities.
The result of this was that the Group agreed to increase additional contributions from 24m to 40m per annum, commencing from 1 April 2010, subject to review at the next full actuarial valuation in 2013.
The Group has therefore made additional contributions of 40m during the current financial year and, subject to this review, will make further additional contributions of 40m in each of the financial years from 2012 to 2019 and 20m in the financial year 2020.
In the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011, the Group paid regular contributions of 4m 2010 13m, 2009 15m and additional contributions of 40m 2010 32m, 2009 24m in respect of the defined benefit arrangements.
In addition the Group paid 6m 2010 3m, 2009 2m in respect of the defined contribution arrangements.
At 24 September 2011 the MABPP owed 2m 2010 nil to the Group in respect of expenses paid on their behalf.
This amount is included in other receivables in note 15.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 54 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8.
Exceptional items and other adjustments 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks Notes m m Operating exceptional items Exceptional pension charge note 7 a 13 Profits on disposal of properties 6 26 Losses on disposal of properties 10 11 Net loss profit arising on property disposals 4 15 Movements in the valuation of the property portfolio: Reversal impairment arising from the revaluation b 8 256 Other impairment b 10 23 Impairment arising on classification of assets held for sale b 25 Total movements in the valuation of the property portfolio 2 304 Total operating exceptional items 19 289 Other adjustments Net pensions finance charge note 7 c 5 7 Total exceptional items and other adjustments before tax 24 296 Tax credit relating to above items 25 77 Exceptional tax charge credit in respect of prior years d 2 9 Tax credit in respect of change in tax legislation e 12 5 35 91 Total exceptional items and other adjustments after tax 11 205 a.
Relates to a curtailment charge in respect of the closure of the defined benefit pension plans to future accruals which occurred during the period, see note 7. b. M ovements in the valuation of the property portfolio includes 8m of credit 2010 256 m of write down arising from the Groups revaluation of its pub estate, 10m 2010 23m of other impairment of short leasehold and unlicensed properties where their carrying values exceed their recoverable amount and nil 2010 25m of impairment against assets transferred to non-current assets held for sale, where the expected net sale proceeds are less than the book value.
c. The net pensions finance charge is a non-cash adjustment which is excluded from adjusted profit.
d. T he current year charge is an adjustment in respect of prior year disposals.
The 2010 credit represents the release of provisions relating to tax matters which have been settled principally relating to disposals.
e. A deferred tax credit has been recognised in the current year following the changes enacted in legislation on 19 July 2011, which reduced the UK standard rate of corporation tax from 27% to 25% from 1 April 2012.
Finance costs and revenue 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks m m Finance costs Securitised and other debt loans and receivables 141 153 Finance revenue Interest receivable cash 3 Net finance charge in respect of pensions note 7 5 7 10.
Taxation 2011 2010 2009 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks m m m Tax charged credited in the income statement Current tax: UK corporation tax 32 16 Amounts overprovided in previous years 3 1 8 Total current tax 29 15 8 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 13 45 2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3 8 8 Change in tax rate 12 5 Total deferred tax note 20 22 58 6 Total tax charged credited in the income statement 7 43 14 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 55 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 10.
Taxation continued 2011 2010 2009 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks m m m Tax relating to items recognised in equity Unrealised gains losses due to revaluations 1 4 12 Actuarial gains losses on pension schemes 25 11 49 Cash flow hedges: Losses arising during the period 30 36 25 Reclassification adjustments for losses included in profit or loss 15 14 3 Tax charge credit on items of other comprehensive profit loss 9 37 65 Tax on share-based payments recognised directly in equity 2 2 1 Total tax charge credit on items recognised in equity 11 39 66 Reconciliation of the total tax charge The tax charge in the income statement for the year is lower 2010 credit higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The differences are reconciled below: 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks m m Profit loss before tax 132 127 Accounting profit loss multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 27% 2010 28% 36 35 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3 8 Income not taxable for tax purposes 20 9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2 Tax credit in respect of change in tax rate 12 5 Total tax charge credit reported in the income statement 7 43 Factors which may affect future tax charges A number of changes to the UK Corporation Tax system were announced in the March 2011 Budget Statement.
The Finance Act 2011 was enacted on 19 July 2011 and reduced the main rate of corporation tax from 26% to 25% from 1 April 2012.
The effect of this change has been reflected on the closing deferred tax balance shown in note 20.
Further reductions to the main rate of corporation tax are proposed to be enacted separately each year with the aim of reducing the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014.
In addition, the Finance Act 2011 reduced the rate of capital allowances from 1 April 2012.
None of these further changes are included in these financial statements.
We estimate that these further changes in total could decrease the level of cash tax payable by the Group, although the full effects have yet to be quantified.
The reduction in the corporation tax rate is likely to result in a further reduction in the net deferred tax liability provided at 24 September 2011 of approximately 28m in total.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS has been calculated by dividing the profit or loss for the financial period by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding own shares held in treasury and by employee share trusts.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share amounts are presented before exceptional items and other adjustments see note 8 and the net pensions finance charge see note 7 in order to allow a better understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
The restatement of the 2010 pension position note 7 did not impact the income statement result and therefore does not impact EPS.
Basic EPS Diluted EPS pence per pence per Profit loss ordinary ordinary m share share 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011: Profit EPS 125 30.7p 30.5p Exceptional items and other adjustments, net of tax 15 3.7 p 3.7 p Net pensions finance charge, net of tax 4 1.0p 0.9p Adjusted profit EPS 114 28.0p 27.7p 52 weeks ended 25 September 2010: a Loss EPS 84 20.6 p 20.6 p Exceptional items and other adjustments, net of tax 200 49.1p 48.8p Net pensions finance charge, net of tax 5 1.2p 1.2p Adjusted profit EPS 121 29.7p 29.4p a.
The 2010 diluted EPS has not been presented as it is unchanged from the basic EPS as the inclusion of the dilutive potential ordinary shares would reduce the loss per share and is therefore not dilutive in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per Share.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 56 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculations above are as follows: 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks m m For basic EPS calculations 407 407 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Contingently issuable shares 2 3 Other share options 2 1 For diluted EPS calculations 411 411 At 24 September 2011, 164,146 2010 2,990,654 other share options were outstanding that could potentially dilute basic EPS in the future but were not included in the calculation of diluted EPS as they are anti-dilutive for the periods presented.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Computer Goodwill software Total m m m Cost At 26 September 2009 5 5 Additions 2 2 At 25 September 2010 7 7 Additions 7 4 11 Disposals 3 3 At 24 September 2011 7 8 15 Accumulated amortisation At 26 September 2009 4 4 Provided during the year 2 2 At 25 September 2010 6 6 Provided during the year 2 2 Disposals 3 3 At 24 September 2011 5 5 Net book value At 24 September 2011 7 3 10 At 25 September 2010 1 1 At 26 September 2009 1 1 There are no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.
All amortisation charges have been expensed through operating costs.
The period of amortisation for computer software ranges between three and ten years with the majority being five years.
Goodwill has been tested for impairment on a site-by-site basis using the discounted cash flows from applying the Groups cost of capital to the forecast site EBITDA.
A discount rate of 7% has been used in these calculations.
For the purposes of the calculation of the recoverable amount, the cash flow projections beyond the two-year period include 2% growth per annum.
The Directors have considered the need for further disclosures in respect of goodwill and information in the financial statements however, given the value of the balance, no further disclosures have been provided.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 57 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 13.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost or valuation At 26 September 2009 3,867 956 4,823 Exchange differences 1 2 3 Additions 57 79 136 a Revaluation 222 1 223 b Disposals 111 107 218 Impairment arising on classification of non-current assets held for sale 3 22 25 Transferred to assets held for sale 399 183 582 At 25 September 2010 3,188 720 3,908 Exchange differences 1 1 Acquired through business combinations 9 6 15 Additions 52 92 144 a Revaluation 62 1 61 b Disposals 12 63 75 Transferred from assets held for sale 38 12 50 At 24 September 2011 3,337 767 4,104 Depreciation At 26 September 2009 72 290 362 Exchange differences 1 2 3 Provided during the year 23 101 124 b Disposals 27 70 97 Transferred to assets held for sale 42 116 158 a Revaluation 13 13 At 25 September 2010 12 203 215 Exchange differences 1 1 Provided during the year 19 89 108 b Disposals 11 61 72 a Revaluation 10 10 Transferred from non-current assets held for sale 7 7 14 At 24 September 2011 17 239 256 Net book value At 24 September 2011 3,320 528 3,848 At 25 September 2010 3,176 517 3,693 At 26 September 2009 3,795 666 4,461 a.
The net book value increase due to revaluation of 71m 2010 210 m decrease comprises a loss in relation to revaluation and impairment of short leasehold and unlicensed properties 2 m 2010 279 m, see note 8, net of a revaluation reserve credit of 73m 2010 69m shown in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
b. I ncludes assets which are fully depreciated and have been removed from the fixed asset ledger.
Certain assets with a net book value of 33m 2010 22m owned by the Group are subject to a fixed charge in respect of liabilities held by the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Top-Up Scheme MABETUS.
Properties A policy of valuing the majority of the Groups freehold and long leasehold properties, for accounting purposes, was adopted on 29 September 2007.
Short leasehold properties and fixtures, fittings and equipment are held at cost less depreciation and impairment, which is also considered by the Group to be a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are held at their carrying value in accordance with the Groups policy or their fair value less costs to sell where this is lower.
The Group accounts for long leasehold land as an operating lease.
The freehold and long leasehold properties were valued at market value, as at 24 September 2011 and 25 September 2010 by Colliers International UK plc, independent chartered surveyors and by Andrew Cox MRICS, Director of Property, Chartered Surveyor.
The valuation was carried out in accordance with the provisions of RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards The Red Book assuming each asset is sold as part of the continuing enterprise in occupation individually as a fully operational trading entity.
The market value has been determined having regard to factors such as current and future projected income levels, taking account of the location, the quality of the pub restaurant and recent market transactions in the sector.
Changes in these assumptions such as the valuation basis applied in comparable market transactions, or the income level generated by a pub could materially impact the valuation of the freehold and long leasehold properties.
It is estimated that a 1 change in the EBITDA of the freehold and long leasehold properties would generate a circa 8 movement in their valuation.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment which are not revalued to fair market value are reviewed on an outlet basis for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Included within property, plant and equipment are assets with a net book value of 3,594m 2010 3,497m, which are pledged as security for the securitisation debt and over which there are certain restrictions on title.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 58 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Finance leases The net book value of fixtures, fittings and equipment includes nil 2010 2m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The assets are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities.
a Net book value The split of the net book value of land and buildings is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Freehold 2,952 2,842 3,360 Leasehold: Unexpired term of more than 50 years 260 246 298 Unexpired term of 50 years or less 108 88 137 3,320 3,176 3,795 a.
The carrying value of freehold and long leasehold land and buildings based on their historic cost or deemed cost at transition to IFRS, is 2,244m and 200m 2010 2,215m and 194m respectively.
In addition to the above, premiums paid on acquiring a new lease are classified in the balance sheet as prepayments of rentals under the leases.
At 24 September 2011 an amount of 6m 2010 8m, 2009 10m was included in the balance sheet.
Work in progress is in respect of property developments.
Goods held for resale are stated after the transfer of nil 2010 4m into assets held for sale see note 16.
Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 2009 m m m Trade receivables 1 1 1 Other receivables 20 44 15 a Prepayments 18 20 24 b Other financial assets 31 32 70 97 40 a. Prepayments are stated after the transfer of nil 2010 2m into assets held for sale see note 16. b.
Other financial assets relates to the swap provider and the securitised debt see note 19.
All amounts fall due within one year.
Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing and are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore held at amortised cost.
Trade and other receivables past due and not impaired are immaterial and therefore no further analysis is presented.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximately equates to their face value.
Assets held for sale Assets held for sale Disposal group Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Land and buildings 61 300 361 Fixtures, fittings and equipment 9 57 66 Other 7 7 Total 70 364 434 Impairment arising on classification as assets held for sale 7 18 25 Assets held for sale comprise certain operating assets which have been approved for sale, such that the carrying amount is expected to be recovered through a sale, rather than through continuing use.
Sales are expected within 12 months from the date of classification.
There are no assets classified as held for sale at 24 September 2011.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 59 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 17.
Trade and other payables 2011 2010 2009 m m m Current Trade payables 89 100 96 Other taxation and social security 57 66 48 Accrued charges 66 80 73 Other payables 30 31 53 Capital payables 25 25 Other financial liabilities see note 15 31 32 298 334 270 Non-current a Other payables 12 12 a. Non-current other payables comprise an amount held in respect of the Groups gaming machine VAT claim.
A decision was released during 2010 in respect of Rank plcs gaming claim and this ruling fell in the taxpayers favour.
As a result, the Group was able to further pursue its own gaming claim which was submitted in April 2006.
HMRC agreed to make a repayment of the existing claim, subject to the Group providing a guarantee to HMRC that, in the event that the existing decision is overturned in a higher court, the amount will be repayable in full.
HMRC lodged an appeal with the European Court of Justice ECJ in 2010 in respect of Rank plcs decision.
The ECJ released its decision on the Rank plc case on 11 November 2011.
The outcome is still uncertain as HMRC are able to refer certain items back to the UK courts if they choose to.
The Group continues to hold the repayment amount of 12m including interest and net of associated fees as a liability until there is more certainty as to the outcome of this appeal.
Current trade and other payables are non-interest bearing.
Borrowings 2011 2010 Current Non-current Current Non-current liabilities liabilities Total liabilities liabilities Total m m m m m m a, b Securitised debt 49 2,197 2,246 51 2,238 2,289 b Other borrowings 85 170 255 Finance leases note 29 1 1 Total borrowings 49 2,197 2,246 136 2,409 2,545 a.
Further details of the assets pledged as security against the securitised debt are given on page 58. b.
Stated net of deferred issue costs.
2011 2010 2009 m m m a Analysis by year of repayment Due within one year or on demand 49 136 59 Due between one and two years 729 235 540 Due between two and five years 182 826 1,094 Due after five years 1,286 1,348 1,026 Total borrowings 2,246 2,545 2,719 a.
The Group has an unconditional right to continue to hold the individual loan note tranches through to their final maturity dates the analysis of loan notes below includes the principal repayment periods.
The analysis by year of repayment in respect of the Groups A4, AB, C2 and D1 securitised loan notes is calculated on the basis that they are refinanced on the margin step-up dates, consistent with the requirements of IFRS 7.
Securitised debt On 13 November 2003, a Group company, Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc, issued 1,900m of secured loan notes in connection with the securitisation of the majority of the Groups UK pub restaurants business owned by Mitchells & Butlers Retail Ltd.
The funds raised were mainly used to repay existing bank borrowings of 1,243m, pay issue costs of 23m and return 501m to shareholders by way of a special dividend.
On 15 September 2006 Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc completed the issue of 655m of further secured loan notes in the form of the A4, AB, C2 and D1 loan notes as detailed below.
These were issued under substantially the same terms as the original securitisation in November 2003.
The funds raised were mainly used to return 486m to shareholders by way of a special dividend and to provide long-term funding for the Whitbread pub restaurant sites acquired.
As part of the issue, the original A1 and A3 loan note tranches were repaid and reissued as A1N and A3N loan notes to take advantage of market rates.
The Group has an unconditional right to continue to hold the individual note tranches through to their final maturity dates.
In accordance with IFRS 7 however, the expected remaining weighted average life WAL is based on the amortisation profile of the individual note tranches.
The A4, AB, C2 and D1 loan notes are currently assumed to be refinanced at their step-up dates.
The margin step-up dates as at 24 September 2011 are set out below.
After the effect of interest rate swaps.
c. Includes the impact of 20 m 2010 15 m in respect of the currency swaps.
The notes are secured on the majority of the Groups property and future income streams therefrom.
All of the floating rate notes are hedged using interest rate swaps which fix the interest rate payable.
Interest and margin is payable on the floating rate notes as follows: Tranche Interest Margin Margin step-up date Post step-up margin A1N 3 month LIBOR 0.45% A3N 3 month $ LIBOR 0.45% A4 3 month LIBOR 0.23% September 2013 0.58% AB 3 month LIBOR 0.24% September 2013 0.60% C2 3 month LIBOR 0.75% September 2013 1.88% D1 3 month LIBOR 0.85% September 2013 2.13% On 15 December 2010 the margin on the A1N and A3N notes stepped up from 0.18% to the current margin of 0.45%.
The overall cash interest rate payable on the loan notes is 5.8% 2010 5.8% after taking account of interest rate hedging and the cost of the provision of a financial guarantee provided by Ambac in respect of the Class A and AB notes.
The securitisation is governed by various covenants, warranties and events of default, many of which apply to Mitchells & Butlers Retail Ltd, the Groups main operating subsidiary.
These include covenants regarding the maintenance and disposal of securitised properties and restrictions on its ability to move cash, by way of dividends for example, to other Group companies.
At 24 September 2011, Mitchells & Butlers Retail Ltd had cash and cash equivalents of 135m 2010 214m which were governed by the covenants associated with the securitisation.
Of this amount 44m 2010 128m, representing disposal proceeds, was held on deposit in an account over which there are a number of restrictions.
The use of this cash requires the approval of the securitisation trustee and may only be used for certain specified purposes such as capital enhancement expenditure and business acquisitions.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 61 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 18.
Borrowings continued The carrying value of the securitised debt in the Group balance sheet at 24 September 2011 is analysed as follows: 2011 2010 m m Principal outstanding at beginning of period 2,299 2,342 Principal repaid during the period 49 46 Exchange on translation of dollar loan notes 5 3 Principal outstanding at end of period 2,255 2,299 Deferred issue costs 12 13 Accrued interest 3 3 Carrying value at end of period 2,246 2,289 At 24 September 2011 the Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities: 2011 2010 a Undrawn committed borrowing facilities m m Unutilised facilities expire: Within one year Between two and five years 167 167 a.
The Group holds an undrawn 295m 2010 295m liquidity facility against the securitised arrangements, sized to cover 18 months debt service, which is not available for any other purpose.
This is not included in the table above.
This facility will expire on 3 September 2012.
Medium-term borrowing facilities On 24 July 2008 the Group entered into a three year 600m term and revolving credit facility the medium-term facility expiring on 30 November 2011, including a 300m revolving credit facility, for general business purposes which incurs interest at LIBOR plus a margin.
The facility was set at 600m initially but reduced to 550m in December 2008.
On 20 May 2009 the facility was amended to provide an additional 75m.
At the same time, 75m of the facility originally due for payment on 31 December 2009 was prepaid.
On 30 September 2009 a further 75m of the facility was prepaid and a further 50m on 2 March 2010, reducing the outstanding facility to 425m.
The facility was repaid and subsequently cancelled on 15 February 2011 following the transfer of assets into the securitised estate and subsequent release of funds.
Financial instruments Financial risk management Financial risk management is the responsibility of the Groups Treasury function.
The Groups Treasury function is governed by a Board Treasury Policy Statement which details the key objectives and policies for the Groups treasury management.
The Treasury Committee ensures that the Treasury Policy is adhered to, monitors its operation and agrees appropriate strategies for recommendation to the Board.
The Treasury Policy Statement is reviewed at least annually, with recommendations for change made to the Board, as appropriate.
The Group Treasury function is operated as a cost centre and is the only area of the business permitted to transact treasury deals.
It must also be consulted on other related matters such as the provision of guarantees or the financial implications of contract terms.
An explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives and strategies is set out below.
The main financial risks which impact the Group result from funding and liquidity risk, credit risk, capital risk and market risk, principally as a result of changes in interest and currency rates.
These are discussed further below.
Derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate and foreign currency swaps, are used to manage market risk.
Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading or speculative purposes.
Funding and liquidity risk In order to ensure that the Groups long-term funding strategy is aligned with its strategic objectives, the Treasury Committee regularly assesses the maturity profile of the Groups debt, alongside the prevailing financial projections.
This enables it to ensure that funding levels are appropriate to support the Groups plans.
The current funding arrangements of the Group consist of the securitised notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc and associated liquidity facility.
The terms of the securitisation contain a number of financial covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored by Group Treasury.
The Group prepares a rolling daily cash forecast covering a six week period and an annual cash forecast by period.
These forecasts are reviewed on a daily basis and used to manage the investment and borrowing requirements of the Group.
A combination of cash pooling and zero balancing agreements are in place to ensure the optimum liquidity position is maintained.
The Group maintains sufficient cash balances or committed facilities outside the securitisation to ensure that it can meet its medium-term anticipated cash flow requirements.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 62 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The maturity table below details the contractual, undiscounted cash flows both principal and interest for the Groups financial liabilities after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the analysis is calculated on the assumption that the Groups A4, AB, C2 and D1 securitised loan notes are refinanced on the margin step-up dates, however, the Group has an unconditional right to continue to hold individual loan note tranches through to their final maturity dates.
Trade and other payables are excluded from the table: these are short-term and are disclosed in note 17.
Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 More than 5 1 year years years years years years Total m m m m m m m 24 September 2011 Fixed rate: a Securitised debt 180 834 145 145 144 1,904 3,352 25 September 2010 Fixed rate: a Securitised debt 179 179 833 144 144 2,045 3,524 Finance leases 1 1 Floating rate: Other borrowings 52 214 266 a.
Includes the impact of the cash flow hedges.
Credit risk The Group Treasury function enters into contracts with third parties in respect of derivative financial instruments for risk management purposes and the investment of surplus funds.
These activities expose the Group to credit risk against the counterparties.
To mitigate this exposure, Group Treasury operates policies that restrict the investment of surplus funds and the entering into of derivative transactions to counterparties that have a minimum credit rating of A long-term and A1 P1 short-term.
Counterparties may also be required to post collateral with the Group, where their credit rating falls below a predetermined level.
An amount of 31m 2010 32m of collateral was posted by a swap provider within the securitisation as at 24 September 2011.
The amount that can be invested or transacted at various ratings levels is restricted under the policy.
To minimise credit risk exposure against individual counterparties, investments and derivative transactions are entered into with a range of counterparties.
The Group Treasury function reviews credit ratings, as published by Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch Ratings, current exposure levels and the maximum permitted exposure at given credit ratings, for each counterparty on a daily basis.
Any exceptions are required to be formally reported to the Treasury Committee on a four weekly basis.
Included in other receivables are amounts due from certain Group suppliers.
At the period end and included in trade and other payables are amounts due to some of these suppliers.
This reduces the Groups credit exposure.
The Groups credit exposure as at 24 September 2011 was: 2011 2010 m m Bank & cash 306 227 Other cash deposits 50 Trade receivables 1 1 a Other receivables 20 44 b Derivatives 18 11 a.
The Group may have a right of offset against certain amounts held within this balance.
As disclosed in note 15 and 17, the Group has 31m 2010 32m of cash collateral which is not included in this balance.
Capital management The Groups capital base is comprised of its net debt analysed in note 26 plus total equity disclosed on the face of the Group balance sheet.
The objective is to maintain a capital base which is sufficiently strong to support the ongoing development of the business as a going concern, including the amenity and cash flow generation of the pub estate.
By keeping debt see also Funding and liquidity risk above and headroom against its debt facilities at an appropriate level, the Group ensures that it maintains a strong credit position, whilst maximising value for shareholders and adhering to its covenants and other restrictions associated with its debt see page 61 note 18.
In managing its capital structure, from time to time the Group may realise value from non-core assets, buy back or issue new shares, initiate and vary its dividend payments and seek to vary or accelerate debt repayments.
The Groups policy is to ensure that the maturity of its debt profile supports its strategic objectives.
The Board considers the latest covenant compliance, headroom projections and projected Balance Sheet positions at each of its meetings, based on the advice of the Treasury Committee which meets on a four weekly basis.
The Treasury Committee is chaired by the Group Treasurer and monitors Treasury performance and compliance with Board-approved policies.
The Group Finance Director is also a member of the Committee.
Total capital at 24 September 2011 is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Net debt see note 26 1,870 2,302 2,600 Total equity 1,092 894 997 Total capital 2,962 3,196 3,597 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 63 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 19.
Financial instruments continued Market risk The Group is exposed to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of its financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises foreign currency and interest rate risk.
Foreign currency risk The Group faces currency risk in two main areas: US$406.87m of Class A3N floating rate notes which form part of the securitised debt see note 18.
At issuance of the notes, the Group entered into a cross currency interest rate swap to manage the foreign currency exposure resulting from both the US$ principal and initial interest elements of the notes.
Further to the step up on the A3N notes on 15 December 2010, the Group has additional foreign currency exposure as a result of the increase in US$ interest payable.
A movement of 10% in the US$ exchange rate would have 0m 2010 0m impact on the reported Group profit.
The Group has no significant profit and loss exposure as a result of retranslating monetary assets and liabilities at different exchange rates.
As the Group is predominantly UK based and acquires the majority of its supplies in sterling, it has no significant direct currency exposure from its operations.
Interest rate risk The Group has a mixture of fixed and floating interest rate debt instruments and manages the variability in cash flows resulting from changes in interest rates by using derivative financial instruments.
Where the necessary criteria are met, the Group minimises the volatility in its financial statements through the adoption of the hedge accounting provisions permitted under IAS 39.
The interest rate exposure resulting from the Groups 2.2bn securitisation is largely fixed, either as a result of the notes themselves being issued at fixed interest rates, or through a combination of floating rate notes against which effective interest rate swaps are held, which are eligible for hedge accounting.
The Groups medium-term facility incurred floating rate interest based on LIBOR.
Drawings against this facility were partially hedged using interest rate swaps, with a notional principal amount of 150m see Cash flow hedges unsecured borrowings on page 65.
These swaps qualified for hedge accounting and movements in their mark-to-market values were recognised directly in equity, with the cumulative gain or loss transferred from equity and recognised in the income statement as the hedged elements of the facility were recognised against profit or loss.
The swaps matured on 23 December 2010 and were not replaced.
The medium-term facility was repaid and subsequently cancelled on 15 February 2011.
The Groups sensitivity to a 100 basis point movement in interest rates is detailed below: 2011 2010 Sensitivity to 100bps increase in interest rates m m m a Interest income 3 1 b Interest expense 1 2 Profit loss impact 2 1 c Derivative financial instruments fair values 126 128 Total equity 128 127 a.
Represents interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents these are defined in note 26. b. T he element of interest expense which is not matched by payments and receipts under cash flow hedges see below which would otherwise offset the interest rate exposure of the Group.
c. The impact on total equity from movements in the fair value of cash flow hedges see below.
Derivative financial instruments Cash flow hedges Changes in cash flow hedge fair values are recognised directly in the hedging reserve in equity to the extent that the hedges are effective.
The cash flow hedges detailed below have been assessed as being highly effective during the financial period and are expected to remain highly effective over the remaining contract lives.
During the period a loss of 118m 2010 131m loss on cash flow hedges was recognised directly in equity.
A loss of 37m 2010 47m loss was recycled from equity and included in the Group income statement for the period.
Cash flow hedges securitised borrowings At 24 September 2011, the Group held 10 2010 10 interest rate swap contracts with a nominal value of 1,092m 2010 1,105m, designated as a hedge of the cash flow interest rate risk of 1,092m 2010 1,105m of the Groups floating rate borrowings, comprising the A1N, A3N, A4, AB, C2 and D1 loan notes.
The cash flows occur quarterly, receiving a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR and paying a fixed rate of 4.8904% 2010 4.8938%.
The contract maturity dates match those of the hedged item.
The 10 interest rate swaps above are held on the balance sheet at fair market value, which is a liability of 278 m 2010 195 m liability.
At 24 September 2011 the Group held one 2010 one cross currency interest rate swap contract, with a nominal value of 243m 2010 250m, designated as a hedge of the cash flow interest rate and currency risk of the Groups A3N floating rate $406.87m borrowings.
The cross currency interest rate swap is held on the balance sheet at a fair value asset of 17m 2010 10m asset.
The cash flows occur quarterly, receiving a floating rate of interest based on US$ LIBOR and paying a fixed rate, in sterling, of 5.4445% 2010 5.4445%.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 64 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Cash flow hedges unsecured borrowings Between 11 and 12 June 2009 the Group entered into short dated interest rate swaps with a notional principal of 150m and a maturity date of 23 December 2010, which swap the LIBOR based floating interest rate on its medium-term financing facility into a fixed rate of 1.9788%.
The swaps, which limit the Groups exposure to short term fluctuations in the LIBOR element of drawings against the facility, meet the criteria for hedge accounting and are therefore accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The cash flows on the swaps are settled quarterly.
These instruments matured on 23 December 2010 and were not replaced.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments are reflected on the balance sheet as follows.
These values were measured at 24 September 2011 and may be subject to material movements in the period subsequent to the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments Fair value Non-current Current Current Non-current assets assets liabilities liabilities Total m m m m m 24 September 2011 Cash flow hedges: Interest rate swaps 43 235 278 Cross currency swap 18 1 17 Total 18 44 235 261 25 September 2010 11 47 149 185 26 September 2009 6 50 60 104 Fair values Fair values of financial instruments are disclosed below: 2011 2010 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m a Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Cash and cash equivalents 306 306 228 228 Other cash deposits 50 50 Other borrowings 255 255 Securitised debt excluding interest rate and currency swaps 2,246 1,999 2,289 2,090 Finance leases 1 1 Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency profile: Interest rate swaps: liability 278 278 195 195 b Currency swaps 17 17 10 10 2,151 1,904 2,502 2,303 a.
Excludes working capital items such as trade receivables and payables as their carrying amount is considered to approximate to their fair value.
Includes the element of the fair value of currency swaps reported within net debt see note 26.
All financial instruments are held at amortised cost, with the exception of the swaps, which are held at fair value.
The fair value and carrying value of financial assets and liabilities by category is as follows: 2011 2010 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Cash 356 356 228 228 Borrowings 2,246 1,999 2,544 2,345 Derivative financial instruments 261 261 185 185 Finance leases 1 1 Trade and other receivables 21 21 45 45 Trade and other payables 201 201 222 222 2,331 2,084 2,679 2,480 The various tranches of the securitised debt have been valued using period end quoted offer prices.
As the securitised debt is traded on an active market, the market value represents the fair value of this debt.
The fair value of interest rate and currency swaps is the estimated amount which the Group could expect to pay or receive on termination of the agreements.
These amounts are based on quotations from counterparties which approximate to their fair market value and take into consideration interest and exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Other financial assets and liabilities are either short-term in nature or book values approximate to fair values.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 65 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 19.
Financial instruments continued Fair value of financial instruments The table below sets out the valuation basis of financial instruments held at fair value by the Group at 24 September 2011. a b c Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m 24 September 2011 Financial assets: Currency swaps 17 17 Financial liabilities: Interest rate swaps 278 278 a.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
b. L evel 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
c. Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
During the period ended 24 September 2011 there were no transfers between levels 1, 2 or 3 fair value measurement categories.
Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the Group balance sheet and Group income statement is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 restated m m m Deferred tax liability: Accelerated capital allowances 56 75 72 Rolled over and held over gains 177 202 202 Unrealised gains on revaluations 188 179 258 Depreciated non-qualifying assets 8 8 10 Total deferred tax liability 429 464 542 Deferred tax asset: Retirement benefit obligations note 7 9 39 36 Share-based payments 5 7 5 Derivative financial instruments 69 54 32 Short-term temporary differences 1 3 Non-trade tax losses 5 11 Total deferred tax asset 83 106 87 Deferred tax in the income statement: Accelerated capital allowances 18 3 21 Retirement benefit obligations 5 8 19 Rolled over and held over gains 15 1 5 Share-based payments 1 Short-term temporary differences 1 2 2 Depreciated non-qualifying assets 1 Derivative financial instruments 11 Unrealised losses on revaluations 1 76 28 Non-trade tax losses 5 6 15 Total deferred tax credit in the income statement note 10 22 58 6 Unrecognised tax losses At the balance sheet date the Group has unused losses of 12m 2010 13m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised on tax losses with a value of 3m 2010 4m because it is not certain that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefit.
These tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 66 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 21.
Provisions Property Leases m At 26 September 2009 Additions 6 Utilised At 25 September 2010 6 Additions 1 Utilised 1 At 24 September 2011 6 Onerous property provisions represent the expected unavoidable losses on onerous and vacant property leases and comprises the lower of the net rent payable or the operating loss after rental costs.
The provision is calculated on a site by site basis, with an estimated period of future losses ranging from three to five years.
Called up share capital 2011 2010 Number of shares m Number of shares m Authorised 13 Ordinary shares of 8 24p each 1,181,130,148 131 1,181,130,148 101 Allotted, called up and fully paid 13 Ordinary shares of 8 24p each: At start of the financial period 408,953,036 35 407,404,004 35 Share capital issued 514,382 1,549,032 At end of the financial period 409,467,418 35 408,953,036 35 All of the ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights and rights to receive ordinary and special dividends.
There are no restrictions on the rights to transfer shares.
Details of options granted since separation, under the Groups share schemes, are contained in note 6.
Employee share trusts The Company has established two employee share trusts: Share Incentive Plan SIP Trust The SIP Trust was established in 2003 to purchase shares on behalf of employees participating in the Companys SIP.
Under this scheme, eligible employees are awarded free shares which are normally held in trust for a holding period of at least three years.
After five years the shares may be transferred to or sold by the employee free of income tax and National Insurance contributions.
The SIP Trust buys the shares in the market or subscribes for newly issued shares with funds provided by the Company.
During the holding period, dividends are paid directly to the participating employees.
At 24 September 2011, the trustees, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited, held 1,414,689 2010 1,423,682 shares in the Company.
Of these shares, 269,162 2010 282,835 shares are unconditionally available to employees, 305,570 2010 141,100 shares have been conditionally awarded to employees, 813,867 2010 980,974 shares have been awarded to employees but are still required to be held within the SIP Trust and the remaining 26,090 2010 18,773 shares are unallocated.
Employee Benefit Trust EBT The EBT was established in 2003 in order to satisfy the exercise or vesting of existing and future share options and awards under the ESOP, PRSP, STDIP, Sharesave Plan and the Rolled-over options.
The EBT purchases shares in the market or subscribes for newly issued shares, from time to time, using funds provided by the Company, based on expectations of future requirements.
Dividends are waived by the EBT.
At 24 September 2011, the trustees, Sanne Trust Company Limited, were holding 1,125,299 2010 1,992,438 shares in the Company.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 67 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 24.
Equity reserves Information relates to the Group statement of changes in equity on page 40.
The Groups main operating subsidiary, Mitchells & Butlers Retail Limited, had retained earnings under UK GAAP of 200m at 24 September 2011 2010 76m.
Its ability to distribute these reserves by way of dividends is restricted by the securitisation covenants see note 18.
Share premium account The share premium account represents amounts received in excess of the nominal value of shares on issue of new shares.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve movement arose on the repurchase and cancellation by the Company of ordinary shares during prior periods.
Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve represents the unrealised gain generated on revaluation of the property estate with effect from 29 September 2007.
It comprises the excess of the fair value of the estate over deemed cost, net of related deferred taxation.
Own shares held Own shares held by the Group represent the shares in the Company held in treasury treasury shares and by the employee share trusts.
During the financial period, there were no transactions of shares from treasury to employees and no treasury shares were acquired.
The 429 shares held in treasury at 24 September 2011 had a market value of 1.1k 25 September 2010 429 shares held had a market value of 1.3k.
The aggregate nominal value of the treasury shares held at 24 September 2011 was 37 2010 37.
During the financial period, the employee share trusts acquired nil 2010 acquired 2,032,000 and subscribed for 255,167 2010 subscribed for 593,860 shares at a cost of 0.0m 2010 6.3m, released 1,131,299 2010 539,340 shares to employees on the exercise of options and other share awards for a total consideration of 1.2m 2010 0.0m.
The 2,539,988 shares held by the trusts at 24 September 2011 had a market value of 6.4m 25 September 2010 3,416,120 shares held had a market value of 10.3m.
Further details regarding the employee share trusts are given in note 23.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged future cash flows.
Translation reserve The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Goodwill Goodwill eliminated against reserves at 24 September 2011 was 50m 2010 50m.
This arose in respect of acquisitions completed prior to 30 September 1998.
Cash flow from operations 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks m m Operating profit 275 33 Add back: non-cash operating exceptional items 19 289 Operating profit before exceptional items 294 322 Add back: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 108 124 Amortisation of intangibles computer software 2 2 Amortisation of lease premiums 1 Cost charged in respect of share-based payments 6 4 Defined benefit pension cost less regular cash contributions 1 4 Operating cash flow before exceptional items, movements in working capital and additional pension contributions 409 449 Movements in working capital and pension contributions: Decrease in inventories 9 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 3 4 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 36 29 Increase in provisions 6 Additional pension contributions note 7 40 32 Cash flow from operations 336 457 Mitchells & Butlers plc 68 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 26.
Analysis of net debt 2011 2010 2009 m m m Cash and cash equivalents see below 306 228 105 Cash collateral deposits see below 2 Other cash deposits see below 50 Securitised debt note 18 2,246 2,289 2,331 Other borrowings note 18 255 386 a Derivatives hedging balance sheet debt note 18 20 15 12 Finance leases note 18 1 2 1,870 2,302 2,600 a.
Represents the element of the fair value of currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the Groups US dollar denominated loan notes see note 18.
This amount is disclosed separately to remove the impact of exchange movements which are included in the securitised debt amount.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, including overnight deposits, of 259m 2010 226m, cash deposits with an original maturity of three months or less of 47m 2010 1m and cash transferred to assets held for sale of nil 2010 1m.
Cash collateral deposits Cash collateral deposits represent monies that were held in escrow against the MABETUS pension scheme arrangements that were repaid during the prior period.
Other cash deposits Other cash deposits at 24 September 2011 comprise 50m 2010 nil, 2009 nil of cash at bank with an original maturity of three months or more.
Movement in net debt 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks m m Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 78 123 Add back cash flows in respect of other components of net debt: Transfers to other cash deposits 50 Transfers from cash collateral deposits 2 Repayment of principal in respect of securitised debt 49 46 Repayment of principal in respect of other borrowings 259 136 Decrease in net debt arising from cash flows Net cash flow per note 28 436 303 Capitalised debt issue costs net of accrued interest 4 5 Decrease in net debt 432 298 Opening net debt 2,302 2,600 Closing net debt 1,870 2,302 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 69 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 28.
Net cash flow 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks m m Operating profit before exceptional items 294 322 Depreciation and amortisation 110 127 a EBITDA before exceptional items 404 449 Working capital movement 33 40 Other non-cash items 5 Additional pension contributions note 7 40 32 Cash flow from operations 336 457 b Net capital expenditure 252 8 Cash flow from operations after net capital 588 449 Interest paid 137 147 Interest received 3 Tax paid 20 8 VAT refund received including interest 12 Issue of ordinary share capital 1 3 Purchase of own shares 6 Proceeds on release of own shares 1 Net cash flow note 27 436 303 a.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
Comprises purchases of property, plant and equipment, acquisitions of businesses and intangibles less proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment.
Financial commitments Leases The vast majority of the Groups leases are industry standard UK pub or commercial property leases which provide for periodic rent reviews to open market value and enjoy statutory rights to renewal on expiry.
They generally do not contain conditions relating to rent escalation, rights to purchase, concessions, residual values or other material provisions of an unusual nature.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessee Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Due within one year 32 36 Between one and five years 123 136 After five years 451 483 606 655 The future minimum rentals expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases as at 24 September 2011 amounted to 22m 2010 20m.
Operating lease receivables Group as lessor Total future minimum lease receipts under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Due within one year 5 6 Between one and five years 12 20 After five years 14 24 31 50 Mitchells & Butlers plc 70 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Lease income recognised in the year was as follows: 2011 2010 52 weeks 52 weeks m m Standard lease income 9 9 Finance lease commitments Group as lessee Total future minimum lease payments due under finance leases are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Due within one year Between one and five years 1 1 Due to the timing of the expiry of the finance lease commitments, there is no material difference between the total future minimum lease payments and their present value.
Finance leases relate to various items of fixtures, fittings and equipment see note 13.
Capital commitments 2011 2010 m m Contracts placed for expenditure on property, plant and equipment not provided for in the financial statements 24 20 30.
Acquisitions Acquisitions in the period The following purchases have been accounted for as acquisitions.
None of the businesses acquired made a material contribution to consolidated revenue and profit in the period from their acquisition to 24 September 2011, nor would they have done in the period ended 24 September 2011 if they had been acquired on 26 September 2010.
Ha Ha Bar & Grill Limited HHBG On 3 October 2010, the Group acquired all of the shares in HHBG, from Bay Restaurant Group Limited.
Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of HHBG primarily through the benefits gained from combining HHBGs sites with the Groups existing portfolio of brands and related sites.
This also supports the Groups strategy of expanding its food-led operations.
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition of HHBG were as follows: Recognised value m Property, plant and equipment 11 Deferred taxation 1 Net current assets 1 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 13 Goodwill on acquisition 7 20 Cash consideration paid on completion 3 Repayment of debt on acquisition 17 20 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 71 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 continued 30.
Acquisitions continued Intertain Dining Limited IDL On 10 September 2011, the Group acquired all of the shares in IDL, from Intertain Limited.
At the period end none of the acquired sites had been converted into one of the Groups existing brand formats, however, a phased conversion programme will commence during the new financial period.
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition of IDL were as follows: Recognised value m Leasehold land and buildings 3 Fixtures, fittings and equipment, other assets and liabilities 1 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 4 Cash consideration paid on completion 4 31.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Overview and Financial review on pages 1 to 11.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also described within the review.
In addition, note 19 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in note 18 to the financial statements, the Groups financing is based upon securitised debt.
The Groups forecasts and projections updated following the completion of the disposal of 333 pubs to Stonegate for a consideration of 363m and, taking account of anticipated trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and so they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Contingent assets and liabilities The Group has given indemnities in respect of the disposal of certain companies previously within the Six Continents group.
It is the view of the Directors that such indemnities are not expected to result in financial loss to the Group.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 72 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 33.
Related party disclosures There are no transactions with related parties requiring disclosure under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures during either the current year or the previous year.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Mitchells & Butlers plc is the beneficial owner of all of the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiary undertakings, of the following principal operating companies: Country of Country of Name of subsidiary incorporation operation Nature of business Mitchells & Butlers Retail Ltd England and Wales United Kingdom Leisure retailing Mitchells & Butlers Retail No 2 Ltd England and Wales United Kingdom Leisure retailing Mitchells & Butlers Property Ltd England and Wales United Kingdom Property management Mitchells & Butlers Leisure Retail Ltd England and Wales United Kingdom Service company Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc England and Wales United Kingdom Finance company a Mitchells & Butlers Germany GmbH Germany Germany Leisure retailing Standard Commercial Property Developments Ltd England and Wales United Kingdom Property development a.
Shares held directly by Mitchells & Butlers plc.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return of Mitchells & Butlers plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group: 2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits 3 4 Termination payments 1 Post-employment benefits 1 Share-based payments 2 1 6 6 Only employees of Mitchells & Butlers plc who are members of the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee of Mitchells & Butlers plc are deemed to be key management personnel.
It is the Board who have responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Movements in share options held by the employees of Mitchells & Butlers plc are summarised in note 4 of the parent company accounts.
Compensation of Non-Executive Directors, which is detailed in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 30 to 31, includes information relating to salaries received during the current period in advance of services to be provided in the next period.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 73
