Glossary Amenity Outlet employment ratio Design, dcor, furniture and facilities that Outlet employment costs divided by sales, contribute to the environment and expressed as a percentage.
Red Book valuation AWT Average Weekly Take A valuation conducted in compliance with the The average sales per site per week, valuation standards of the Royal Institution of calculated as total sales divided by the Chartered Surveyors.
average number of sites trading during the period divided by the number of weeks Retained estate in the period.
The Retained estate comprises the ongoing business and is stated before exceptional Cash flow from operations items and other adjustments.
It excludes the Net cash flow resulting directly from major disposals of 333 non-core pubs, lodges regular operations.
and Hollywood Bowl, and in addition SCPD.
EBIT Returns on expansionary capital Earnings before interest and tax.
Incremental return is the growth in annual site EBITDA expressed as a percentage of EBITDA the associated capital investment for sites Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation having received expansionary investment and amortisation.
over the last two financial years.
For sites which have not been trading for a full 12 EBITDAR months, incremental return is estimated Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, based on an annualisation of actual postamortisation and rent.
Expansionary capital is capital invested to increase the trading area Internal Rent of a site or to materially change the customer A notional rent charge made against freehold offer.
Expansionary capital represents properties to align internal performance investment over and above the maintenance measurement across freehold and investment cycle for a site.
Same outlet like-for-like sales growth National Minimum Wage The sales this year compared to the sales in The minimum amount an employer must pay the previous year of all UK managed sites its employees as defined by law.
that were trading in the two periods being compared, expressed as a percentage.
Off-trade Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell SCPD alcohol for consumption off the premises.
Standard Commercial Property Developments Limited, a property company holding a small ONS residual land bank.
Securitisation On-trade A means of raising finance secured on a Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell particular group of assets and the associated alcohol for consumption on the premises cash flows derived from those assets.
e. g. pubs, restaurants, nightclubs, clubs.
Operating profit Earnings before interest and tax.
Other operations Other operations include bowl and lodge disposals that completed in FY 2010 as well as the sites disposed to Stonegate in November 2010 and SCPD.
Design and production CarnegieOrr Print Royle Print The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources Mitchells & Butlers plc 84 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Mitchells & Butlers online Mitchells & Butlers comprehensive website gives you fast, Downloadable Annual report and accounts direct access to a wide range of Company information.
Latest investor news and press releases Brand news and offers Responsibility policies and review Find a local pub and restaurant Sign up for latest news To find out more go to www.
com Our brands All of our popular brands have their own websites, helping Sizzling Pubs Premium Country Dining Group our customers to find the information they need straightaway.
com findapub Latest food and drink menus, news and offers, email newsletters Vintage Inns ONeills and details of new openings are all available.
fide Ember All Bar One www.
co. uk Village Pub & Kitchen Toby Carvery www.
co. uk Miller & Carter Crown Carveries www.
co. uk Browns Metro Professionals www.
com findapub Innkeepers Lodge Nicholsons www.
co. uk Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Mitchells & Butlers plc 27 Fleet Street Birmingham B3 1JP Tel: 44 0 121 498 4000 Fax: 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
