MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Integrated solutions: Ringing the changes for Vodafone, across the UK and Ireland.
Our relationship with Vodafone started with a technical facilities management contract that came into MITIE through our acquisition n of Dalkia FM in 2009.
This had a base contract value of 6m per annum and lastyear, Vodafone moved to a fully integrated FM model across theUKand Ireland, with a base value of 16m.
Energy management is an importantpart of what we do for Vodafone.
One of our goals is to helpthem meet their target of a50%carbon reduction by 2020.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We have expanded our work forVodafone signicantly, bringingtogether our soft FM capabilities withthe technical facilities and energy management skills thatwereenhanced through ouracquisition of Dalkia FM.
16 David Richards Transition Director 17 Recent achievements and developments Vodafone wanted a fully-integrated 16m FM model to drive efficiencies with Annual contracted revenues its suppliers and FM team.
We offered: One seamless delivery model Intelligent information systems and KPIs to achieve cost efficiencies 5 Ten core service commitments Year contract with two one-year extension periods A joint board to hold innovation forums Overview of services provided This is a significant contract for MITIE We are providing total facilities and as it reinforces the strategic rationale energy management for Vodafone thatunderpinned the acquisition of Not only do we provide Vodafone across the UK and Ireland.
It also demonstrates how we with an unmatched breadth of covers all properties, including are working with our clients to introduce services we also pride ourselves on commercial offices, the retail portfolio, further innovation and efficiencies into consistent quality and on our ability tomeet our clients needs at multiple data centres, mobile telephone their organisations by increasing the sites across the UK and Ireland.
exchanges, warehouses and call centres.
scaleand scope of outsourced services.
We are looking forward to building upon Maintenance this relationship with Vodafone and Security supporting its property strategy in the Cleaning, landscaping and pest control years to come.
Front of house services Supply chain management of a range of other services Accounts Governance Business review Overview
