MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Orbit has an ambition of building Our expanded contract is a tribute brighter futures for people and to the outstanding results we already communities which we are deliver for Orbit.
We are committed supporting with our long-term to continuing to deliver a first-class commitment to investing service to both Orbit and its residents.
Sustainable solutions: Bringing home the benetstowin additional business.
Having successfully worked with Orbit South to provide reactive  stock, we were the natural choice whenthey decidedtoextend the contract across more regions and services.
John Lewthwaite Regional Manager, Social Housing MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 24 25 orb b b bt ORBIT SOUTH Recent achievements and developments Not only was MITIE the choice of 110m OrbitSouth and East, we were also the Partnering contract over 10 years favoured option for the organisations residents too.
Orbit residents were Overview of services provided involved in the selection process, and Since 2007, EPS Ltd, which we acquired wanted a contractor who was going to in2009, held a contract with Orbit South deliver a great service and also provide to provide reactive housing repairs in real value for money.
In addition to our theBexley, Kent and Surrey areas.
strong track record, we were able to Orbitsvision is to develop long-term offerresidents acommunity investment partnerships.
We were recently awarded package as part of the contract.
additional work for Orbit South, as well 110,000 community investment annually asa new contract for Orbit East.
Typically includes refurbishment projects, 110m partnering contract for ten years charitable work, support for community initiatives with an optional five-year extension We will run events such as DIY workshops We will deliver reactive repairs, voids and training days and planned improvement works One apprentice employed for every The agreement covers 14,000 homes across 1mturnover East Anglia, London and the South East We will create training opportunities and long term employment for local people Orbits vision for a long-term partnership and the length of the contract means we can continue to improve the service while keeping costs down.
A A A A A A A A A A Acco cco cco cco cco cco cco ccoun un un un un un un nt n nts t ts ts ts ts ts ts ts s s s s s s Go Go Go Go Go Go Go Go Go Go G G G G G G Gove ove ove ove ove ove ove ove ov ov ov ov ov o o o o o o o o o o o o ove five five five five v v v five ern rn rn rn rn rn rn rn rn rn rn rn rn rnan nan nan na na an a a a a a a a a a a a a a an n n n n n n n n nce ce ce ce ce ce ce ce c c c c c c c c ce Business review Overview
