MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We have set up a new-look We have grown our passionate M MIIT TIIE n E no ow w m m man anag a ages es fa faci cilllit itiie es s a a acr cro os ss s integrated facilities service brand team which will work together to the UK and six European countries 1team which will replace MITIE takeservice excellence to a whole Norway, Finland, Sweden, Germany, branding on all services across new level.
France and Poland with 61 sites the contract and is unique to our intotal.
Integrated solutions: Helping Rolls-Royce on its journey as anorganisation.
Our relationship with Rolls-Royce started life as a single-service cleaning contract in East Kilbride, Scotland in 1992.
Over nearly two decades, a lot has changed Chris Franklin Operations Director EMEA 1,000 MITIE employees on the contract We now work closely with RollsRoyce in support ofits global property strategy.
From our single service cleaning contract in 1992, to a national cleaning contract in 1998, to UK-wide facilities management in 2003, we have a proven deliverymodel and long-term relationship.
Thenew pan-European agreement represents asignicant increase in the scope of our existing UKfacilities management contract.
M MI ITI TIE G E Gr ro ou up P p LC A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts s 2 011 We will provide its property management team with asset and estate performance data from MiWorld our integrated management information and data management platform.
18 19 Recent achievements and developments The new contract commenced in 7 61 December 2010 and was awarded on Countries Sites the basis of several key success factors: Cost savings Overview of services provided Our new contract is for integrated Service quality and culture facilities and energy management Consistent and standardised delivery with a exible model of our clients properties in the UK and Continental Europe.
We deliver a large Performance management and continuous improvement range of services including: Space planning, engineering This is our largest contract and its and fabric maintenance expansion both at home and abroad Cleaning, waste, and pest control represents trust in our ability to deliver integrated facilities management across Catering, reception and document management the UK and Europe.
We really value our 18-year relationship with Rolls-Royce Security and emergency services and we are looking forward to supporting Landscaping its property and energy management strategy over the coming years.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview
