Notes to the pro-forma combined and consolidated income statement A.
The Group financial information has been extracted, without adjustment, from the Groups audited combined and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The adjustments to the audited financial statements to re ect the unaudited pro-forma earnings are set out below: Earnings Restated E million 2011 2010 Pro t for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent companies 330 224 Discontinued operation 43 34 Non-controlling interests in discontinued operation - 2 Effect of special items refer note 10 a of the audited annual financial statements 55 21 Tax and non-controlling interests in respect of special items refer note 10 a of the audited annual financial statements 2 7 Underlying earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent companies refer note 1 10 a of the audited annual financial statements 340 206 Pro-forma adjustments 2 Saving of interest paid on net debt at 8.6% per annum 37 Tax at 28% on saving of interest paid 1 2 3 Tax saving by Mondi Limited on intercompany interest received from Mpact 48 Adjusted pro-forma underlying earnings for the financial year 346 219 Notes: 1 Underlying earnings excludes the impact of special items as described in note 5 of the audited annual financial statements.
2 The effect of the recapitalisation of Mpact resulted in a repayment of intercompany debt by Mpact to Mondi Limited on 4 and 5 July 2011 of E76 million.
These proceeds were used to reduce the Groups net debt.
The alternative measure of earnings per share has been adjusted to take the related saving on interest paid into consideration as if the recapitalisation had occurred at the beginning of each period presented.
3 Had the recapitalisation of Mpact occurred at the beginning of each financial year presented, Mondi Limited would no longer have received interest on its intercompany loans to Mpact and thus the tax charge on the interest received would not have been incurred.
C. The revised weighted average number of shares is determined as follows: Number of shares Restated million 2011 2010 Basic number of ordinary shares outstanding 499 508 1 Adjustment for Mondi Limited share consolidation 17 28 2 Adjusted basic number of ordinary shares outstanding 482 480 3 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 65 Diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding after Mondi Limited share consolidation 488 485 Notes: 1 The actual number of shares subject to consolidation was 29 million.
The adjustment re ects the impact on the number of shares as if the share consolidation had occurred with effect from 1 January 2011 and takes treasury shares into consideration.
In 2011, the adjustment re ects the period up to the date of the share consolidation as the share consolidation is included in the basic number of ordinary shares outstanding from 1 August 2011 as set out in note 10 a of the audited annual financial statements.
2 The basic number of ordinary shares outstanding represents the weighted average number in issue for Mondi Limited and Mondi plc for the year, as adjusted for the weighted average number of treasury shares held during the year.
3 Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue, net of treasury shares, on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
D. Based on the adjusted earnings and weighted average number of shares, the alternative, non-IFRS underlying earnings per share gures for continuing operations would be: Restated E cents per share 2011 2010 Underlying earnings per share alternative measure for the financial year Basic EPS alternative measure 71.8 45.6 Diluted EPS alternative measure 70.9 45.2 The directors do not propose to present any pro-forma measures other than those relating to underlying earnings per share and therefore have not presented the effect of the pro-forma adjustments to headline earnings per share or earnings per share measures from continuing and discontinued operations.
162 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
indd 162 036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
indd 162 2 2012 03 02 9:43 AM 012 03 02 9:43 AM Independent reporting accountants assurance report on the pro-forma financial information of the Mondi dual listed structure Mondi Group We have performed our limited assurance engagement in respect of the pro-forma financial information set out on pages 160 to 162 of the combined and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 dated 22 February 2012 issued in connection with presentation of the alternative, non-IFRS measure of earnings per share from continuing operations in the combined and consolidated financial statements of Mondi Group for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The presentation of this alternative, non-IFRS measure is disclosed to provide shareholders with a comparison of the continuing operations of the Group as if the demerger of Mpact Limited and related share consolidation in Mondi Limited had occurred at the beginning of each financial year presented.
The demerger of Mpact Limited and the share consolidation was nalised in August 2011.
The pro-forma financial information has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, for illustrative purposes only, to provide information about how the alternative, non-IFRS measure might affect the reported financial information presented.
Directors responsibility The directors are responsible for the compilation, contents and presentation of the pro-forma financial information contained in the combined consolidated financial statements.
Their responsibility includes determining that: the pro-forma financial information has been properly compiled on the basis stated: the basis is consistent with the accounting policies of the Mondi Group and the pro-forma adjustments are appropriate for the purposes of the pro-forma financial information disclosed in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements.
Reporting accountants responsibility Our responsibility is to express our limited assurance conclusion on the pro-forma financial information included in the combined consolidated financial statements of the Mondi Group.
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements applicable to Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information and the Guide on Pro-Forma Financial Information issued by SAICA.
This standard requires us to obtain suf cient appropriate evidence on which to base our conclusion.
We do not accept any responsibility for any reports previously given by us on any financial information used in the compilation of the pro-forma financial information beyond that owed to those to whom those reports were addressed by us at the dates of their issue.
Sources of information and work performed Our procedures consisted primarily of comparing the unadjusted financial information with the source documents, considering the pro-forma adjustments in light of the accounting policies of the Mondi Group, the issuer, considering the evidence supporting the pro-forma adjustments and discussing the adjusted pro-forma financial information with the directors of the Group in respect of the alternative, non-IFRS measure presented in the combined consolidated results that is a result of the demerger of Mpact completed in August 2011.
In arriving at our conclusion, we have relied upon financial information prepared by the directors of the Mondi Group and other information from various public, financial and industry sources.
While our work performed has involved an analysis of the historical published audited financial information and other information provided to us, our assurance engagement does not constitute an audit or review of any of the underlying financial information conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing or International Standards on Review Engagements and accordingly, we do not express an audit or review opinion.
In a limited assurance engagement, the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement.
We believe our evidence obtained is suf cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion.
Mondi Group 163 5 5036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
indd 163 036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
indd 163 2 2012 03 02 9:43 AM 012 03 02 9:43 AM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent reporting accountants assurance report continued Conclusion Based on our examination of the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that: the pro-forma financial information has not been properly compiled on the basis stated, such basis is inconsistent with the accounting policies of the issuer: and the adjustments are not appropriate for the purposes of the pro-forma financial information as disclosed, in terms of the sections 8.17 and 8.30 of the JSE Listings Requirements.
Consent We consent to the inclusion of this report, which will form part of the combined and consolidated financial statements, to be issued on or about 22 February 2012, in the form and context in which it will appear.
Deloitte & Touche Registered Auditors Per Bronwyn Kilpatrick Partner Sandton 22 February 2012 Building 1, Deloitte Place, The Woodlands Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton, Republic of South Africa National Executive GG Gelink Chief Executive AE Swiegers Chief Operating Of cer GM Pinnock Audit DL Kennedy Risk Advisory & Legal Services NB Kader Tax L Geeringh Consulting L Bam Corporate Finance JK Mazzocco Human Resources CR Beukman Finance TJ Brown Chairman of the Board MJ Comber Deputy Chairman of the Board.
A full list of partners and directors is available on request.
B-BBEE rating: Level 2 contributor in terms of the Accountancy Profession Sector Code Member of Deloitte Touch Tohmatsu Limited 164 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
indd 164 036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
