Pro-forma financial information The directors have in the past presented underlying earnings per share in accordance with IAS33.73 as they believe it provides a useful measure for shareholders to understand the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Underlying earnings represents the earnings of the Group, from continuing operations, excluding special items.
Special items are those non-recurring financial items which the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the combined and consolidated income statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial performance of the Group.
IAS33 requires that the number of shares subject to the Mondi Limited share consolidation be adjusted from the effective date of the consolidation.
This results in a mismatch between the underlying earnings, which excludes the discontinued operation for the full year, and the weighted average number of shares, which only re ects the adjusted number of shares from the date of the share consolidation.
The directors have therefore elected to present an alternative, non-IFRS measure of underlying earnings per share from continuing operations in order to provide shareholders with a comparison of the continuing operations of the Group as if the demerger of Mpact and related Mondi Limited share consolidation had occurred at the beginning of each financial year presented.
This is deemed appropriate as it is the continuing operations of the Group, after taking the impact of the share consolidation into consideration, which will be the basis of the future performance of the Group.
This approach will enable a useful comparison of earnings per share from continuing operations, based on the consolidated shares, for all future periods.
The presentation of such an alternative, non-IFRS measure of earnings per share is classi ed by the JSE Limited JSE as proforma financial information and must comply with section 8 of the JSE Listings Requirements.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information below has been prepared for illustrative purposes to provide information on how the alternative measure of earnings per share adjustments would have impacted on the financial results of the Group.
Because of its nature, the unaudited pro-forma financial information does not re ect the Groups actual results of operations which are set out in the audited financial statements.
The unaudited pro-forma results set out below only re ect an adjustment to the combined and consolidated income statement as the statement of financial position already re ects the demerger of Mpact and no adjustments are deemed necessary.
The statement of comprehensive income is not presented as the pro-forma information relates only to the earnings per share measures, determined from the combined and consolidated income statement.
The directors do not propose to present any pro-forma measures other than those relating to underlying earnings per share and therefore have not presented the effect of the pro-forma adjustments to headline earnings per share or earnings per share measures from continuing and discontinued operations.
The underlying information used in the preparation of the pro-forma financial information has been prepared using the accounting policies set out in note 1 of the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 without adjustment.
The directors of the Group are responsible for the compilation, contents and preparation of the unaudited pro-forma financial information set out below.
Their responsibility includes determining that: the unaudited pro-forma financial information has been properly compiled on the basis stated: the basis is consistent with the accounting policies of the Group: and the pro-forma adjustments are appropriate for the purposes of the unaudited pro-forma financial information disclosed in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements.
Since there are no signi cant subsequent events after 31 December 2011 that would impact these results, no adjustments have been made to the unaudited pro-forma financial information.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information should be read in conjunction with the Deloitte & Touche independent reporting accountants report thereon.
160 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
indd 160 036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
