Previous Page View Contents Next Page Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 73 Annual Report 2011 Shareholder Information Registered office and registered number Enquiring about your shareholding If you want to ask, or need any information, about your shareholding, Moneysupermarket House St Davids Park please contact our registrar see contact details on the left.
Alternatively, if you have internet access, you can access the Ewloe Groups shareholder portal at www.
com Chester CH5 3UZ where you can, amongst other things, view details of your No.
6160943 shareholding, set up or amend a dividend mandate and update your address details.
com Investor relations website The investor relations section of our website, Company Secretary www.
com, provides further information for Darren Drabble anyone interested in the Group.
In addition to the Annual Report and share price, Company announcements including the half year Financial advisors stockbrokers and full year results announcements and associated Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited presentations are also published there.
One Cabot Square London E14 4QJ Dividend mandates If you wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank or building UBS Limited society account, you should contact our registrar see contact 1 Finsbury Avenue details on the left or visit the Groups shareholder portal at London EC2M 2PP www.
com where you can set up or amend a dividend mandate.
This method of payment removes the Auditors risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures KPMG Audit Plc that your account is credited on the due date.
St James Square Manchester M2 6DS Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP You can choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase Solicitors further shares in the Company through a DRIP.
A DRIP application form is available from our registrar see contact details on the left.
Herbert Smith Exchange House Share dealing service Primrose Street You can buy or sell the Companys shares in a simple and convenient London EC2A 2HS way via the Capita share dealing service either online www.
Calls cost 10p per minute plus Addleshaw Goddard network extras.
100 Barbirolli Square Manchester M2 3AB Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell shares in the Company.
Principal bankers Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are Lloyds Banking Group plc recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial City Office advisor authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
PO Box 1000, BX1 1LT Electronic communications Financial PR You can elect to receive shareholder communications The Maitland Consultancy Limited electronically by writing to our registrar, Capita Registrars, Orion House Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham 5 Upper St. Martins Lane Road, Beckenham, BR3 9ZA.
This will save on printing and London distribution costs, creating environmental benefits.
When you WC2H 9EA register, you will be sent a notification to say when shareholder communications are available on our website and you will be Registrar provided with a link to that information.
Capita Registrars The Registry Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements 34 Beckenham Road This Annual Report includes statements that are forward looking in Beckenham nature.
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors which may Kent BR3 4TU cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Group to be materially different from any future results, Telephone: 0871 200 1536 UK performance or achievements expressed or implied by such Calls cost 10p per minute plus network forward looking statements.
Except as required by the Listing extras.
Lines are open 8.30am-5.30pm Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable law, the Monday-Friday Company undertakes no obligation to update, revise or change any 44 0 20 3008 2245 overseas forward looking statements to reflect events or developments occurring on or after the date of this Annual Report.
