156 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Other information: Glossary and definitions Business, financial and accounting ADASA Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group Corporate Governance The UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial incorporated in Chile and operating the Water concession in Chiles Code Reporting Council in May 2010 and applicable to listed companies for Antofagasta Region acquired from ECONSSA.
reporting years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The code replaces the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Desalant Desalant S. A. former owner of a desalination plant located in AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate.
Antofagasta and acquired by the Group through ADASA.
AMSA Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group Directors The Directors of the Company.
incorporated in Chile which acts as the corporate centre for the mining division.
Duluth Duluth Metals Limited, incorporated in Canada which has a 60% non-controlling interest in the Groups subsidiary Twin Metals.
Annual report The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 of Antofagasta plc.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
Antomin Antomin Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Jersey a 51%-owned subsidiary until 25 August 2008.
ECONSSA Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. the Chilean state-owned company which previously operated the regulated and Antucoya Copper project located approximately 45 km east of Michilla.
non-regulated water distribution business in Chiles Antofagasta Region The project is 70% owned by the Group wholly-owned by the Group formerly known as ESSAN.
until the Marubeni transaction on 14 December 2011.
El Tesoro Minera El Tesoro, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. a 30%-owned associate inChile a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group until 25 August 2008, of the Group incorporated in Chile and operating the port in the city before the Marubeni transaction.
ENAP Empresa Nacional del Petrleo, the 40% joint venture partner of the Australian dollars Australian currency.
Group in Energa Andina S. A. Banco fide Chile Banco fide Chile, a subsidiary of Quienco.
Energa Andina S. A. Energa Andina S. A. a 60%-owned joint venture entity of the Group Barrick Gold Barrick Gold Corporation, the joint venture partner of the Group incorporated in Chile.
Board The Directors of Antofagasta plc who collectively have responsibility Equatorial Equatorial Mining Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group for the conduct of the Groups business.
Capex Capital expenditure s. Esperanza Minera Esperanza, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated Caracoles Compaa Contractual Minera Caracoles, a wholly-owned subsidiary in Chile.
of the Group incorporated in Chile.
ESSAN Empresa fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. former name of ECONSSA.
Cash costs A measure of the cost of operational production expressed in terms EU European Union.
ofcents per pound of payable copper produced.
Cash costs are stated FCA Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. a 50%-owned subsidiary of the Group net of by-product credits and include tolling charges for concentrates incorporated in Bolivia.
Cash costs exclude depreciation, financial income and expenses, hedging gains and losses, exchange FCAB Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the Chilean name for the gains and losses and corporation tax.
Antofagasta Railway Company plc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Centinela Copper district located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, where Group incorporated in the United Kingdom and operating a rail network ElTesoro and Esperanza are located.
Formerly known as the in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
CCU Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. an associate of Quienco.
FTSE 100 Index A  weighted index representing the performance CGU Cash-Generating Unit.
ofthe 100 largest UK-domiciled blue chip companies.
FTSE All-Share Index A  weighted index representing the performance ofall eligible companies listed on the London Stock Exchanges 2008 Combined Code The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the mainmarket.
Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 which was applicable to listed companies for reporting years beginning on or after 29 June 2008.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or Generally Accepted TheCombined Code has been replaced with the 2010 UK Corporate Accounting Principles.
Government The Government of the Republic of Chile.
Compaa Minera Compaa Minera Milpo S. A.
A. of Peru is a former owner of a 18.5% Group Antofagasta plc and its subsidiary companies.
Milpo interest in Caracoles, acquired by the Group in February 2009.
Hedge accounting Accounting treatment for derivatives financial instrument permitted under Companies Act 2006 Principal legislation for United Kingdom company law.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, which Company Antofagasta plc.
recognises the offsetting effects on profit or loss of changes in the fair values of a hedging instrument and the hedged item.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 157 IAS International Accounting Standards.
Quienco Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate under the control of the Luksic family and listed on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
Realised prices Effective sale price achieved comparing revenues grossed up for tolling IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
charges for concentrate with sales volumes.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Reko Diq Reko Diq is a substantial copper-gold porphyry district in south-west Inversiones Hornitos Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a 40%-owned associate of the Group Pakistan.
The Groups interest is held through Tethyan Copper Company incorporated in Chile which owns the 150MW Hornitos thermoelectric Limited, a 50-50 joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation of Canada.
power plant in Mejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
Ro Figueroa Ro Figueroa, an exploration project located in Chiles Atacama Region.
IVA Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Value Added Tax Chilean VAT.
Key Management Persons with authority and responsibility for planning, directing and SVS Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide Chile, the Chilean securities Personnel controlling the activities of the Group.
Telgrafo Copper prospect located in the Centinela District held through LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
Tethyan Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50%-owned joint venture entity Los Pelambres Minera Los Pelambres, a 60%-owned subsidiary of the Group of the Group incorporated in Australia.
TSR Total Shareholder Return, being the movement in the Companys share LSE London Stock Exchange.
LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
Turnbull Guidance The revised guidance on internal control for directors on Combined Code Madeco Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
issued by the Turnbull Review Group in October 2005.
Marubeni Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% minority partner in El Tesoro, Twin Metals Twin Metals Minnnesota LLC, a 40%-owned subsidiary of the Group Esperanza and Antucoya.
incorporated in the United States.
Metallica Resources Minera Metallica Resources Chile Limitada, a subsidiary of New Gold Inc. UK United Kingdom.
Chile Limitada formerly Metallica Resources Inc., a company with exploration interests 2010 UK Corporate The UK Corporate Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in the Ro Figueroa Project.
Governance Code in May 2010 and applicable to listed companies for reporting years Michilla Minera Michilla S. A. a 74.2%-owned subsidiary of the Group beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The code replaces the 2008 incorporated in Chile.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Mirador Copper oxide deposit which forms part of the El Tesoro operation.
UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Mulpun Coal gasification project located near Valdivia in southern Chile.
Provisional pricing A sales term in several copper and molybdenum concentrate sale US dollars United States currency.
agreements and cathodes sale agreements which provides for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average LME copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specific future periods, normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer.
For the purposes ofIAS 39, the provisional sale is considered to contain an embedded derivative i. e. the forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted which is separated from the host contract i. e. the sale of metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at theprovisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted.
158 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Other information: Glossary and definitions Mining industry Brownfield project A development or exploration project in the vicinity of an Payable copper The proportion or quantity of contained copper for which payment existingoperation.
Porphyry A large body of rock which contains disseminated chalcopyrite and other By-products credits in Products obtained as result of copper processing.
Such a deposit is mined in bulk on a large scale, copper concentrates andEsperanza receive credit for the gold and silver content generally in open pits, for copper and its by-product molybdenum.
Los Pelambres also produces molybdenum concentrate.
Price participation Part of the tolling charges for copper concentrate under a sales Concentrate The product of a physical concentration process, such as flotation agreement, usually in addition to TC RCs and calculated as a percentage orgravity concentration, which involves separating ore minerals from of the difference between the copper price at final pricing and an agreed unwanted wasted rock.
Concentrates require subsequent processing reference copper price, and which may result in an increase or decrease such as smelting or leaching to break down or dissolve the ore minerals to TC RCs.
and obtain the desired elements, usually metals.
Price sharing Tolling charges calculated under a sales agreement as an agreed Contained copper The proportion or quantity of copper contained in a given quantity of ore percentage of the price for the metal contained in copper concentrate, or concentrate.
as an alternative to TC RCs and or price participation.
Copper cathode Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining of impure copper Run-of-Mine ROM A process for the recovery of copper from ore, typically used for byelectro-winning.
The mined, uncrushed ore is leached with a chemical solution.
The metal is then recovered from the solution through the Cut-off grade The lowest grade of mineralised material considered economic SX-EW process.
toprocess and used in the calculation of ore reserves and mineralresources.
Stockpile Material extracted and piled for future use.
Flotation A process by which chemicals are added to materials in a solution which SX-EW Solvent-Extraction and Electro-Winning.
A process for extracting metal are attracted to bubbles and float, while other materials sink, resulting from an ore and producing pure metal.
First the metal is leached into inthe production of concentrate.
solution: the resulting solution is then purified in the solvent-extraction process: the solution is then treated in an electro chemical process Grade A copper Highest quality copper cathode LME registered and certificated in the electro-winning to recover cathode copper.
cathode case of El Tesoro and Michilla.
Tailings dam Construction used to deposit the rock waste which remains as a result Greenfield project The development or exploration of a new project not previously of the concentrating process after the recoverable minerals have been examined.
Heap-leaching A process for the recovery of copper from ore.
The crushed material is TC RCs Treatment and refining charges, being terms used to set the smelting laid on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached by uniformly and refining charge or margin for processing copper concentrate and trickling gravity fed chemical solution through the beds to ponds.
The normally set either on an annual basis or on a spot basis.
metal is then recovered from the solution through the SX-EW process.
Tolling charges Charges or margins for converting concentrate into finished metal.
JORC Joint Ore Reserves Committee of Australia.
These include TC RCs, price participation and price sharing for copper Leaching The process by which a soluble mineral can be economically recovered concentrate and roasting charges for molybdenum concentrate.
Tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the quantity of ore processed LOM or The remaining life of a mine expressed in years, calculated by reference over a given period of time expressed as a daily average.
Life of Mine to scheduled production rates i. e. comparing the rate at which ore is Underground mine Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the Earth.
expected to be extracted from the mine to current defined reserves.
Mineral resources Material of intrinsic economic interest occurring in such form and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
Mineral resources are stated inclusive of ore reserves, asdefined by JORC.
MW Megawatts one million watts.
Open pit Mine working or excavation which is open to the surface.
Ore Rock from which metal s or mineral s can be economically and legallyextracted.
Ore grade The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal content in an ore body or quantity of processed ore.
Ore reserves Part of Mineral Resources for which appropriate assessments have been carried out to demonstrate at a given date extraction could be reasonably justified and which include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
Oxide and Sulphide Different kinds of ore containing copper.
Oxide ore occurs on the ores weathered surface of ore-rich lodes and normally results in the production of cathode copper through a heap-leaching process.
Sulphide ore comes from an unweathered parent ores process and normally results in the production of concentrate through a flotation process which then requires smelting and refining to produce cathodecopper.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 159 Currency abbreviations Definitions and conversion of weights and measures US cents Cents of US dollars.
