146 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Other information: Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates At 31 December 2011 An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, Introduction shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a reasonable level The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates presented in this report comply with the of confidence.
It is based on exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through requirements of the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
andOre Reserves 2004 edition the JORC Code which has been used by the Group as minimum The locations are too widely or inappropriately spaced to confirm geological and or grade continuity standard for the preparation and disclosure of the information contained herein.
The definitions but are spaced closely enough for continuity to be assumed.
andcategories of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are set out below.
A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, The information on ore reserves and mineral resources was prepared by or under the supervision shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a high level ofCompetent Persons as defined in the JORC Code.
The Competent Persons have sufficient ofconfidence.
It is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings totheactivity which they are undertaking.
The Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in and drill holes.
The locations are spaced closely enough to confirm geological and grade continuity.
thisreport of the matters based on their information in the form and context in which it appears.
An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral TheCompetent Person for Exploration Results and Mineral Resources is Orlando Rojas Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may occur when the MAusIMM, Assistant Manager of Mineral Resource Evaluation for Antofagasta Minerals S. A.. material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include TheCompetent Person for Ore Reserves is Murray Canfield P. Eng.
Ontario, Technical Manager consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, Operations for Antofagasta Minerals S. A. marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate The Groups operations and projects are subject to a comprehensive programme of audits aimed at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided atproviding assurance in respect of ore reserves and mineral resources estimates.
The audits in order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
areconducted by suitably qualified Competent Persons from within a particular division, another A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some division of the Company or from independent consultants.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates represent full reserves and resources, with the losses which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have Groups attributable share for each mine shown in the Attributable Tonnage column.
The Groups been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, economic interest in each mine is disclosed in the notes following the estimates on pages metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors 148to150.
The totals in the table may include some small apparent differences as the Theseassessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could specificindividual figures have not been rounded.
A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
Definitions and categories of ore reserves Itincludes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration andmineral resources ofand modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time inoron the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects ofreporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a low level of confidence.
It is inferred from geological evidence and assumed but not verified geological and or grade continuity.
It is based on information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain quality and reliability.
The ore reserves and mineral resources are made up of the estimates El Tesoro Central, Tesoro North-East and Mirador deposits, which are processed by heap-leaching, The ore reserves mentioned in this report were determined considering specific cut-off grades and the Run-of-Mine ROM Oxide ore reserves and mineral resources from the Esperanza Mine, foreach mine and using a long-term copper price of 240 cents per pound 220 cents per pound located five kilometres south-east of El Tesoro.
An agreement was entered into in 2008 whereby in2010, US$12.00 per pound molybdenum US$12.00 per pound in 2010 and US$900 per the Esperanza Oxide mineral resources were purchased by El Tesoro for a one-time payment.
gold ounce US$850 per gold ounce in 2010, unless otherwise noted.
These same values have Esperanza delivers the ROM ore released during the pre-stripping and operating phases of the been used for copper equivalent CuEq estimates, where appropriate.
Esperanza operation to a permanent leach pad constructed and operated by the El Tesoro mine.
Atthe request of El Tesoro, some of the higher grade Esperanza oxide ore is sent directly to the In order to ensure that the stated resources represent mineralisation that has reasonable prospects ElTesoro heap-leach pads.
for eventual economic extraction JORC code the resources are enclosed within pit shells that were optimised based on measured, indicated and inferred resources and considering a copper The cut-off grade used for estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources for the Tesoro Central price of 300 cents per pound 250 cents per pound in 2010.
Mineralisation estimated outside and Tesoro North-East deposits is 0.41% copper.
The cut-off grade used for estimation of ore these pit shells is not included in the resource figures unless they can expect to be exploited reserves and mineral resources for the Mirador deposit is 0.30% copper, reflecting higher byunderground methods.
projectedrecoveries and lower acid consumption for the Mirador deposit.
Proved and probable ore reserves for the El Tesoro open pits were depleted by 7.0 million tonnes a Los Pelambres as plant feed the remainder of plant feed came from higher grade Esperanza oxides.
Total ore Los Pelambres is 60% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves were reduced by 9.0 million tonnes, with the difference due to adjustments to pit designs.
reserves and mineral resources is 0.35% copper.
For 2011 the mineral resource model has been Proved and probable ore reserves for the Esperanza oxides increased by a net 4.5 million tonnes, updated with 60 in-fill drill holes for a total of 15,877 metres.
In this model, criteria for resource after depletion of 2.1 million tonnes.
This is a result of the effects of the in-fill drill campaign in the categorisation have been modified, incorporating recommendations included in a pre-audit report Esperanza resource model upgrading inferred resources to the measured or indicated category conducted by AMEC October 2009.
Metallurgical models have also been updated.
The net increase of 46 million tonnes after depletion of 64 million tonnes in ore reserves is Total mineral resources for the El Tesoro open pits increased by a net 2.4 million tonnes.
mainlyrelated to the inclusion in the database of the in-fill drillholes, which have lifted some Thisisacombination of depletion of 7.0 million tonnes offset by an increase in the copper price inferredresources into the indicated or measured category, as well as the modification in resource used tooptimise the resource pits.
Mineral resources are defined as those contained within an categorisation criteria.
The final pit design has not been modified significantly for the 2011 ore un-smoothed, optimised pit shell using all resource categories and a copper price of 300 cents reserve estimate.
perpound 250 cents per pound in 2010.
Mineral resources increased overall by a net 187 million tonnes, after depletion.
Mineral resources The cut-off grade used for estimation of both ore reserves and mineral resources for the El Tesoro in the measured and indicated categories decreased by 265 million tonnes mostly outside the ROM Esperanza Oxides is 0.20% copper.
During the year, 21.9 million tonnes of oxide mineral designed reserve pit while resources in the inferred category increased by 452 million tonnes.
resources were extracted from the Esperanza pit, of which 2.1 million tonnes of higher grade oxide Aportion of the inferred category increase is a result of re-categorisation of measured and ore were delivered directly to the El Tesoro heap-leach pads and subsequently depleted.
A total indicated resources while the remainder is due to increased information from drill holes at depth of63.5 million tonnes are in the ROM leach pads and have been partially leached, and another andan increase in the price of copper used for defining resources.
Mineral resources are defined 17.6million tonnes have been delivered to the ROM leach pads or stockpiles and have not yet as those contained within an un-smoothed, optimised pit shell, using all resource categories and a beenput under leach.
copper price of 300 cents per pound 250 cents per pound in 2010, discounting those resources falling within the Las Tigresas concessions which are 100% owned by the Group, not directly d Michilla byLos Pelambres, adjacent to the concessions owned by Los Pelambres.
The western portion Michilla is 74.2% owned by the Group and its operations comprise an open pit mine, an ofthe Las Tigresas concessions was transferred to Los Pelambres in 2011. underground mine and other workings.
The cut off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves and mineral resources is 0.36 to 0.40% copper for open pits 0.40% in 2010, 1.2% b Esperanza Sulphides copper for the Estefana underground mine and 0.8% copper for other workings a change from Esperanza is 70% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore 1.0% in 2010. reserves is 0.20% equivalent copper, with 0.15% copper used as a cut-off grade for mineral Ore reserves increased by a net 6.1 million tonnes, after depletion of 4.0 million tonnes.
For 2011 the mineral resource model has been updated with 101 in-fill drill holes was 4.6 million tonnes, with the difference coming from additional ore not considered in the mine foratotal of 43,997 metres.
The ore reserve estimate for 2011 is based on a mine plan that extends the mine life to 2015 Despite depletion of 24 million tonnes, ore reserves increased by a net 13 million tonnes.
This mine plan includes incorporation of ore reserves in the Aurora pit, Thisisaresult of re-categorisation of inferred resources from the in fill drilling programme.
opening up another phase in the Lince pit and returning to the Ncleo X pit with a push-back, Thefinalpit design has not been modified for the 2011 ore reserve estimate.
aswell as extensions to the cut-and-fill sections of the Estefana underground operation and Mineral resources increased by a net 96 million tonnes, after depletion.
This is due to new developments in the third-party satellite deposits.
During 2011 in-fill and exploration drilling information from the in-fill drilling campaign as well as adjustments to the geological and estimation wascarried out on the Estefana Lince deposits and on several other satellite deposits for models.
Mineral resources have been limited to those contained within an un-smoothed, optimised atotalof36,780 metres in 253 drill holes.
pit shell using a copper price of 300 cents per pound 250 cents per pound in 2010.
The Mineral resources have increased by a net 10.5 million tonnes, after depletion.
Additional resources optimised pit shell used to limit mineral resources is based on an integrated block model that are related to the incorporation of the Viruca deposit as a potential open pit and a significant estimates the Esperanza and Telgrafo mineral deposits together in one model.
This is a change increase in the Polo deposit, both of which are within an economic radius of the existing plant.
from 2010 when the two deposits were modelled separately and then the two models were joined Theopen pit mineral resource estimates include those resources contained within an un-smoothed, to form an integrated model.
optimised pit shell using all resource categories and a copper price of 300 cents per pound 250 cents per pound in 2010 and applying a cut-off grade of 0.40% copper within the pit shell.
The mineral resources estimate for Michilla includes several resource block models, incorporating the multiple deposits on the property.
A portion of the extensive drilling programme carried out in 2010 and continuing in 2011 has been included in resource block model updates for the 2011 mineral resources estimates, except for the Lince Estefana deposit.
The Lince Estefana resource model was last updated in March 2010, with a significant resource model update expected in 2012.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 151 Not included in the mineral resources estimate is the spent ore deposited on site.
This is material h Reko Diq that is removed from the dynamic heap-leach pads after the primary leach cycle is completed.
As explained in Note 39 to the financial statements, the Group has held an effective 37.5% Since the beginning of the Lince project in 1994 between 65 and 70 million tonnes of spent ore interestin the Reko Diq copper-gold deposit in the Chagai Hills district of the province of has been deposited in a spent ore dump, adjacent to the dynamic leach pads.
The grade of this Balochistan in south-west Pakistan through its joint venture entity Tethyan Copper Company material is expected to be in the range of 0.20 to 0.30% copper.
During 2010 testwork was done Pty.
on an industrial scale to determine the potential viability of re-leaching this material by removing it On 15 February 2011, Tethyan submitted an application to the Government of Balochistan in from the spent ore dump and placing it under leach on the dynamic pads.
Testwork continued and accordance with the Balochistan Mineral Rules for a mining lease.
Tethyans exploration licence modest production from spent ore was realised in 2011, with significant production projected for hadbeen due to expire on 19 February 2011, but the submission of the mining lease application 2012 and beyond.
suspended the expiry of the exploration licence as to the mining area covered in the application.
On15 November 2011, Tethyan was notified by the Government of Balochistan that the e Antucoya Government had rejected the application.
Antucoya is 100% owned by the Group as of end-2011.
As explained in Note 33 to the financial Tethyan has initiated an administrative appeal with the Government of Balochistan in respect of the statements, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed in December 2011 whereby Marubeni mining lease application process, and has also commenced two international arbitrations in order Corporation the Groups partner in El Tesoro and Esperanza agreed to become a 30% partner in toprotect its legal rights.
Tethyan strongly believes that it has complied with the requirements this project.
Definitive agreements are expected to be signed during the first quarter of 2012 and oftheBalochistan Mineral Rules and the CHEJVA and is entitled to the grant of the mining lease.
closing of the transaction is expected during the second half of 2012.
A feasibility study was Further details are given in Note 39. completed in 2011 and a decision was made in December to construct the project.
The concept for processing has now been confined to heap-leaching on dynamic pads Run-of-Mine ROM There have been no changes to the mineral resources estimate for Reko Diq.
The cut-off grade leaching on permanent pads was previously considered but rejected during the feasibility study.
applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.20% copper equivalent.
For Reko Diq, The cut-off grade for mineral resources has therefore been increased to 0.15% from 0.10% in copper equivalent values are calculated based on a copper price of 190 cents per pound and 2010, consistent with the heap-leaching process.
agold price of 725 dollars per ounce.
The mineral resources are those contained within un-smoothed optimised pit shell using the same prices.
Ore reserves for Antucoya were originally published on December 14th, 2011 and are based onacut-off grade of 0.21% copper.
Mineral resources for Antucoya have decreased by 403 million tonnes, mostly related to the increase in cut-off grade.
Mineral resources include those contained within an un-smoothed, optimised pit shell using a copper price of 300 cents per pound 250 cents per pound in 2010. f Telgrafo Esperanza Sur Telgrafo is owned 70% by the Group and is adjacent to the Esperanza deposit.
A cut-off grade of0.15% copper is used for determining mineral resources.
For 2011 the mineral resource model has been updated with 168 in-fill drill holes for a total of 48,767 metres.
Total mineral resources have increased by 238 million tonnes with the measured and indicated categories increasing by 183 million tonnes.
This is due to new information from the in-fill drilling campaign as well as adjustments to the geological and estimation models.
Mineral resources have been limited to those contained within an un-smoothed, optimised pit shell using a copper price of 300 cents per pound 250 cents per pound in 2010.
The optimised pit shell used to limit mineral resources is based on an integrated block model that estimates the Esperanza and Telgrafo mineral deposits together in one model.
This is a change from 2010 when the two deposits were modelled separately and then the two models were joined to form an integrated model.
From 2012 on the Telgrafo deposit will be referred to as Esperanza Sur, in order to better reflect the more continuous nature of the mineralization.
g Caracoles Encuentro Caracoles is 100% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for both oxides and sulphides is 0.15% copper 0.20% copper in 2010.
For 2011 the mineral resource model has been updated with 86 in-fill drill holes for a total of 46,019 metres.
Total mineral resources have increased by 286 million tonnes, with a 290 million tonne decrease ininferred resources category more than offset by a 463 million tonne increase in measured and indicated categories, as a result of the extensive in-fill drilling campaign carried out prior to updating the resource model for 2011 and the change in cut-off grade.
Mineral resources include those contained within an un-smoothed, optimised pit shell using a copper price of 300 cents per pound 250 cents per pound in 2010.
From 2012 on the Caracoles deposit will be referred toasEncuentro.
152 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Other information: Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates At 31 December 2011 Notes to ore reserves and mineral resources estimates continued i Other mineral inventory In addition to the Mineral Resources noted above, the Group has interests in other deposits located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, some of them containing gold and or molybdenum.
At the moment they are in exploration or in the process of resource estimation.
The potential quantity and grade of each of the deposits is conceptual in nature, there has been insufficient exploration to define these deposits as mineral resources, and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the determination of a mineral resource.
These include: i In the Centinela District formerly as the Sierra Gorda District In the Centinela Mining District ex-Sierra Gorda the Group has two operations El Tesoro and Esperanza and others in exploration or under study, such as: Llano-Paleocanal 70% owned by the Group : Centinela 51% owned by the Group : and Polo Sur 100% owned by the Group.
The Mineral Inventory of these deposits incorporating both oxide and sulphide mineralisation is estimated to be in the range of 610 to 872 million tonnes with grades in the range of 0.49% to 0.41% copper.
The table below lists each of the mineral deposits with its associated tonnage and grade ranges, the number of drillholes and associated metres drilled, as well as the Groups ownership interest: Tonnes Grade Number Ownership range drill Total interest range Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Llano Paleocanal 90 140 0.51 0.41 79 17,100 70.0 Centinela 60 100 0.76 0.63 36 9,900 51.0 Polo Sur 460 632 0.45 0.37 236 85,177 100.0 Total 610 872 0.49 0.41 351 112,177 ii In the Michilla District In the Michilla District there are several satellite deposits to the main Michilla ore body that have been included in the Mineral Resources Table.
However, there is at least one other deposit within a potentially economic radius of the Michilla mine: Rencoret, owned 100% by the Group.
Tonnes Grade Number Ownership range range drill Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Rencoret 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 100.0 Total 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 iii In the El Abra District The Group has two mineral deposits within a few kilometres of the El Abra ore body, located near Calama in the Antofagasta Region of Chile.
Conchi is a porphyry copper mineral deposit with oxide and sulphide mineralisation, while Brujulina is an exotic-style mineral deposit oxide mineralisation only.
The Mineral Inventory of these deposits is estimated to be in the range of 0.5 to 0.7 billion tonnes with grades in the range of 0.7% to 0.5% copper.
The table below lists each of the mineral deposits with its associated tonnage and grade ranges, as well as the Groups ownership interest: Tonnes Grade Number Ownership range range drill Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Conchi 440 660 0.67 0.55 123 30,950 51.0 Brujulina 50 80 0.65 0.53 159 15,300 51.0 Total 490 740 0.67 0.55 282 46,250 j Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors The Group has an approximately 51% interest in two indirect subsidiaries, Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors Limited, which own a number of copper exploration properties in Chiles Antofagasta Region and Coquimbo Region.
These include but are not limited to Centinela see Note i i above and Conchi and Brujulina see Note i iii above.
Theremaining approximately 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors is owned by Mineralinvest Establishment Mineralinvest, a company controlled by the Luksic family.
The Group has the exclusive right to acquire, at fair value under certain conditions, the shareholding of Mineralinvest in Antomin 2 Limited and Antomin Investors, or the underlying properties, for a period offive years from August 2008.
The Group also has committed to meet in full any exploration costs relating to the properties held by these two entities.
Further details are set out in Note 38 d to the financial statements.
k Twin Metals Minnesota LLC The Group has a 40% controlling interest in Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Twin Metals, with the remaining 60% held by Duluth Metals Limited Duluth.
Twin Metals was formed in 2010 as the operating company for the Nokomis project, a  group metal PGM deposit located in northeastern Minnesota, USA.
As explained in Note 33 c to the financial statements, in August 2011 Twin Metals completed the acquisition of the assets formerly held by Franconia Minerals Corporation Franconia.
Franconias principal asset was a 70% interest in the Birch Lake Joint Venture BLJV which holds the Birch Lake, Maturi and Spruce Road  and palladium deposits that are contiguous to Twin Metals existing deposits.
Franconia announced in November 2010 itsintention to increase its ownership interest to 82% under the terms of the BLJV agreement.
The contiguous Nokomis-Maturi deposits and the nearby Birch Lake deposit are the subjects of an ongoing pre-feasibility study being undertaken by Twin Metals.
The engineering firm AMEC was contracted in 2011 to consolidate all of the previous and current drilling information to develop updated and consolidated geological models and a mineral resource estimate to support the pre-feasibility study.
Twin Metals and its predecessor, Duluth conducted extensive exploration programmes on the project in 2010 and 2011.
Nokomis-Maturi was explored with 349 modern drill holes and 99 legacy holes for a total of 372,000 metres.
Birch Lake was explored by Franconia from 2000 to 2010 with 214 holes drilled, while 36 legacy holes were drilled by numerous previous operators for a total of176,000 metres.
At the time of reporting, the geological models and resource estimate were in an advanced stage of development, but not yet finalised.
