Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 97 Notes to the financial statements The Group anticipates that these standards will be adopted in the consolidated financial statements 1 Basis of preparation for the annual period beginning 1 January 2013.
The application of these standards may have significant impact on amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements.
The application a Accounting standards applied ofIFRS 10 may result in the Group no longer consolidating some of its investees, and consolidating The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting investees that were not previously consolidated.
In addition, the application of IFRS 11 may result in Standards IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies changes in the accounting of the Groups jointly controlled entities that are currently accounted for reporting under IFRS.
For these purposes, IFRS comprise the standards issued by the International using proportionate consolidation.
Under IFRS 11, a jointly controlled entity may be classified as Accounting Standards Board IASB and Interpretations issued by the International Financial ajoint operation or joint venture, depending on the rights and obligations of the parties to the joint Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC that have been endorsed by the European arrangement.
The Directors have not yet performed a detailed analysis of the impact of the Union EU.
However, the Directors do not expect the adoption of the standards The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Details of the factors to have a material impact on the financial statement in future periods.
which have been taken into account in assessing the Groups going concern status are set out IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures about onpage 80 of the Corporate governance report.
The Standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and fair value, and requires disclosures about fair value measurements.
The Group anticipates that IFRS Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but 13 will be adopted in the Groups consolidated financial statements for the annual period beginning notyeteffective: 1 January 2013 and that the application of the new standard may affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and result in more extensive disclosures in the financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 1 Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters IAS 19 revised changes the accounting for defined benefit plans and termination benefits.
Theamendments require the recognition of changes in defined benefit obligations and accelerate Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets and offsetting the recognition of past service costs.
The amendments require all actuarial gains and losses to be ofFinancial Assets and Financial Liabilities recognised immediately through other comprehensive income in order for the net pension asset IFRS 9 Financial Instruments orliability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet to reflect the full value of the plan deficit IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements orsurplus.
The amendments to IAS 19 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1January 2013 and require retrospective application with certain exceptions.
The Directors anticipate that the amendments to IAS 19 will be adopted in the Groups consolidated financial IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities statements for the annual period beginning 1 January 2013 and that the application of the IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement amendments to IAS 19 may have impact on amounts reported in respect of the Groups defined Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income benefit plans.
The Directors do not expect the amendments to have a material impact on the Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes Recovery of Underlying Assets financial statements in future periods.
IAS 19 as revised in 2011 Employee Benefits IFRIC 20 clarifies the requirements for stripping costs in the production phase of a surface IAS 27 as revised in 2011 Separate financial statements mineand is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 2013.
The Groups existingtreatment of stripping costs is in line with IFRIC 20 and its adoption will not affect the IAS 28 as revised in 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures financial statements.
IAS 32 as revised in 2011 Financial Instruments: Presentation IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine b Adoption of new accounting standards The adoption of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups In the current financial year the Group has adopted the following standards that have affected the financial assets.
presentation and disclosure in these financial statements: IFRS 10 replaces the parts of IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements that deal with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008.
As part of Improvements to IFRSs issued in 2010, IFRS 3 the consolidated financial statements.
Under IFRS 10 there is only one basis of consolidation, that was amended to clarify that the measurement choice regarding non-controlling interests at the date is control.
In addition, IFRS 10 includes a new definition of control that contains three elements: of acquisition is only available in respect of non-controlling interests that are present ownership a power over an investee, b exposure, or rights, to variable returns from investment with the interests and that entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event investee, and c the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the of liquidation.
All other types of non-controlling interests are measured at their acquisition-date fair investorsreturns.
value, unless another measurement basis is required by other standards.
In addition, IFRS 3 was amended to provide more guidance regarding the accounting for share-based payment awards IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
IFRS 11 deals with how a joint arrangement held by the acquirees employees.
Specifically, the amendments specify that share-based payment inwhich two or more parties have joint control should be classified.
Under IFRS 11, joint transactions of the acquiree that are not replaced should be measured in accordance with IFRS 2 arrangements are classified as joint operations or joint ventures, depending on the rights and Share-based Payment at the acquisition date market-based measure.
The amendments are obligations of the parties to the arrangements.
Joint ventures under IFRS 11 are required to be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
The Group is of the opinion that accounted for using the equity method of accounting, whereas jointly controlled entities under theamendment does not affect any business combinations which have occurred since the IAS31 can be accounted for using the equity method of accounting or proportionate accounting.
IFRS 12 is a disclosure standard and is applicable to entities that have interests in subsidiaries, joint The following standards and interpretations are effective but have not had any significant impact arrangements, associates and or unconsolidated structured entities.
In general, the disclosure onthe financial statements: requirements in IFRS 12 are more extensive than those in the current standards.
IAS 24 2009 Related Party Disclosures Amendments to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 98 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements When a Group entity transacts with its jointly-controlled entity, profits and losses resulting from 2 Principal accounting policies the transactions with the jointly-controlled entity are recognised in the Groups consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the jointly-controlled entity that are not a Accounting convention related to the Group.
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified bythe use of fair values to measure certain financial instruments, principally provisionally priced iv Other investments The accounting treatment of investments which are not subsidiaries, sales as explained in Note 2 d and financial derivative contracts as explained in Note 2 v. associates or jointly-controlled entities is set out in Note 2 v relating to other financial instruments.
b Basis of consolidation v Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions and disposals are treated as explained in Note The financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements of Antofagasta plc 2 e relating to business combinations and goodwill.
theCompany and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
c Currency translation i Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has power to govern the The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary operating and financial policies in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
The consolidated economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional financial statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
theCompany and its subsidiaries after eliminating inter-company balances and transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net earnings attributable to non-controlling retranslated at year-end exchange rates.
Gains and losses on retranslation are included in net profit shareholders are presented as Non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet or loss for the period within other finance items.
The presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the Company is the US Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to dollar.
On consolidation, income statement items for entities with a functional currency other than aproportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
Balance sheet items are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the translated at period-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement ofsuch entities are taken to equity and recorded in a separate currency translation reserve.
basis is made on an  basis.
Other types of non-controlling interests Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition date to IFRS are recognised as are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another IFRS.
incomeor as expenses in the income statement in the period in which an operation is disposed.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount ofthose interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent On consolidation, exchange gains and losses which arise on balances between Group entities changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even aretaken to reserves where that balance is, in substance, part of the net investment in a foreign ifthis results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
operation, i. e. where settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
Allother exchange gains and losses on Group balances are dealt with in the income statement.
Changes in the Groups ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amounts Fair value adjustments and any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated ofthe Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes asassets of the foreign entity and translated at the period-end rate.
intheir relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received d Revenue recognition isrecognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to third parties during the year.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss and Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, and excludes is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration anyapplicable sales tax.
received and the fair value of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed.
This is assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
generally when title and any insurance risk has passed to the customer, and the goods have been When assets of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts or fair values and the related delivered to a contractually agreed location or when any services have been provided.
cumulative gain or loss has been recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated Revenue from mining activities is recorded at the invoiced amounts with an adjustment for in equity, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated provisional pricing at each reporting date, as explained below.
For copper and molybdenum inequity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the relevant assets concentrates, which are sold to smelters and roasting plants for further processing, the invoiced i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings as specified by amount is the market value of the metal payable by the customer, net of deductions for tolling applicable IFRSs.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date charges.
Revenue includes amounts from the sale of by-products.
when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing based on cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a jointly controlled entity.
the monthly average London Metal Exchange LME copper price or the monthly average market ii Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from 30 to 120 days after to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through the power to delivery to the customer.
Such a provisional sale contains an embedded derivative which is participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of that entity.
The results and assets required to be separated from the host contract.
The host contract is the sale of metals contained and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using in the concentrate or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted, and the equity method of accounting.
This requires recording the investment initially at cost to the theembedded derivative is the forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently Group and then, in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the investment to adjusted.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal sales together with any related reflect the Groups share of the associates results less any impairment and any other changes tolling charges are marked-to-market, with adjustments both gains and losses being recorded to the associates net assets such as dividends.
When the Groups share of losses of an inrevenue in the consolidated income statement and in trade debtors in the balance sheet.
associate exceeds the Groups interest in that associate the Group discontinues recognising Forward prices at the period end are used for copper concentrate and cathode sales, while itsshare of further losses.
Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group period-end average prices are used for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
iii Investments in jointly-controlled entities A jointly-controlled entity is an entity in which the Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the Group holds a long-term interest and shares joint control over the operating and financial effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash decisions with one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
Jointly-controlled receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidation, which combines the Groups share of the results of the jointly-controlled entity on a line-by-line basis with similar items Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment intheGroups financial statements.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 99 e Business combinations and goodwill f Intangible assets Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is recognised on ofthe acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by astraight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful life and amortisation theGroup to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in inexchange for control of the acquiree.
The results of businesses acquired during the year estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives arebrought into the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition.
that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Theidentifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a business which can be measured Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately from goodwill reliably are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Provisional fair values areinitially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date which is regarded as their cost.
are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported asincurred.
at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets asintangible assets that are acquired separately.
orliabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected ismeasured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred from use or disposal.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured ina business combination.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are asmeasurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from g Exploration and evaluation expenditure theacquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
Exploration and evaluation are expensed in the year in which it is incurred.
When a decision is taken The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do that a mining project is commercially viable normally when the project has reached the feasibility notqualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration stage all further directly attributable pre-production expenditure is capitalised.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent ofpre-production expenditure ceases when commercial levels of production are achieved.
reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates h Property, plant and equipment in accordance with IAS 39, or IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs of acquiring and developing asappropriate.
mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the year When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held equity interest in inwhich they are incurred, when a decision has been taken that a mining project is commercially the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date when the Group obtains viable normally when the project has reached the feasibility stage.
control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises the purchase price and any costs directly interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be appropriate operating in the manner intended.
Once a project has been established as commercially viable, if that interest were disposed of.
related development expenditure is capitalised.
This includes costs incurred in preparing the site for If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period mining operations, including pre-stripping costs.
Capitalisation ceases when the mine is capable of in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the commercial production, with the exception of development costs which give rise to a future benefit.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period Interest on borrowings directly related to construction or development of projects is capitalised, see above, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale which, in the about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have caseof mining properties, is when they are capable of commercial production.
affected the amounts recognised at that date.
Goodwill arising in a business combination is measured as the excess of the sum of the i Depreciation of property, plant and equipment consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fairvalue of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the next andamortisation of intangible assets identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Any goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the is separately disclosed, while any goodwill on the acquisition of associates is included within operation if shorter, to residual value.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are investments in equity accounted entities.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
Where the depreciated as follows: fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired exceed the sum of the consideration transferred, i L and freehold land is not depreciated.
Any leasehold land is depreciated on a straight-line the surplus is credited to the profit or loss in the period of acquisition as a bargain purchase gain.
basis over the life of the lease.
The Group often enters into earn-in arrangements whereby the Group acquires an interest in a ii Mining properties mining properties, including capitalised financing costs, are depreciated project company in exchange for funding exploration and evaluation expenditure up to a specified on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in the year level of expenditure or a specified stage in the life of the project.
Funding is usually conditional compared with total proven and probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
onthe achievement of key milestones by the partner.
Typically there is no consideration transferred iii B uildings and infrastructure straight-line basis over 10 to 25 years.
orfunding liability on the effective date of acquisition of the interest in the project company and nogoodwill is recognised on this type of business combination.
iv Railway track including trackside equipment straight-line basis over 20 to 25 years.
The results of businesses sold during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements v Wagons and rolling stock straight-line basis over 10 to 20 years.
for the period up to the effective date of disposal.
Gains or losses on disposal are calculated as vi Machinery, equipment and other assets straight-line basis over 5 to 10 years.
thedifference between the sales proceeds net of expenses and the net assets attributable to vii Assets under construction no depreciation until asset is available for use.
theinterest which has been sold.
Where a disposal represents a separate major line of business viii Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term orgeographical area of operations, the net results attributable to the disposed entity are shown andtheir useful life.
separately in the income statement.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at least annually, andchanges to residual values and useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The concession right is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
100 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements ii d eferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 2 Principal accounting policies continued thatdoes not affect accounting profit or taxable profit and is not a business combination: norisdeferred tax provided on subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets j Impairment of property, plant and equipment andliabilities, for example where they are depreciated: and andintangibleassets excluding goodwill iii t he initial recognition of any goodwill.
Property, plant and equipment and finite life intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if there Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered isany indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the through sufficient future taxable profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment ateach balance sheet date.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, theGroup estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability belongs.
Any intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, andwhenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred taxis also taken directly to equity.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value, using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks n Provisions specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive asaresult of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle the obligation, For mining properties, estimates of future cash flows are based on assumptions as to expected anda reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
production levels, commodity prices, cash costs of production and capital expenditure.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets includes a number of restrictions on the future cash flows that can be The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to recognised in respect of future restructurings and improvement-related expenditure.
When settlethe present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks calculating value in use, it also requires that calculations should be based on exchange rates anduncertainties surrounding the obligation.
When a provision is measured using the cash flows current at the time of assessment.
For operations with a functional currency other than the estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash USdollar, the impairment review is conducted in the relevant functional currency.
flows when the effect of the time value of money is material.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount.
An impairment recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that charge is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Where an impairment subsequently reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
reverses, the carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of recoverable amount, but sothat the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying value that would have been o Provisions for decommissioning and restorationcosts determined if no impairment had previously been recognised.
A reversal is recognised in the An obligation to incur decommissioning and restoration costs occurs when environmental income statement immediately.
disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mining property.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular formal review.
k Investment property Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to Investment property is property held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation and includes theirnet present value, are provided and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the land held for a currently undetermined future use.
The Group has elected to adopt the cost model obligation to incur such costs arises.
These decommissioning costs are charged against profits in IAS 40 Investment Property.
Accordingly, investment property is measured initially at cost, over the life of the mine, through depreciation of the asset and unwinding or amortisation which includes transaction costs for the acquisition of the property and, as detailed in Note 2 i ofthediscount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while the unwinding relating to property, plant and equipment, is not depreciated.
ofthe discount is included as financing costs.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating tothe decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, l Inventory thecost of the related asset in the current period.
Inventory and work-in-progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The costs for restoration of site damage, which is created on an ongoing basis during production, Netrealisable value represents estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion are provided for at their net present values and charged against operating profits as extraction andcosts to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The production cost of inventory progresses.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to site damage created during includes an appropriate proportion of depreciation and production overheads.
Raw materials production is charged against operating profit.
andconsumables are valued at cost on a weighted average basis.
Finished products are valued atrawmaterial cost, plus labour cost and a proportion of production overhead expenses p Provision for termination of Water concession .
Under the terms of the Water concession from ECONSSA, certain items of working capital recognised by Aguas fide Antofagasta are to be transferred to the state-owned operator ECONSSA m Taxation at the end of the concession period for nil consideration.
Provision is made for the estimated net Tax expense comprises the charges or credits for the period relating to both current and deferred tax.
present value of these assets and liabilities which are expected to be in existence when the Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit may differ from net profit as concession comes to an end.
The unwinding of the discount is charged within financing costs.
reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable and deductible in different years and also excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
q Share-based payment Theliability for current tax is calculated using tax rates for each entity in the consolidated financial For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for the goods or services acquired, statements which have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At the end of each reporting period until the liability Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with any i. e. differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
The Group currently does not andthe corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is haveany equity share-based payments to employees or third parties.
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method and is provided on all temporary differenceswith certain limited exceptions as follows: i tax payable on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is provided except where the Group is able to control the remittance of profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance of past profits earned in the foreseeable future: Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 101 iv Borrowings loans and preference shares Interest-bearing loans and bank overdrafts r Post-employment benefits are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
For such measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense schemes, the amount charged to the income statement is the contributions paid or payable recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating intheyear.
the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant Employment terms may also provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year of service payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter subjectin most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based on final period.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct salary level.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
the calculation is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using the projected Amounts are either recorded as financing costs in profit or loss or capitalised in accordance unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet with the accounting policy set out in Note 2 h. Finance charges are added to the carrying represents the present value of the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses are amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they immediately recognised in income statement within operating cost.
The sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the Company carry a fixed rate ofreturn without the right to participate in any surplus.
They are accordingly classified within s Cash and cash equivalents borrowings and translated into US dollars at period-end rates of exchange.
Preference share Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks, highly liquid dividends are included within finance costs.
investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject v Equity instruments Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net toinsignificant risk of changes in value, net of bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
Equity instruments of the Company comprise its sterling denominated Cash and cash equivalents normally have a maturity period of 90 days or less.
issued ordinary share capital and related share premium.
As explained in Note 2 c, the presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the Company is US dollars, t Liquid investments and ordinary share capital and share premium are translated into US dollars at historical rates Liquid investments represent highly liquid current asset investments that do not meet the IAS 7 of exchange based on dates of issue.
definition of cash and cash equivalents, normally because even if readily accessible, the underlying vi Derivative financial instruments As explained in Note 25 e, the Group uses derivative investments have an average maturity profile greater than 90 days.
These assets are designated as financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity fair value through profit or loss.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for trading purposes.
The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: u Leases Recognition and Measurement.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement account in equal annual financial instruments that are designated and qualify as hedges of future cash flows have been amounts over the term of the lease.
recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in profit or loss in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised Assets under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at inception of the lease at the immediately in profit or loss.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments derived by discounting at in profit or loss are recorded within revenue.
The time value element of changes in the fair the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest element is charged within financing costs so as value of derivative options is excluded from the designated hedging relationship, and is toproduce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
therefore recognised directly in profit or loss within other finance items.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when v Other financial instruments their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the contracts are not carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value are reported in profit or loss for the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The treatment of embedded derivatives arising from provisionally-priced commodity i Investments Investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are initially sales contracts is set out in further detail in Note 2 d relating to revenue.
measured at cost, including transaction costs.
vii Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at fair value through Investments are classified as either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are normally profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Fair value is determined in the manner assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that as a result of one or more events described in Note 25 b.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash flows price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are measured of the investment have been impacted.
For loans and receivables the amount of the atcost.
Securities are classified as held-for-trading when they are acquired principally for the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying value and the present value of purpose of sale in the short term, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Any impairment included in profit or loss for the period.
Other investments are classified as available-for-sale, loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, within The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all the Fair value reserve, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, financial assets with the exception of trade receivables.
atwhich time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in profit or With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the loss for the period.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity investments are recognised in the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an income statement when the right to receive payment is established.
event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment ii Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not generally carry any loss is reversed through profit or loss immediately to the extent that the carrying amount of the interest and are normally stated at their nominal value less any impairment.
Impairment losses investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost on trade receivables are recognised within an allowance account unless the Group considers would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of available-for-sale that no recovery of the amount is possible, in which case the carrying value of the asset is equity instruments, any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised reduced directly.
iii Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally not interest-bearing andare normally stated at their nominal value.
102 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements c Provisions for decommissioning and site 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources restorationcosts ofestimation uncertainty As explained in Note 2 n, provision is made, based on net present values, for decommissioning Determining many of the amounts included in the financial statements involves the use and site rehabilitation costs as soon as the obligation arises following the development or ongoing ofjudgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements production of a mining property.
The provision is based on a closure plan prepared with the best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances having regard to prior experience, but assistance of external consultants.
actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and in the case of capitalised such judgements and estimates is included in the principal accounting policies in Note 2 or the decommissioning costs amortise these estimated costs over the life of the mine.
The ultimate other notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are set out below.
costof decommissioning and site rehabilitation cost is uncertain and cost estimates can vary inresponse to many factors including changes to relevant legal requirements, the emergence a Useful economic lives of property, plant and ofnew restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites.
equipment and ore reserves estimates The expected timing and extent of expenditure can also change, for example in response As explained in Note 2 i, mining properties, including capitalised financing costs, are depreciated tochanges in ore reserves or processing levels.
As a result, there could be significant adjustments in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven and probable tothe provisions established which would affect future financial results.
reserves at the beginning of the year.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and assumptions that were d Post-employment benefits valid at the time of estimation may change when new information becomes available.
These include As explained in Note 2 r, the expected costs of severance indemnities relating to employee service assumptions as to grade estimates and cut-off grades, recovery rates, commodity prices, during the period are charged to the income statement.
Any actuarial gains or losses, which can exchange rates, production costs, capital costs, processing and reclamation costs and discount arise from differences between expected and actual outcomes or changes in actuarial rates.
The actual volume of ore extracted and any changes in these assumptions could affect assumptions, are recognised immediately within operating costs in the income statement.
prospective depreciation rates and carrying values.
Assumptions in respect of the expected costs are set in consultation with an independent actuary.
The majority of other items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line These include the selection of the discount rate used, service lives and expected rates of salary basis over their useful economic lives.
Management reviews the appropriateness of useful increases.
While management believes the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the economic lives at least annually and, again, any changes could affect prospective depreciation assumptions used would impact the earnings of the Group.
rates and asset carrying values.
e Deferred taxation b Impairment of assets As explained in Note 2 m, deferred tax is not provided for future tax payable on undistributed As explained in Note 2 j, the Group reviews the carrying value of its intangible assets and property, earnings where the Group is able to control the remittance of profits and it is probable that there plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
willbe no remittance of past profits earned in the foreseeable future.
Inmaking assessments for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash flows are Management uses its judgment in estimating the probability of such remittances.
These are allocated to an appropriate cash-generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amount of those assets, basedon Group forecasts and include assumptions as to future profits and cash flows or CGU, is measured at the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
whichdepend onseveral factors including commodity prices, operating costs, production levels, Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, in estimating the capital expenditures, interest costs, debt repayment and tax rates and cash requirements probability, timing and value of underlying cash flows and in selecting appropriate discount rates whichmay also depend on several factors including future dividend levels.
A change in the tobe applied within the value in use calculation.
The key assumptions are set out in Note 2 j assumptions used orinthe estimate as to the probability that past profits will be remitted would andNote 5.
Subsequent changes to CGU allocation, licencing status, reserves and resources, impact the deferred tax charge and balance sheet provision.
price assumptions or other estimates and assumptions in the value in use calculation could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 103 4 Revenue and total profit from operations and associates An analysis of the Groups total revenue is as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Sales of goods 5,900.6 4,418.6 Rendering of services 175.4 158.5 Group revenue 6,076.0 4,577.1 Other operating income 10.7 27.6 Investment income 23.3 16.5 Total revenue 6,110.0 4,621.2 Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures and total profit from operations and associates is derived from Group revenue by deducting operating costs as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Group revenue 6,076.0 4,577.1 Cost of sales including exceptional item in 2010 2,139.9 1,475.6 Gross profit 3,936.1 3,101.5 Administrative and distribution expenses 469.7 322.3 Closure provision 16.5 69.6 Severance charges 4.3 16.1 Provision against carrying value of assets exceptional item 140.5 Exploration and evaluation expenditure 215.4 99.0 Other operating income 10.7 27.6 Other operating expenses 27.0 27.6 Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures 3,073.4 2,594.5 Share of income from associates 24.0 2.6 Total profit from operations and associates 3,097.4 2,591.9 Details of exceptional items are given in Note 5.
Included in share of income from associates is US$18.8 million for the Groups share of proceeds received in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. relating tocompensation for lost profits from the main contractor as a result of delays to the construction.
5 Exceptional item Exceptional items are those material items of income and expense which are non-regular and non-operational.
The exceptional items in the year ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 andits impact on the results are set out below.
Operating profit Profit before tax Earnings per share 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US cents US cents Before exceptional item 3,213.9 2,485.1 3,216.7 2,463.8 139.7 100.6 Provision against carrying value of assets 140.5 140.5 14.3 Reversal of impairment 109.4 109.4 6.1 After exceptional items 3,073.4 2,594.5 3,076.2 2,573.2 125.4 106.7 2011 provision against carrying value of assets The US$140.5 million provision against the carrying value of assets relates to US$120.7 million of intangible assets and US$19.8 million of property, plant and equipment relating to the Groups joint venture Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Ltd. Further details in respect of this are set out in Note 39.
2010 reversal of impairments In the year ended 31 December 2010 the reversal of the remaining US$109.4 million impairment originally recognised at El Tesoro in the year ended 31 December 2008 has been recorded as a credit within total operating costs, following a review undertaken in light of the prevailing commodity environment.
The recoverable amounts in the review were determined by a value in use calculation prepared using managements forecasts as to future commodity prices, operating costs and production volumes.
The present value of the forecast future cash flows was calculated using a discount rate of 7.6% initial impairment review 9.9%.
104 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 6 Segment information The Groups reportable segments are as follows: Los Pelambres Esperanza El Tesoro Michilla Exploration and evaluation Railway and other transport services Water concession Corporate and other items For management purposes, the Group is organised into three business divisions based on their products Mining, Railway and other transport services and the Water concession.
The mining division issplit further for management reporting purposes to show results by mine and exploration activity.
Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla are all operating mines.
Los Pelambres produces primarily copper concentrate and molybdenum as a by-product.
Esperanza produces primarily copper concentrate and gold as a by-product.
El Tesoro and Michilla both produce copper cathodes.
Thetransport division provides rail cargo based in Chile and Bolivia and road cargo based in Chile together with a number of ancillary services based in Chile.
The water division produces and distributes potable water to domestic customers and untreated water to industrial customers in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
The Exploration and evaluation segment incurs exploration and evaluation expenses.
Exploration costs relating to Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan are included within the Exploration and evaluation segment, and all other Tethyan related costs are included within Corporate and other items.
Corporate and other items also comprise costs incurred by the Company and Antofagasta Minerals S. A. the Groups mining corporate centre, that are not allocated to any individual business segment.
Consistent with its internal management reporting, the Groups corporate and other items are included within the mining division.
Management monitors the operating results of business segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated and of assessing performance.
Segment performance isevaluated based on the operating profit of each of the segments.
Operating profit excludes the share of net gain from associates of US$24.0 million year ended 31December 2010 net loss of US$2.6 million.
Operating profit is shown after exceptional items see Note 5. ii Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue from the Railway and other transport services is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of US$14.7 million year ended 31 December 2010 US$13.5 million.
Revenue from the Water concession is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of US$7.3 million year ended 31December 2010 US$10.5 million and after eliminating sales to the Railway and other transport services of US$0.2 million year ended 31 December 2010 US$0.2 million.
Revenue from Esperanza is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales of the Run-Of-Mine oxides to El Tesoro of US$16.4 million.
The payment of US$350 million by El Tesoro to Antofagasta Minerals S. A. during2010 for the right to extract the oxide ores from the Mirador deposit has been eliminated on consolidation and so does not form part of the above figures.
iii Revenue includes the effect of both final pricing and mark-to-market adjustments to provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates and copper cathodes.
Further details of such adjustments are given in Note 25 d. iv Revenue includes a realised gain on commodity derivatives at El Tesoro of US$0.5 million year ended 31 December 2010 gain of US$0.1 million and a realised loss at Michilla of US$15.6 million year ended 31 December 2010 loss of US$81.5 million.
Further details of such gains or losses are given in Note 25 e. v The copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges.
Tolling charges for copper and molybdenum concentrates are detailed in Note 25 d. vi The exceptional item affecting operating profit in 2011 relates to the impairment of Reko Diq 2010 relates to a reversal of the impairment at El Tesoro see Note 5. vii The effects of tax and non-controlling interests on the expenses within the Exploration and evaluation segment are allocated to the mine that the exploration work relates to.
viii Capital expenditure represents purchases of property, plant and equipment stated on an accruals basis see Note 14 and may therefore differ from the amount included in the cash flow statement.
ix The assets of the Railway and transport services segment includes US$74.3 million year ended 31 December 2010 US$53.1 million relating to the Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. Inversiones Hornitos, which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region and US$6.0 million year ended 31 December 2010 US$4.9 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal International S. A. ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
The assets of Corporate and others items segment includes US$ 4.5 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayan S. A. an energy company which has been formed to construct and operate awind farmin Chile.
106 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 6 Segment information continued b Entity-wide disclosures Revenue by product 2011 2010 US$m US$m Copper Los Pelambres 3,255.9 2,972.1 Esperanza 646.4 El Tesoro 827.8 739.7 Michilla 355.0 242.0 Molybdenum Los Pelambres 293.8 303.5 Gold Los Pelambres 63.9 43.4 Esperanza 251.3 Silver Los Pelambres 63.0 29.3 Esperanza 25.2 Total Mining 5,782.3 4,330.0 Railway and transport services 178.8 154.7 Water concession 114.9 92.4 6,076.0 4,577.1 Revenue by location of customer 2011 2010 US$m US$m Europe Switzerland 215.7 106.5 Rest of Europe 722.2 665.3 Latin America Chile 364.8 322.3 Rest of Latin America 208.2 229.6 North America United States 229.9 176.6 Rest of North America 3.9 Asia Japan 2,268.9 1,583.1 China 1,145.4 878.1 Rest of Asia 920.9 611.7 6,076.0 4,577.1 Information about major customers Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2011 are revenues of approximately US$1,241.2 million and US$634.7 million of sales by Los Pelambres and Esperanza to the Groups largest customers year ended 31 December 2010 revenues from Los Pelambres of approximately US$792.2 million and US$569.1 million.
These are the only customers that individually account for more than 10% of the Groups revenues.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 107 Non-current assets by location of assets 2011 2010 US$m US$m Chile 6,628.6 6,330.4 Bolivia 32.3 32.5 Pakistan 140.9 USA 92.0 4.4 Other 1.0 1.3 6,753.9 6,509.5 Non-current assets balance disclosed by location of asset excludes financial instruments, available for sale investments and deferred tax assets.
7 Profit for the year Profit for the year is stated after charging crediting: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Foreign exchange gains included in net finance costs 14.2 9.6 included in income tax expense 2.1 0.6 Amortisation of intangible asset included in cost of sales 14.7 14.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 404.7 260.9 assets held under finance leases 12.3 1.4 Property and equipment written-off 18.8 9.8 Impairments of property, plant and equipment exceptional item 140.5 Reversal of impairments of property, plant and equipment exceptional item 109.4 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 1,617.2 1,227.9 Employee benefit expense 301.0 208.7 Auditors remuneration audit services 0.7 0.5 non-audit services 1.3 0.8 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Audit fees Fees payable for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 208 126 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 179 140 the audit of the Companys subsidiaries as part of the audit of the consolidated financial statements 279 247 Total audit fees 666 513 Audited related services 665 328 Total fees for audit and audit-related services 1,331 841 Other non-audit fees Tax compliance services 23 18 Other taxation advisory services 22 98 Corporate finance services 218 Other services 644 176 Total other non-audit service fees 689 510 Total auditors remuneration 2,020 1,351 Audit-related services of US$665,000 in 2011 US$328,000 in 2010 relate mainly to reviewing of the half-yearly financial report pursuant to legislation, assistance with local IFRS implementation andreview of IFRS 2010 pro-forma financial statements.
Other services of US$644,000 in 2011 relates mainly to fees paid by Los Pelambres for environmental advisory services relating to monitoring of compliance with environmental commitments.
Details of companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reason why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 79.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
108 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 8 Employee benefit expense a Average number of employees 2011 2010 Number Number Los Pelambres 816 723 Esperanza 753 582 El Tesoro 526 527 Michilla 589 566 Exploration and evaluation 36 31 Corporate and other employees Chile 259 188 United Kingdom 10 8 Other 83 134 Mining 3,072 2,759 Railway and other transport services 1,606 1,558 Water concession 278 280 4,956 4,597 i The average number of employees for the year includes all the employees of subsidiaries and the Groups share of employees of jointly controlled entities.
The average number of employees does not include contractors who are not directly employed by the Group.
ii The average number of employees does not include employees from associates.
iii The average number of employees includes the Executive Director but does not include Non-Executive Directors.
b Aggregated remuneration The aggregated remuneration of the employees included in the table above was as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 286.9 237.9 Social security costs 9.8 7.7 Post-employment benefits severance charge in the year 4.3 16.1 301.0 261.7 From the above, no amounts relating to Esperanza were capitalised in 2011 2010 US$53.0 million have been capitalised.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 109 c Key management personnel In accordance with IAS 24, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any Directors Executive and Non-Executive of the Company.
Key management personnel who are not Directors have been treated as those responsible senior management at the Corporate Centre and for the running of the key business divisions of the Group and prior year amounts have been restated accordingly.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 20.1 17.2 Post-employment benefits severance charge in the year 0.5 0.6 20.6 17.8 Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 including those specified for audit by that Schedule are included in the Remuneration report on pages 82 to 85.
9 Net finance expense 2011 2010 US$m US$m Investment revenue Interest receivable 23.3 16.5 Interest expense Interest payable 93.0 16.4 Amortisation of deferred finance costs 1.7 Preference dividends 0.2 0.2 93.2 18.3 Other finance items Time value effect of derivatives 49.1 16.1 Foreign exchange derivatives 3.3 6.1 Unwinding of discount on provisions 11.3 4.3 Foreign exchange 14.2 9.6 48.7 16.9 Net finance expense 21.2 18.7 An expense of US$2.2 million 2010 expense of US$32.4 million relating to net interest expense and other finance items at Esperanza was capitalised within the development expenditure of that project during the year, and is consequently not included within the above table.
110 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 10 Taxation The tax charge for the year comprised the following: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Current tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 541.5 437.4 Mining tax Royalty 203.2 147.3 Withholding tax provision 218.5 47.4 Exchange gains on corporate tax balances 2.1 0.6 965.3 631.5 Deferred tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 75.8 2.9 Mining tax Royalty 3.4 10.4 Withholding tax provision 91.5 113.5 19.1 121.0 Total tax charge Income tax expense 946.2 752.5 The rate of first category i. e. corporation tax in Chile was increased to 20.0% in 2011 from 17.0% in 2010.
A temporary increase in the corporate tax rate for the 2011 and 2012 calendar years to 20.0% and 18.5% respectively was enacted into law in Chile on 31 July 2010.
Los Pelambres, El Tesoro, Michilla and Esperanza are also subject to a mining tax royalty which is tax deductible i. e. an allowable expense in determining liability to first category tax.
On 12 January 2011 the Group voluntarily elected to accept amendments to the mining tax as permitted pursuant to a law enacted in Chile on 21 October 2010.
Between 20102012, production from Los Pelambres, ElTesoro, Michilla and Esperanza mines is subject to a mining tax at a rate of between 4%9% of tax-adjusted operating profit, based on a sliding scale with the minimum rate of 4% applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin of below 40% and a maximum rate of 9% applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin of above 75%.
Production from Tesoro North-East deposit and the Run-of-Mine processing at El Tesoro is subject to a mining tax at a rate of between 5%14% of tax-adjusted operating profit, based on a sliding scale with the minimum rate of 5% applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin below 35% and a maximum rate of 14% applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin of above 85%.
In addition to first category tax and the mining tax, the Group incurs withholding taxes on the remittance of profits from Chile and deferred tax is provided on undistributed earnings to the extent thatremittance is probable in the foreseeable future.
Withholding tax is levied on remittances of profits from Chile at 35% less first category tax already paid.
Accordingly during the year ended 31December 2011 the effective tax rate of withholding tax is approximately 18% of the amount remitted or expected to be remitted.
2011 2010 US$m % US$m % Profit before tax 3,076.2 2,573.2 Tax at the Chilean corporation tax rate of 20% for 2011 2010 17% 615.2 20.0 437.4 17.0 Tax effect of share of results of associate 4.8 0.2 0.4 Provision against carrying value of assets not deductible from first category tax 28.1 0.9 Other items not subject to or deductible from first category tax 3.4 0.1 3.3 0.1 Effect of deferred tax rates provided at rates lower than current year first category tax rate 24.6 0.7 Royalty 199.8 6.5 157.7 6.1 Withholding taxes provided in year 127.0 4.1 160.9 6.3 Exchange differences 2.1 0.1 0.6 Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 946.2 30.8 752.5 29.2 The tax charge for the year was US$946.2 million and the effective tax rate was 30.8%.
This rate varies from the standard rate principally due to the provision of withholding tax of US$127.0 million and the effect of the mining tax which resulted in a charge of US$199.8 million.
In 2010 the total tax charge was US$752.5 million and the effective tax rate was 29.2%.
This rate varies from the standard rate principally due to the provision of withholding tax of US$160.9 million and the effect of the mining tax which resulted in a charge of US$157.7 million.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 111 11 Earnings per share 2011 2010 US$m US$m Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company Net earnings 1,236.6 1,051.8 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company Net earnings excluding exceptional items 1,377.1 991.3 2011 2010 Number Number Ordinary shares in issue throughout each year 985,856,695 985,856,695 2011 2010 US cents US cents Basic and diluted earnings per share 125.4 106.7 Basic and diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items 139.7 100.6 Basic and diluted earnings per share is calculated as profit after tax and non-controlling interests, based on 985,856,695 ordinary shares.
There was no potential dilution of earnings per share in either year set out above, and therefore diluted earnings per share did not differ from basic earnings per share as disclosed above.
Basic and diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items is calculated on profit after tax and non-controlling interest giving net earnings, excluding exceptional items and related tax and non-controlling interest, of US$1,377.1 million.
12 Dividends Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2011 2010 2011 2010 US cents US cents US$m US$m per share per share Final dividend paid in June proposed in relation to the previous year ordinary 118.3 59.2 12.0 6.0 special 985.9 138.0 100.0 14.0 1,104.2 197.2 112.0 20.0 Interim dividend paid in October ordinary 78.8 39.4 8.0 4.0 78.8 39.4 8.0 4.0 1,183.0 236.6 120.0 24.0 The proposed final dividend for each year, which is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has therefore not been included as a liability in these financial statements, isasfollows: 2011 2010 2011 2010 US cents US cents US$m US$m per share per share Final dividend proposed in relation to the year ordinary 118.3 118.3 12.0 12.0 special 236.6 985.9 24.0 100.0 354.9 1,104.2 36.0 112.0 This gives total dividends proposed in relation to 2011 including the interim dividend of 44 cents per share or US$433.8 million 2010 116.0 cents per share or US$1,104.2 million.
In accordance with IAS 32, preference dividends have been included within interest expense see Note 9 and amounted to US$0.2 million 2010 US$0.2 million.
Dividends are declared in US Dollars, which is the default currency for payment.
In addition, Antofagasta has now made arrangements for shareholders to elect to receive dividend payments in Pounds Sterling or Euro.
Shareholders who do not elect will be paid by a cheque denominated in US Dollars.
Any shareholder who elects to receive their dividend in Euro will be paid by a cheque denominated inEuro.
Any shareholder who elects to receive their dividend in Pounds Sterling may instruct the Companys registrar to pay the dividends by bank transfer directly into a Pounds Sterling bank account: otherwise that shareholder will receive a cheque denominated in Pounds Sterling.
Should a shareholder wish to change their current election, the Companys registrar must receive any such election beforethe currency election date for the relevant dividend.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend of 36 cents per ordinary share will be paid on 14 June 2012 to shareholders on theregister at the close of business on 11 May 2012.
The final currency election date for the final dividend will be 14 May 2012.
The conversion rate for final dividends to be paid in Pounds Sterling or Euro willbe set on 17 May 2012.
Further details relating to dividends for each year are given in the Directors report on page 86.
112 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 13 Intangible assets Total Concession Exploration intangible licences assets rights US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2010 245.1 125.7 370.8 Reclassification 5.3 5.3 Disposal 5.0 5.0 Foreign currency exchange difference 20.9 20.9 At 31 December 2010 and 1 January 2011 271.3 120.7 392.0 Foreign currency exchange difference 29.5 29.5 At 31 December 2011 241.8 120.7 362.5 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2010 59.6 59.6 Charge for the year 14.7 14.7 Foreign currency exchange difference 6.2 6.2 At 31 December 2010 and 1 January 2011 80.5 80.5 Charge for the year 14.7 14.7 Provision against carrying value of assets see Note 5 120.7 120.7 Foreign currency exchange difference 8.7 8.7 At 31 December 2011 86.5 120.7 207.2 Net book value At 31 December 2011 155.3 155.3 At 31 December 2010 190.8 120.7 311.5 The concession right relates to the 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile which the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary, Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. acquired in December 2003 and any other subsequent additions or acquisitions subject to the terms of the concession.
This intangible asset is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
The US$120.7 million provision against the carrying value of exploration licences relates to the Groups joint venture Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Ltd. Further details in respect of this are set out inNotes5 and 39.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to US$126.1 million 2010 US$60.6 million.
Compensation from insurance companies related to property, plant and equipment included in the consolidated income statement was US$0.9 million in 2011 2010 US$0.5 million.
At 31 December 2011 nil 2010 US$23.2 million depreciation in respect of assets relating to the Esperanza project has been capitalised within the development cost of that project and US$23.9 million 2010 US$12.7 million of depreciation in respect of assets relating to Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla have been capitalised within inventories, and accordingly is excluded from the depreciation charge recorded in the income statement as shown in Note 6 a.
The US$19.8 million provision in 2011 against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment relates to assets held by the Groups joint venture Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Ltd. Further details inrespect of this are set out in Notes 5 and 39.
At 31 December 2010 the reversal of impairment of US$109.4 million relates to property, plant and equipment at El Tesoro.
114 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 15 Investment property 2011 2010 US$m US$m Cost Balance at the beginning of the year 3.7 3.4 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.6 0.3 Balance at the end of the year 3.1 3.7 Investment property represents the Groups forestry properties, which are held for long-term potential and accordingly classified as investment property and held at cost as permitted by IAS 40.
The fair value of the Groups investment property at 31 December 2011 was US$11.0 million 2010 US$11.0 million, based on an independent valuation carried out during 2008 by Gabriel Durn, whois not connected with the Group.
Mr. Durn is a Forestry Engineer, Valuer and Assessor of forestry properties for Banco Itau in Chile, with extensive experience of valuation in the region where the assets are located.
The valuation was based on market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
Direct operating expenses principally ongoing maintenance costs arising on these properties amounted to US$0.2 million 2010 US$0.3 million.
16 Investments in subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries of the Group, the percentage of equity owned and the main country of operation are set out below.
These interests are consolidated within these financial statements.
TheGroup has restricted the information to its principal subsidiaries as full compliance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 would result in a statement of excessive length.
A full list ofsubsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next annual return of Antofagasta plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Country of incorporation Country of operations Nature of business Economic interest Direct subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Railway Company plc Great Britain Chile Railway 100% Minera Anaconda Per S. A. Peru Peru Mining 100% Chilean Northern Mines Limited Great Britain Chile Investment 100% Sierra Gorda Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey Investment 100% Indirect subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Minerals S. A. Chile Chile Mining 100% Minera Los Pelambres Chile Chile Mining 60% Minera El Tesoro Chile Chile Mining 70% Minera Michilla S. A. Chile Chile Mining 74.2% Minera Esperanza Chile Chile Mining 70% Equatorial Mining Limited Australia Chile Mining 100% Antofagasta Services Limited Great Britain Great Britain Group services 100% Los Pelambres Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey Investment 100% Inversiones Los Pelambres Chile Limitada Chile Chile Investment 100% Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. Chile Chile Water distribution 100% Atacama Aguas y Tecnologa Limitada Chile Chile Water distribution 100% Servicios fide Transportes Integrados Limitada Chile Chile Road transport 100% Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. Bolivia Bolivia Railway 50% Minera Mulpn Limitada Chile Chile Mining 100% Minera Antucoya Limitada Chile Chile Mining 100% Twin Metals Minnesota LLC USA USA Mining 40% Forestal S. A. Chile Chile Forestry 100% The Group exercises management control over the boards of Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. and Twin Metals Minnesota LLC.
Accordingly, these investments are treated as subsidiaries and are consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 115 17 Investment in associates Total Total Inversiones Hornitos ATI El Arrayan associates associates 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 53.1 4.9 58.0 121.3 Acquisitions 4.5 4.5 Disposals 2.3 Capital reductions 57.2 Interest expense capitalised by associate payable to subsidiary 0.5 0.5 0.4 Share of net profit loss before tax 26.4 2.8 29.2 1.9 Share of tax 4.7 0.5 5.2 0.7 Share of income loss from associates 21.7 2.3 24.0 2.6 Dividends received 1.2 1.2 0.8 Balance at the end of the year 74.3 6.0 4.5 84.8 58.0 Included in share of income from associates is US$18.8 million for the Groups share of proceeds received in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. relating to compensation for lost profits from the main contractor asa result of delays to the construction.
The investments which are included in the US$84.8 million balance at 31 December 2011 are set out below: i The Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones, in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
During 2010 a capital restructuring of Inversiones Hornitos took place, with the FCABs previous capital contributions being reduced by US$57.2 million and replaced with loan financing from the FCAB, with the FCAB contributing US$78.6 million of further loan financing to Inversiones Hornitos during the year.
The balance due from Inversiones Hornitos to the Group at 31 December 2011 wasUS$83.8million year ended 31 December 2010 US$101.1 million.
The loan has an interest rate of LIBOR 180 days plus 2.5%.
ii The Groups 30% interest in ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
iii The Groups 30% interest in El Arrayan Project, which will develop and operate a 115MW wind power plant which is expected to begin construction in early 2012 and achieve commercial operation inthe second half of 2013.
The Groups share of the summarised financial information of investment in associates is as follows: Inversiones Total Total Hornitos ATI El Arrayan associates associates 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total assets after fair value adjustments 174.6 23.4 4.7 202.7 447.6 Total liabilities 101.5 16.8 0.2 118.5 301.2 Revenue 58.7 12.8 71.5 11.5 Profit after tax and non-controlling interests 21.7 2.3 24.0 1.3 116 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 18 Joint venture agreements a Tethyan Copper Company Limited In 2006, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Tethyan Copper Company Limited now Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Limited, and then entered into a joint venture agreement with Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick, to establish a 50:50 joint venture in relation to Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Limiteds mineral interests in Pakistan.
From the date of incorporation to 2011, Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Limited has been wholly engaged in mineral exploration and evaluation activities and did not generate any revenue.
Limiteds operating loss resulting during the year was US$23.7 million 2010 US$25.5 million.
In addition, the Group has made a provision of US$140.5 million against the carrying value in the Group accounts of its 50% share of the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Further details in respect of this are set out in Note 39.
The following amounts represent the Groups 50% share of the assets and liabilities, and results of the jointly-controlled entity, and are included in the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated income statement of the Group under the proportionate consolidation method: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Total non-current assets 137.2 Total current assets 2.4 3.2 Total current liabilities 5.0 3.9 Total non-current liabilities 0.2 0.3 Groups share of jointly controlled entitys net assets 2.8 136.2 Operating loss 8.2 12.8 Provision against carrying value of assets see Note 5 140.5 Net finance income 0.1 Groups share of jointly controlled entitys results 148.7 12.7 In addition to these amounts, the Group incurred expenses of US$2.4 million 2010 US$4.0 million relating to Tethyan which are included in Corporate and other items.
In October 2008 Energa Andina S. A. Energa Andina was formed as a vehicle for the exploration and exploitation of potential sources of geothermal energy.
Initially the company was 60% owned by the Group and 40% owned by Empresa Nacional del Petrleo ENAP of Chile.
On 6 May 2011 ENAP sold its 40% shareholding in Energa Andina to Origin Energy Geothermal Chile Limitada Origin.
Control over the key operational and financial decisions in respect of the company are jointly exercised by the Group and Origin, and accordingly the company is accounted for as a jointly-controlled entity, with results included in the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated income statement of the Group under the proportionate consolidation method.
In 2011 and 2010, Energa Andina S. A. was wholly engaged in geothermal exploration and evaluation activities and did not generate any revenue in the period after its incorporation.
The operating loss resulting from Energa Andina S. A. for the year was US$12.7 million 2010 US$6.7 million, which relates mainly to exploration and evaluation costs expensed in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, and of which 60% is attributable to the Group.
The following amounts represent the Groups 60% share of the assets and liabilities, and results of the jointly-controlled entity, and are included in the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated income statement of the Group under proportional consolidated method: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Total current assets 4.3 4.1 Groups share of jointly controlled entitys net assets 4.3 4.1 Operating loss 7.6 4.0 Groups share of jointly controlled entitys results 7.6 4.0 Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 117 19 Available-for-sale investments 2011 2010 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 21.8 1.2 Additions 27.3 12.9 Movements in fair value 12.3 6.8 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.3 0.9 Balance at the end of the year 36.5 21.8 Available-for-sale investments represent those investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and are not held for trading purposes.
In February 2011 the Group subscribed to a further 7.6 million additional shares in Duluth Metals for a total subscription price of US$19.9 million, representing approximately 6% of Duluth Metals enlarged issued share capital.
Including the earlier share purchases in 2010, at 31 December 2011 the Group held approximately 11% of the Duluth Metals share capital.
In February 2011 the Group subscribed to 1.5 million of shares in Eurasian Minerals Inc. for a total subscription price of US$5.1 million, equating to approximately 3% of Eurasian Minerals enlarged issued share capital.
In September 2011, Antofagasta subscribed 10.3 million shares in Stratex International plc for a subscription price of US$1.3 million, representing 3% of Stratex Internationals enlarged issued share capital.
In October 2011, Antofagasta subscribed 7.4 million shares in Sipa Resources Limited for a subscription price of US$1.0 million, representing 1.9% of Sipa Resources Limiteds enlarged issued share capital.
The investments which are included in the US$36.5 million balance at 31 December 2011 are set out below: i US$29.0 million relating to the market value of shares in Duluth Metals Limited.
ii US$2.3 million relating to the market value of shares in Panoro Minerals Limited which were acquired as part consideration for the disposal in 2008 of the Groups share of the joint venture entity Cordillera fide las Minas S. A. iii US$3.2 million relating to the market value of shares in Eurasian Minerals Inc. iv US$1.1 million relating to the market value of share in Stratex International plc.
v US$0.8 million relating to the market value of share in Sipa Resources Limited.
vi US$0.1 million relating to the market value of other investments.
20 Inventories 2011 2010 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 148.0 106.4 Work-in-progress 346.5 234.0 Finished goods 46.0 44.6 540.5 385.0 Work-in-progress includes the following balances which are expected to be processed more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: i US$31.9 million 2010 US$29.4 million relating to long-term inventories at Los Pelambres.
ii US$3.6 million 2010 US$4.5 million relating to high carbonate ore inventories at El Tesoro.
iii US$69.5 million 2010 US$27.4 million relating long-term inventories at Esperanza.
118 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 21 Trade and other receivables Due in one year Due after one year Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade debtors 712.3 704.1 0.5 0.5 712.8 704.6 Other debtors 212.6 269.6 67.2 42.4 279.8 312.0 924.9 973.7 67.7 42.9 992.6 1,016.6 The largest balances of trade receivables are held with equity participants in the key mining projects.
Many other significant trade receivables are secured by letters of credit or other forms of security.
Theaverage credit period given on sale of goods and rendering of service is 42 days 2010 55 days.
There is no material element which is interest-bearing.
Trade debtors include mark-to-market adjustments in respect of provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates which remain open as to final pricing: where these have resulted in credit balances, these have been reclassified to trade creditors.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 3.4 3.0 Charge for the year 0.8 0.3 Unused amounts reversed 0.1 0.1 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.2 0.2 Balance at the end of the year 3.9 3.4 The ageing analysis of the trade receivables balance is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor Up to 3 months 36 months More than impaired past due past due 6 months past due Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2011 988.9 2.4 0.3 1.0 992.6 2010 1,005.6 9.8 0.5 0.7 1,016.6 With respect to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
The carrying value of the trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Other debtors include US$ 10.3 million 2010 US$18.5 million relating to pre-payments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment.
22 Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments The fair value of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are not materially different from the carrying values presented.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was comprised of: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 1,335.1 2,734.7 Liquid investments 1,944.9 806.9 3,280.0 3,541.6 At 31 December 2011 there is no cash which is subject to restriction 2010 US$50.9 million.
The currency exposure of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m US dollars 3,081.5 3,445.5 Chilean pesos 165.4 66.2 Australian dollars 27.1 28.7 Sterling 4.4 0.5 Other 1.6 0.7 3,280.0 3,541.6 Details of cross-currency swaps in place at the end of the year are given in Note 25 e ii.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 119 23 Borrowings a Analysis by type of borrowing Borrowings may be analysed by business segment and type as follows: 2011 2010 Notes US$m US$m Los Pelambres Corporate loans i 492.5 625.2 Finance leases ii 32.4 Esperanza Project financing iii 1,008.7 1,008.7 Subordinated debt iv 227.7 212.4 Short-term loans v 30.0 Finance leases vi 7.4 4.3 El Tesoro Corporate loan vii 296.2 296.4 Finance leases viii 0.2 Corporate and other items Finance leases ix 36.0 39.5 Railway and other transport services Loans x 6.3 6.3 Water concession Finance leases 0.4 Other Preference shares xi 3.1 3.1 Total 2,140.3 2,196.5 i Corporate loans at Los Pelambres are unsecured and US dollar denominated.
These loans have a remaining term between 3 and 5.5 years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus margins between 0.9% 1.6%.
ii Finance leasing at Los Pelambres are US dollar denominated, comprising US$21.9 million at fixed rate of 0.47% and US$10.5 million at LIBOR three-month rate plus 3%, with remaining duration ofsix years.
iii Senior debt at Esperanza comprises US$1,008.7 million in respect of syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining term of 10 years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus margins between 1.375% 3.000%.
The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had entered into a contract for a maximum notional amount ofUS$840.0 million at a weighted average fixed rate of 3.372% maturing in February 2018. iv This balance includes long-term subordinated debt provided to Esperanza by Marubeni Corporation with a duration of eight years and weighted average interest rate of LIBOR six-months plus 3.75%.
v Short-term loans at Esperanza comprise US$30.0 million from local banks with an average duration of 12 months and weighted average interest rate fixed of 0.99%.
vi Finance leasing at Esperanza are US dollar denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of three years and with an average interest rate at approximately LIBOR three-months plus 2.8%.
vii The corporate loans at El Tesoro are US dollar denominated.
This loan has approximately four years remaining, with an interest rate over the life of the loan of LIBOR six-months plus 1.2%.
viii Finance leases at El Tesoro are US dollar denominated, and are fixed rate with an average interest rate of 1.09%.
ix Finance leases at Corporate and other items are denominated in Unidades fide Fomento i. e. inflation-linked Chilean pesos and have a remaining duration of 17 years and a fixed rate of 5.29%.
x Railway and other transport services includes a balance of US$6.1 million related with bonds issued in the Bolivian stock market to refinance short-term loans with a fixed interest rate of 5.5% andduration of four years.
The balance at 31 December 2011 also includes customer advances of US$0.2 million.
xi The preference shares are sterling-denominated and issued by the Company.
There were 2,000,000 shares of 1 each authorised, issued and fully paid at 31 December 2011.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
On winding up they are entitled to repayment and any arrears of dividend in priority to ordinary shareholders, but are not entitled to participate further in any surplus.
Each preference share carries 100 votes in any general meeting of the Company.
120 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 23 Borrowings continued b Analysis of borrowings by currency The exposure of the Groups borrowings to currency risk is as follows: 2011 Pesos Sterling US dollars Total At 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,797.4 1,797.4 Other loans including short-term loans 264.0 264.0 Finance leases 35.3 40.5 75.8 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 35.3 3.1 2,101.9 2,140.3 2010 Pesos Sterling US dollars Total At 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,930.3 1,930.3 Other loans including short-term loans 218.7 218.7 Finance leases 44.4 44.4 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 44.4 3.1 2,149.0 2,196.5 c Analysis of borrowings by type of interest rate The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate risk is as follows: 2011 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,797.4 1,797.4 Other loans including short-term loans 6.3 257.7 264.0 Finance leases 57.9 17.9 75.8 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 67.3 2,073.0 2,140.3 2010 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,930.3 1,930.3 Other loans including short-term loans 6.3 212.4 218.7 Finance leases 44.4 44.4 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 53.8 2,142.7 2,196.5 The above floating rate corporate loans include the project financing at Esperanza, where the Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2011 and 2010 the Group had entered into contracts for a maximum notional amount of US$840.0 million at a weighted average fixed rate of 3.372% maturing in February 2018.
At 31 December 2010 the Group had entered into contracts for a maximum notional amount of US$787.8 million at a weighted average fixed rate of 1.353% maturing in February 2011.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 121 d Maturity profile The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Within Between Between After 2011 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 261.8 330.0 671.7 533.9 1,797.4 Other loans 31.6 1.6 3.1 227.7 264.0 Finance leases 8.5 9.5 21.7 36.1 75.8 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 301.9 341.1 696.5 800.8 2,140.3 Within Between Between After 2010 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 134.6 329.3 853.9 612.5 1,930.3 Other loans 0.2 1.5 4.6 212.4 218.7 Finance leases 2.8 3.7 6.5 31.4 44.4 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 137.6 334.5 865.0 859.4 2,196.5 The amounts included above for finance leases are based on the present value of minimum lease payments.
The total minimum lease payments for these finance leases may be analysed as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Within 1 year 12.0 5.0 Between 12 years 12.6 5.7 Between 25 years 27.0 11.8 After 5 years 46.7 43.1 Total minimum lease payment 98.3 65.6 Less amounts representing finance charges 22.5 21.2 Present value of minimum lease payment 75.8 44.4 All leases are on a fixed payment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
e Borrowings facilities The undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at the end of each year, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at those dates, were as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Expiring in one year or less 1,252.6 989.1 Expiring in more than one but not more than two years 49.4 103.4 1,302.0 1,092.5 The available facilities comprise general working capital facilities at the Groups operating subsidiaries all of which were undrawn at the end of each year.
Of these facilities, US$1,095.4 million 2010 US$955.4 million are denominated in US dollars, US$135.4 million 2010 US$68.8 million in Unidades fide Fomento i. e. inflation-linked Chilean pesos, US$20.7 million 2010 nil in Euro and US$50.5 million 2010 US$68.3 million in Chilean pesos.
24 Trade and other payables Due in one year Due after one year Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade creditors 274.6 278.5 274.6 278.5 Other creditors and accruals 229.3 226.3 9.3 4.7 238.6 231.0 503.9 504.8 9.3 4.7 513.2 509.5 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 46 days 2010 32 days.
122 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 25 Financial instruments and financial risk Total Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2011 2010 management US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Categories of financial instruments Financial assets The Groups financial instruments, grouped according to the categories defined in IAS 39 Derivatives in designated hedge Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, were as follows: accounting relationships 59.0 59.0 1.8 Available for sale investments 36.5 36.5 21.8 2011 2010 US$m US$m Debtors mark-to-market 4.3 4.3 130.1 Financial assets Fair value through profit and loss 1,944.9 1,944.9 806.9 Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 59.0 1.8 Financial liabilities Available for sale investments 36.5 21.8 Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 34.9 34.9 113.7 Loans and receivables at amortised cost including cash and cash equivalents 2,327.7 3,751.3 Creditors mark-to-market 20.1 20.1 Fair value through profit and loss liquid investments 1,944.9 806.9 1,981.4 8.3 1,989.7 846.9 Financial liabilities There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 during the year.
Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 34.9 113.7 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 2,653.5 2,706.0 c Financial risk management 1,679.7 1,762.1 The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange b Fair value of financial instruments andinterest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: trading purposes.
the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk management framework.
andtraded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices: TheBoard has established the Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for developing the fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments and monitoring the Groups risk management policies.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions: and tothe Risk Management Committee.
the fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices i Commodity price risk are not available, use is made of discounted cash flow analysis based on the applicable yield The Group generally sells its copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathodes output curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models atprevailing market prices, subject to final pricing adjustments which may be 30 to 120 days after for optional derivatives.
delivery to the customer, and it is therefore exposed to changes in market prices for copper and The fair value of each category of financial asset and liability is not materially different from the molybdenum both in respect of future sales and previous sales which remain open as to final carrying values presented for either 2011 or 2010. pricing.
In 2011, sales of copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathodes represented The following table provides an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured subsequent 88.5% of Group turnover and therefore revenues and earnings depend significantly on LME and to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair realised copper prices.
value is observable: The Group uses futures, min-max instruments and options to manage its exposure to copper level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active prices.
These instruments may give rise to accounting volatility due to fluctuations in their fair value markets for identical assets or liabilities: prior to the maturity of the instruments.
Details of those copper and molybdenum concentrate sales and copper cathode sales which remain open as to final pricing are given in Note 25 d. level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included Details of commodity rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 25 e. within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Commodity price sensitivity level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that includeinputs The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the copper price on the financial for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
instruments held as at the reporting date.
A movement in the copper forward price as at the reporting date will affect the final pricing adjustment to sales which remain open at that date, impacting the trade receivables balance and consequently the income statement.
A movement inthe copper forward price will also affect the valuation of commodity derivatives, impacting the hedging reserve in equity if the fair value movement relates to an effective designated cash flow hedge, and impacting the income statement if it does not.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as currency rates, remain constant.
If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had increased by 10 cents, net earnings would have decreased by US$13.2 million 2010 increased by US$6.1 million and hedgingreserves in equity would have decreased by US$14.3 million 2010 decreased byUS$34.9million.
If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had decreased by 10 cents, net earnings would have increased by US$3.9 million 2010 decreased by US$5.4 million and hedgingreserves in equity would have increased by US$24.0 million 2010 increased byUS$29.2 million.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 123 In addition, a movement in the average copper price during the year would impact revenue and Interest rate sensitivity earnings.
A 10 cents change in the average copper price during the year would have affected net The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in interest rates in relation to earnings by US$68.3 million 2010 US$55.7 million and earnings per share by 6.9 cents thefinancial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The impact on profit or loss is as a result 2010 5.6 cents, based on production volumes in 2011, without taking into account the effects ofthe effect on interest expense in respect of floating rate borrowings, and interest income in of provisional pricing and hedging activity.
A US$1 change in the average molybdenum price respect of cash and cash equivalents.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair forthe year would have affected net earnings by US$9.8 million 2010 US$8.9 million, and value ofderivative instruments which are effective designated cash flow hedges.
The calculation earnings per share by 1.0 cents 2010 0.9 cents, based on production volumes in 2011, and assumes that all other variables, such as currency rates, remain constant.
without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
A US$100 change in the average gold If the interest rate increased by 1%, based on the financial instruments held as at the reporting price for the year would have affected net earnings by US$10.3 million 2010 US$1.6 million, date, net earnings would have increased by US$10.6 million 2010 US$19.9 million and and earnings per share by 1.0 cents 2010 0.2 cents, based on production volumes in 2011, hedging reserves in equity would have increased by US$6.6 million 2010 US$10.5 million.
and without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
Thisdoes not include the effect on the income statement of changes in the fair value of the Groups liquid investments relating to the underlying investments in fixed income instruments.
ii Currency risk The Group is exposed to a variety of currencies.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in which iv Other price risk the majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the countries The Group is exposed to equity price risk on its available-for-sale equity investments.
in which the Groups operations are based principally in Chile as well as those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
After the US dollar, the Chilean Equity price sensitivity peso is the most important currency influencing costs and to a lesser extent sales.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the equity values of the available-for-sale financial assets held as at the reporting date.
Given the significance of the US dollar to the Groups operations, this is the presentational currency of the Group for internal and external reporting.
The US dollar is also the currency for borrowing If the value of the available-for-sale investments had increased by 10% as at the reporting date, and holding surplus cash, although a portion of this may be held in other currencies, notably equity would have increased by US$3.7 million 2010 US$2.2 million.
There would have been Chilean pesos and sterling, to meet short-term operational and capital commitments and no impact on the income statement.
v Cash flow risk When considered appropriate, the Group uses forward exchange contracts and currency swaps The Groups future cash flows depend on a number of factors, including commodity prices, tolimit the effects of movements in exchange rates in foreign currency denominated assets and production and sales levels, operating costs, capital expenditure levels and financial income and liabilities.
The Group may also use these instruments to reduce currency exposure on future costs.
Its cash flows are therefore subject to the exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks transactions and cash flows.
Details of any exchange rate derivatives entered by the Group described above as well as operational factors and input costs.
Further information on production intheyear are given in Note 25 e. and sales levels and operating costs are given in the Operational review on pages 26 to 45.
The currency exposure of the Groups cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments is given in Note 22, and the currency exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 23.
The effect vi Credit risk ofexchange gains and losses included in the income statement are given in Note 7.
Exchange Credit risk arises from trade and other receivables, cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments and differences on translation of the net assets of entities with a functional currency other than the derivative financial instruments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily to trade receivables.
The credit USdollar the most material of which is Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. are taken to the currency risk on cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments and on derivative financial instruments translation reserve and are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on islimited as the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international page94.
All customers are subject to credit review procedures, including the use of external credit ratings Currency sensitivity where available.
Credit is provided only within set limits, which are regularly reviewed.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the US dollar Chilean peso Outstanding receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
exchange rate on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The carrying value of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum The impact on profit or loss is as a result of the retranslation of monetary financial instruments exposure to credit risk.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for any including cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments, trade receivables, trade payables and doubtful receivables.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which are effective designated cash flow hedges, and changes in the fair value of available-for-sale vii Liquidity risk equity investments.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as interest rates, remain The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and financing facilities, constant.
through the review of forecast and actual cash flows.
If the US dollar had strengthened by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the reporting date, net The Group typically holds surplus cash in demand or term deposits or highly liquid investments, earnings would have decreased by US$7.1 million 2010 US$2.1 million : there would have been which typically can be accessed or liquidated within 24 hours, and in all cases not more than five no additional impact on equity.
If the US dollar had weakened by 10% against the Chilean peso as days, while the majority of borrowings comprise corporate loans at Los Pelambres, repayable over at the reporting date, net earnings would have increased by US$8.6 million 2010 US$2.6 million periods of up to five years, corporate loans at El Tesoro repayable over approximately four years, increase : there would have been no additional impact on equity.
and corporate loans at Esperanza, repayable over approximately 12 years.
iii Interest rate risk At the end of both 2011 and 2010, the Group was in a net cash position, as disclosed in Note 34.
The Groups policy is generally to borrow and invest cash at floating rates.
Fluctuations in interest Details of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are given in Note 22, while details of rates may impact the Groups net finance income or cost, and to a lesser extent on the value borrowings including the maturity profile are given in Note 23.
Details of undrawn committed offinancial assets and liabilities.
The Group occasionally uses interest rate swaps and collars borrowing facilities are also given in Note 23. tomanage interest rate exposures on a portion of its existing borrowings.
Details of any interest The following table analyses the maturity of the Groups contractual commitments in respect of its ratederivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 25 e. financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the Interest rate exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 23. undiscounted cash flows on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
124 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 25 Financial instruments and financial risk management continued Between Less than 6 months Between After 2011 to 1 year 12 years 2 years Total 6 months At 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 162.1 176.1 370.9 1,324.9 2,034.0 Other loans including short-term loans 31.7 0.1 1.7 230.9 264.4 Finance leases 2.7 2.7 5.3 50.2 60.9 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Trade and other payables 502.2 0.9 6.6 3.5 513.2 Derivative financial instruments 7.2 9.7 8.3 9.7 34.9 706.0 189.6 393.0 1,619.2 2,907.8 Between Less than 6 months Between After 2010 6 months to 1 year 12 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 90.6 90.3 607.0 1,406.0 2,193.9 Other loans including short-term loans 0.2 0.2 3.5 228.2 232.1 Finance leases 2.3 2.3 9.0 50.2 63.8 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Trade and other payables 490.5 14.3 1.6 3.1 509.5 Derivative financial instruments 20.4 34.2 60.0 0.9 113.7 604.1 141.4 681.3 1,686.6 3,113.4 The preference shares pay an annual dividend of 100,000 US$160.334 in perpetuity, and accordingly it is not possible to determine total amounts payable for periods without a fixed end date.
viii Capital risk management The Groups objectives are to return capital to shareholders while leaving the Group with sufficient funds to progress its short, medium and long-term growth plans as well as preserving the financial flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they may arise.
TheGroup monitors capital on the basis of net cash defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquidinvestments less borrowings which was US$1,139.7 million at 31 December 2011 2010:US$1,345.1 million, as well as gross cash defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments which was US$3,280.0 million at 31 December 2011 2010: US$3,541.6 million.
The Groups total cash is held in a combination of demand and term deposits and managed funds investing in high quality, fixed income instruments.
Some of the managed funds have been instructed to invest in instruments with average maturities greater than 90 days.
These amounts are presented as liquid investments but are included in net cash for monitoring and decision making purposes.
The Group has a risk averse investment strategy.
The Groups borrowings are detailed in Note 23.
Additional project finance or shareholder loans are taken out by the operating subsidiaries to fund projects on a case-by-case basis.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 125 d Embedded derivatives provisionally priced sales Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time or month of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from one to five months after shipment tothecustomer.
Under IFRS, both gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade debtors in the balance sheet.
The Group determines mark-to-market prices using forward prices at each period end for copper concentrate and cathode sales, and period-end monthly average prices for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market for that commodity in the majority of the Groups contracts.
The mark-to-market adjustments to the balance sheet at the end of each period are as follows: Balance sheet net mark-to-market effect on debtors 2011 2010 US$m US$m Los Pelambres copper concentrate 18.0 124.3 Los Pelambres molybdenum concentrate 0.1 0.3 Esperanza copper concentrate 4.3 Esperanza gold in concentrate 1.6 El Tesoro copper cathodes 0.2 4.1 Michilla copper cathodes 0.2 1.4 15.8 130.1 For the year ended 31 December 2011 Los Los Los Esperanza El Tesoro Michilla Pelambres Esperanza Pelambres Pelambres Copper Copper Copper Copper Gold in Gold in Molybdenum concentrate concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate concentrate concentrate US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 3,620.7 721.5 836.6 379.8 64.2 248.6 337.4 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 124.3 4.1 1.4 0.3 Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the previous year 116.2 3.5 1.0 0.5 0.3 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 8.1 0.6 0.4 0.5 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the current year 194.9 51.0 8.5 8.6 0.4 5.1 25.9 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 18.0 4.3 0.2 0.2 1.6 0.1 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 212.9 46.7 8.7 8.8 0.4 3.5 26.0 Total pricing adjustments 221.0 46.7 9.3 9.2 0.1 3.5 26.0 Realised gains losses on commodity derivatives 0.5 15.6 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 3,399.7 674.8 827.8 355.0 64.1 252.1 311.4 Tolling charges 143.8 28.4 0.2 0.8 17.6 Revenue net of tolling charges 3,255.9 646.4 827.8 355.0 63.9 251.3 293.8 126 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 25 Financial instruments and financial risk management continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 Los Los Los Pelambres Esperanza El Tesoro Michilla Pelambres Esperanza Pelambres Copper Copper Copper Copper Gold in Gold in Molybdenum concentrate concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate concentrate concentrate US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 2,826.0 722.2 317.5 43.3 318.0 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 62.1 2.0 0.4 1.1 Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the previous year 55.7 2.6 0.4 0.1 8.1 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 6.4 0.6 0.1 9.2 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the current year 162.2 12.7 4.6 0.2 10.9 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 124.3 4.1 1.4 0.3 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 286.5 16.8 6.0 0.2 10.6 Total pricing adjustments 280.1 17.4 6.0 0.1 1.4 Realised gains losses on commodity derivatives 0.1 81.5 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 3,106.1 739.7 242.0 43.4 316.6 Tolling charges 134.0 0.2 13.1 Revenue net of tolling charges 2,972.1 739.7 242.0 43.2 303.5 i Copper concentrate The typical period for which sales of copper concentrate remain open until settlement occurs is a range of approximately three to five months from shipment date.
At 31 December 2011 sales totalling 201,600 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 344.7 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of347.9 cents per pound.
At 31 December 2010 sales totalling 101,900 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 436.7 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of381.3 cents per pound.
ii Copper cathodes The typical period for which sales of copper cathodes remain open until settlement occurs is approximately one month from shipment date.
At 31 December 2011, sales totalling 12,600 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 344.5 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of345.9 cents per pound.
At 31 December 2010, sales totalling 12,700 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 437.3 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of417.9 cents per pound.
iii Gold concentrates The typical period for which sales of gold in concentrate remain open is approximately one month from shipment date.
At 31 December 2011, sales totalling 15,300 ounces remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of US$1,536.0 per ounce compared with an average provisional invoice price ofUS$1,638.6 per ounce.
iv Molybdenum concentrate The typical period for which sales of molybdenum remain open is approximately two months from shipment date.
At 31 December 2011, sales totalling 1,100 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of US$13.4 per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price ofUS$13.4 per pound.
At 31 December 2010, sales totalling 1,300 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of US$16.1 per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price ofUS$16.0 per pound.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 127 e Derivative financial instruments The Group periodically uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows have been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in the income statement have been recorded within revenue.
The time value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from the designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in the income statement within other finance items.
Realised gains and losses and changes in the fair value of exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items for those derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied.
When hedge accounting has been applied the realised gains and losses on exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items and interest expense respectively.
i Mark-to-market adjustments and income statement impact The balance sheet mark-to-market adjustments in respect of derivatives at the end of each year, and the total effect on the income statement for each year, are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2011 Total balance sheet impact of mark-toImpact on income statement Impact on reserves market adjustments Gains resulting from Gains losses resulting mark-to-market from mark-to-market adjustments adjustments Realised on hedging Total net on hedging Net financial gains losses instruments gain loss instruments asset liability 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Commodity derivatives El Tesoro 0.5 0.5 1.8 0.5 Michilla 15.6 49.1 33.5 86.4 58.4 Exchange derivatives Michilla 7.8 7.8 Esperanza 1.1 1.1 1.8 Corporate and other items 2.0 2.0 Railway and other transport services 2.4 2.4 Interest derivatives Esperanza 22.4 22.4 8.4 27.0 40.8 49.1 8.3 87.0 24.1 At 31 December 2011, US$1.1 million of the net realised losses on exchange derivatives relates to a net gain on hedging instruments at Esperanza where hedge accounting has been applied and is recognised in foreign exchange within net finance expense see Note 6.
The remaining US$4.4 million net losses on exchange derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied have been recognised in foreign exchange derivatives within net finance expense see Note 6.
The gains losses recognised in reserves are disclosed before non-controlling interests and tax.
128 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 25 Financial instruments and financial risk management continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 Total balance sheet impact of Impact on income statement Impact on reserves mark-to-market adjustments Gains losses resulting Gains losses resulting from mark-to-market from mark-to-market Realised adjustments on Total net adjustments on Net financial gains losses hedging instruments gain loss hedging instruments asset liability 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Commodity derivatives El Tesoro 0.1 0.1 1.4 1.3 Michilla 81.5 16.1 97.6 17.1 76.9 Exchange derivatives Los Pelambres 0.2 0.2 Michilla 1.5 1.5 Esperanza 1.8 1.8 Corporate and other items 0.2 0.2 Railway and other transport services 4.7 1.6 6.3 Water concession 1.7 1.9 0.2 Interest derivatives Esperanza 29.8 35.5 86.5 15.6 102.1 12.3 111.9 At 31 December 2010, US$1.5 million of the net realised losses on exchange derivatives relates to a net gain on hedging instruments at Michilla where hedge accounting has been applied and is recognised in foreign exchange within net finance expense see Note 9.
The remaining US$6.1 million net losses on exchange derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied have been recognised in foreign exchange derivatives within net finance expense see Note 9.
The net financial asset liability resulting from the balance sheet mark-to-market adjustments are analysed as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Analysed between: Non-current assets 47.6 Current assets 11.4 1.8 Current liabilities 16.9 54.7 Non-current liabilities 18.0 59.0 24.1 111.9 Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 129 ii Outstanding derivative financial instruments Commodity derivatives The Group periodically uses commodity derivatives to reduce its exposure to fluctuation in the copper price.
a Min-max instruments At 31.12.11 For instruments held at 31.12.11 Weighted average remaining Copper period from production 1 January Weighted Weighted hedged 2012 Covering a average floor average cap tonnes Months period up to: US cents US cents Michilla 84,300 24.2 31-12-14 344.9 448.0 Between 1 January 2012 and 31 January 2012 nil tonnes of additional min-max instruments were entered into, and min-max instruments for 2,775 tonnes of copper production matured.
As a result up to 31 January 2012: i 33,300 tonnes of 2012 Group copper production had been hedged with min-max options of which 2,775 tonnes matured by 31 January 2012 and 30,525 tonnes remain outstanding and will mature by the end of the year.
ii 33,000 tonnes of 2013 Group copper production has been hedged with min-max options.
iii 18,000 tonnes of 2014 Group copper production has been hedged with min-max options.
b Futures arbitrage The Group also has futures for copper production, to buy and sell copper production with the effect of swapping COMEX prices for LME prices without eliminating underlying market price exposure.
At 31.12.11 For instruments held at 31.12.11 Weighted average remaining Copper period from Weighted production 1 January average hedged 2012 Covering a price tonnes Months period up to: US cents El Tesoro 11,000 7.6 31-01-13 361.0 Exchange derivatives The Group periodically uses foreign exchange derivatives to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in the exchange rates influencing operating costs and the fair value of non-US dollar denominated assets orliabilities.
Cross-currency swaps The Group has used cross-currency swaps to swap Chilean pesos for US dollars.
At 31.12.11 For instruments held at 31.12.11 Weighted Principal average value of remaining crossperiod from Weighted currency 1 January average rate swaps held 2012 Covering a US$m Months period up to: Ch$ US$ Michilla 166.2 9.9 16-09-13 508.2 Between 1 January 2012 and 31 January 2012 US$7.4 million of cross-currency swaps relating to Michilla matured.
Interest derivatives The Group periodically uses interest derivatives to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements.
Interest rate swaps The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest relating to the Esperanza financing for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had entered into the contracts outlinedbelow.
Maximum Weighted notional average amount Maturity fixed rate Start date date US$m % Esperanza 15-02-2011 15-02-2018 840.0 3.372 130 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 26 Long-term incentive plan The Group established a long-term incentive plan the Plan at the end of 2011 as part of the remuneration of senior executives in the Group.
Directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan.
ThePlanincludes Restricted Share Awards RSAs and Performance Share Awards PSAs.
Under the Plan, participants are granted potential awards based on a specified number of Antofagasta plc shares.
Upon vesting the participant receives a cash payment based on the number of shares awarded and the market price of Antofagasta plc shares on the date of vesting.
There is no exercise price payable by participants in respect of the awards.
RSA participants are required to remain in the employment of the Group for three years from the date the awards are granted in order for them to vest in full, with one third vesting after one year, one third vesting after two years and one third vesting after three years.
There are no performance criteria attached to the awards.
The fair value of RSAs under the Plan is recorded as compensation expense over the vesting periods, with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the liability at the end of each period until settled.
Fair value at the end of each period is determined using a Black Scholes valuation model.
PSA awards vest only if certain performance criteria are met.
The performance criteria are based on total shareholder return and a range of operational and financial performance measures.
The fair value of PSAs under the Plan is recorded as compensation expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding liability at the end of each period until settled.
The first awards were granted on 29 December 2011, with a total of 272,435 potential RSAs and 272,435 potential PSAs granted.
The amount of the fair value of the awards which accrued between thegrant date of 29 December 2011 and the year end date of 31 December 2011 is estimated to be less than US$0.1 million and therefore disclosure of the related valuation assumptions is not significant to the financial statements.
27 Post-employment benefit obligations a Defined contribution schemes The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
The amount charged to the income statement in 2011 was US$0.1 million 2010US$0.1 million, representing theamount paid in the year.
There were no outstanding amounts which remain payable at the end of either year.
b Severance provisions Employment terms at some of the Groups operations provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and the obligation recognised is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in the income statement within operating cost.
The most recent valuation was carried out in 2011 by Ernst & Young, a qualified actuary in Santiago-Chile who is not connected with the Group.
The main assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations were as follows: 2011 2010 Average nominal discount rate 5.3% 6.6% Average rate of increase in salaries 3.1% 2.8% Average staff turnover 4.6% 3.5% Amounts included in the income statement in respect of severance provisions are as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Current service cost charge to operating profit 9.8 11.1 Actuarial gains and losses charge to operating costs 5.5 5.0 Interest cost charge to interest expenses 3.9 1.6 Foreign exchange charge to other finance items 6.6 4.3 Total charge to income statement 1.6 22.0 Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 131 Movement in the present value of severance provisions were as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 68.0 48.2 Current service cost 9.8 11.1 Actuarial gains and losses 5.5 5.0 Charge capitalised 3.7 Interest cost 3.9 1.6 Paid in the year 8.4 5.9 Foreign currency exchange difference 6.6 4.3 Balance at the end of the year 61.2 68.0 28 Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during 2011 and 2010.
Accelerated Temporary capital differences on Withholding Short-term Mining tax allowances provisions tax differences Royalty Tax losses Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2010 360.0 21.8 134.9 3.6 8.9 6.9 478.7 Charge credit to income 44.2 19.5 113.5 18.1 12.8 46.0 123.1 Charge capitalised 11.5 11.5 Credit deferred in equity 4.0 4.0 At 1 January 2011 392.7 41.3 248.4 17.7 21.7 52.9 586.3 Charge credit to income 71.7 20.0 91.5 29.1 3.4 50.4 21.9 Reclassification 7.9 7.9 Charge deferred in equity 16.9 16.9 At 31 December 2011 456.5 61.3 156.9 5.5 26.2 2.5 581.3 The credit to the income statement of US$21.9 million 2010 US$123.1 million charge includes a credit for foreign exchange differences of US$2.8 million 2010 includes a charge of US$2.1 million.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balance after offset : 2011 2010 US$m US$m Deferred tax assets 83.2 110.0 Deferred tax liabilities 664.5 696.3 Net deferred tax balances 581.3 586.3 At 31 December 2011, the Group had unused tax losses of US$ 16.5 million 2010 US$311.1 million available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect oftheUS$14.9 million of these losses in 2011 2010 US$311.1 million.
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, there were no other deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets were recognised in the balance sheet.
At 31 December 2011, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was US$4,551.7million 2010 US$3,649.9 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences andit is likely that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignificant.
132 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 29 Long-term provisions 2011 2010 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 244.4 127.9 Charge to operating profit in the year 16.5 69.6 Release of discount to net interest in the year 7.4 2.7 Charge capitalised 1.4 Capitalised adjustment to provision 56.7 44.4 Utilised in year 2.6 1.7 Foreign currency exchange difference 1.3 0.1 Balance at the end of the year 321.1 244.4 Analysed as follows: Decommissioning and restoration 320.0 243.4 Termination of Water concession 1.1 1.0 Balance at the end of the year 321.1 244.4 a Decommissioning and restoration Decommissioning and restoration costs relate to the Groups mining operations.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular independent formal review.
Itisestimated that the provision will be utilised over a period of up to 25 years based on current mine plans.
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the charge to operating profit includes US$ 11.1 million 2010 US$65.2 million in relation to increases to the restoration provision and amounts capitalised inproperty, plant and equipment include US$55.9 million 2010 US$44.4 million in relation to increases in the decommissioning provision at Los Pelambres following an updated independent review which reflects changes to the timing, cost and other assumptions relating to the provision.
The capitalised provision balances are depreciated over the life of the corresponding asset or mine life if shorter.
b Termination of Water concession The provision for the termination of the Water concession relates to the provision for items of plant, property and equipment and working capital items under Aguas fide Antofagastas ownership to betransferred to the previous state-owned operator ECONSSA formerly known as ESSAN at the end of the concession period, and is based on the net present value of the estimated value of those assets and liabilities in existence at the end of the concession.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 133 30 Share capital and other reserves i Share capital The ordinary share capital of the Company is as follows: 2011 2010 2011 2010 Number Number US$m US$m Authorised Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,300,000,000 1,300,000,000 118.9 118.9 2011 2010 2011 2010 Number Number US$m US$m Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 5p each 985,856,695 985,856,695 89.8 89.8 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting.
There were no changes in the authorised or issued share capital of the Company in either 2010 or 2011.
Details of the Companys preference share capital, which is included within borrowings inaccordance with IAS 32, are given in Note 23a xi.
ii Other reserves Details of the share premium account, hedging, fair value and translation reserves and retained earnings for both 2010 and 2011 are included within the Consolidated statement of changes in equity onpage 94.
31 Non-controlling interests The non-controlling interests of the Group are as follows: Share of profit for the Capital Share of Hedging At 01.01.11 financial year increase dividends reserves At 31.12.11 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Los Pelambres 889.9 724.0 660.8 953.1 El Tesoro 282.5 90.7 75.0 0.6 298.8 Michilla 0.7 38.2 5.2 16.7 50.4 Esperanza 157.6 61.0 1.4 220.0 Twin Metals 9.2 22.0 84.9 72.1 Railway and other transport services 15.3 1.5 16.8 Total 1,355.2 893.4 84.9 741.0 18.7 1,611.2 32 Business combinations Twin Metals Minnesota LLC acquisition in 2010 In 2010 the Group concluded an agreement with Duluth Metals Limited Duluth, a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange TSX, to acquire a 40% controlling interest in the project company Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Twin Metals which holds the Nokomis  group metal PGM deposit Nokomis, located in the highly prospective Duluth Complex in north-eastern Minnesota, USA.
The agreement included no transfer of consideration from Antofagasta to Duluth for the participation in Twin Metals LLC.
No goodwill was generated in this transaction.
In order to maintain its interest, Antofagasta agreed to fund US$130 million of exploration and feasibility study expenditure over a three-year period and has the option to acquire at fair value an additional 25% of the project company toown in aggregate 65% upon completion of a bankable feasibility study.
Up to 31 December 2011 the Group has advanced US$90 million to Twin Metals to fund exploration and feasibility studyexpenditure.
Although the Group only has a 40% shareholding in Twin Metals, the nature of the agreement is such that the Group has management control over the entity.
134 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 33 Other transactions a Exploration agreements The Group has entered into new exploration agreements during 2011 with: Eurasian Minerals Inc. relating to the Normyran exploration project in Sweden Stratex International plc relating to explorations in Turkey Avrupa Minerals Ltd. relating to exploration opportunities in Portugal Riverside Resources relating to exploration opportunities in Canada Codelco in relation to exploration in Chile Monax Mining Limited relating to exploration opportunities in South Australia Eiseb Exploration & Mining Limited and Manica Minerals Limited, both relating to exploration opportunities in Namibia Sipa Resources Limited relating to exploration opportunities in Western Australia.
Additionally, after evaluation of the results of the exploration activities to date, the Group decided in May 2011 not to proceed further with the agreement with Sunridge Gold Corp relating to exploration inEritrea.
b Antucoya project On 14 December 2011, the Group Board of Directors approved the development of Antucoya copper project, with an estimated capital cost of US$1.3 billion.
The Group also signed a Memorandum ofUnderstanding with Marubeni Corporation pursuant to which Marubeni will become a 30% partner in the project for a consideration totalling US$350 million.
Antofagasta and Marubeni expect to enter into definitive agreements during the first quarter of 2012 and to close the transaction during the second half of 2012.
Antucoya is a copper oxide deposit that is expected to produce an average of 80,000 tonnes of copper cathodes per annum through a standard heap-leach process, and is expected to have a mine life of approximately 20 years, with proved and probable Ore Reserves of642million tonnes of 0.35% copper.
c Franconia Minerals Corporation In August 2011 the Groups subsidiary Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Twin Metals acquired the assets formerly held by Franconia Minerals Corporation Franconia.
The Group holds a 40% controlling stake in Twin Metals, with Duluth Metals Limited Duluth holding a 60% non-controlling interest.
Franconias principal asset was a 70% interest in the Birch Lake Joint Venture BLJV which holds the Birch Lake, Maturi and Spruce Road  and palladium deposits that are contiguous to Twin Metals existing deposits.
Franconia announced in November 2010 its intention to increase its ownership interest to 82% under the terms of the BLJV agreement.
This asset was held by Franconias subsidiary Franconia Minerals Corporation US, which has subsequently been converted into Franconia US LLC Franconia US.
In December 2010 the Group entered into arrangements with Duluth in connection with Duluths proposed acquisition of 100% of Franconia.
Duluth and Antofagasta agreed that following the acquisition, Twin Metals would acquire 100% of the membership units of Franconia US from Duluth.
In March 2011 Duluth completed its acquisition of Franconia at a cost of Can$74.8 million US$76.6 million, in a combination of cash, Duluth shares and other obligations.
Antofagasta funded Can$30.0million US$30.8 million of the cash consideration through a loan to Duluth, reflecting its 40% interest in Twin Metals.
The principal asset of Franconia, being the interest in the mining propertiesheld via the BLJV, was valued at Can$74.1 million US$75.9 million at the date of acquisition by Duluth, along with other sundry net assets with a value of Can$0.7 million US$0.8 million at that date.
Subsequent to Duluths acquisition of Franconia, 40% of the membership units of Franconia US were transferred by Duluth to an Antofagasta group company.
Duluth also paid Can$1.0 million US$1.0million in cash to the Antofagasta group company, reflecting 40% of the cash distributed by Franconia to Duluth subsequent to Duluths acquisition of Franconia in March 2011.
Accordingly, the Groups net cash outflow as a result of the Franconia transaction has been Can$29.0 million US$29.8 million.
In August 2011 Twin Metals acquired the Franconia assets, via the acquisition of 100% of the membership units of Franconia US, in consideration for the issuing of additional Twin Metals membership unitsto Duluth and to the Antofagasta group company holding the Franconia US membership units.
The assets acquired by Twin Metals via this transaction were the interest in the mining properties heldvia theBLJV valued at US$75.9 million along with other sundry net liabilities with a value of US$3.2 million, resulting in a total net value of assets acquired, and Twin Metals membership units issued, ofUS$72.7million.
The interest in the mining deposits has been reflected as an addition to mining property assets within property, plant and equipment.
As noted above, Franconia announced in November 2010 its intention to increase its ownership interest in the BLJV from 70% to 82%, in accordance with the terms of the BLJV agreement.
UndertheBLJV agreement Franconia is entitled to increase its interest from 70% to 82% in return for funding 100% of the exploration, evaluation and development expenditures in respect of the miningproperties held via the BLJV up to the commencement of commercial production.
Franconia is entitled to recover amounts paid plus interest in respect of the 30% carried interest in the BLJV following the commencement of commercial production, from 60% of the cash flow attributable to the 30% carried interest.
At 31 December 2011 the Group estimates the amount of the carried interestasUS$7.6million.
No amounts have currently been recognised in the financial statements in respect of amounts which could potentially be recovered in respect of this carried interest following thecommencement ofcommercial production from these properties.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 135 34 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement a Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash inflow from operating activities 2011 2010 US$m US$m Profit before tax 3,076.2 2,573.2 Depreciation and amortisation 431.7 277.0 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 14.9 9.8 Provision against carrying value of assets 140.5 Asset impairments reversal 109.4 Net finance expense 21.2 18.7 Share of profit of associate 24.0 2.6 Increase in inventories 131.8 108.8 Increase in debtors 1.4 336.7 Increase in creditors and provisions 25.2 107.5 Cash flows from operations 3,552.5 2,433.9 b Analysis of changes in net cash At 1.1.
10 Cash flows Other Exchange At 31.12.10 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 2,590.5 127.0 17.2 2,734.7 Liquid investments 631.8 175.1 806.9 Total cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 3,222.3 302.1 17.2 3,541.6 Bank borrowings due within one year 426.5 446.5 154.8 134.8 Bank borrowings due after one year 1,145.7 1,021.5 153.1 0.1 2,014.2 Finance leases due within one year 5.3 12.8 10.1 0.2 2.8 Finance leases due after one year 45.9 7.9 3.6 41.6 Preference shares 3.2 0.1 3.1 Total borrowings 1,626.6 562.2 3.9 3.8 2,196.5 c Net cash 2011 2010 US$m US$m Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 3,280.0 3,541.6 Total borrowings 2,140.3 2,196.5 Net cash 1,139.7 1,345.1 136 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements 35 Operating lease arrangements 37 Exchange rates in US dollars The principal exchange rates expressed in US dollars used in the preparation of the 2011 financial 2011 2010 statements are as follows: US$m US$m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised 2011 2010 inincome for the year 18.0 12.4 US$1.5509 1: US$1.5406 1: Year end rates US$1 Ch$519 US$1 Ch$468 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: US$1.6033 1: US$1.5442 1: Average rates US$1 Ch$483 US$1 Ch$510 2011 2010 US$m US$m 38 Related party transactions Within one year 13.9 10.2 Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been In the second to fifth years inclusive 24.7 30.9 eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group After five years 5.4 10.5 andits associate are disclosed below.
44.0 51.6 The transactions which Group companies entered into with related parties who are not members ofthe Group are set out below.
Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of plant and equipment by operating subsidiaries of the Group.
a Quienco S. A. Quienco S. A. Quienco is a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate, the shares of 36 Concession arrangements whichare traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
The Group and Quienco are both under In 2003, the Group was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities thecontrol of the Luksic family, and three Directors of the Company, Jean-Paul Luksic, inthe Antofagasta Region of Chile previously controlled by the state-owned operator ECONSSA GuillermoLuksic and Gonzalo Menndez, are also directors of Quienco.
The concession consists of two businesses, one an unregulated The following material transactions took place between the Group and the Quienco group business supplying mines and other industrial users and the other a regulated water business ofcompanies, all of which were on normal commercial terms: supplying domestic customers.
The concession contract was signed and control of the assets andoperation assumed on 29 December 2003 by Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned the Group sold copper cathodes during the year for US$0.7 million 2010 US$5.0 million subsidiary of the Group.
toMadeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
The balance due from Madeco at the end of the year was less than US$0.1 million 2010 was nil : Under the concession contract, certain assets and liabilities mainly certain specific tangible fixed assets and working capital items were transferred to Aguas fide Antofagasta by way of sale.
Other the Group bought copper wire from Madeco for less than US$0.1 million 2010 less than assets mainly water rights and infrastructure were transferred by way of concession and will US$0.1 million : devolve to ECONSSA at the end of the 30-year period.
the Group earned interest income of US$0.5 million 2010 US$0.5 million during the year ondeposits with Banco fide Chile S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
Deposit balances at the end Aguas fide Antofagasta will also be required to transfer to ECONSSA any tangible fixed assets and ofthe year were US$23.7 million 2010 US$1.9 million : working capital items under its ownership at the end of the 30-year concession period.
A provision for the termination of the Water concession has been created for the fixed assets and working the Group bought fuel from ENEX S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco of US$39.3 million.
capital items under Aguas fide Antofagastas ownership to be transferred to ECONSSA at the end Thebalancedue from Enex S. A. at the end of the year was US$ 3.6 million.
It was not ofthe concession period.
The provision is based on the net present value of the estimated value arelatedparty during2010: ofthese assets and liabilities in existence at the end of the concession.
The release of the discount the Group has contract shipping services from Compaia Sudamericana fide Vapores S. A. applied in establishing the net present value of future costs is charged to the income statement subsidiary of Quienco, of US$9.8 million.
It was not a related party during 2010. ineach accounting period and is disclosed as a financing cost.
Further details of this provision aregiven in Note 29 b. b Compaa fide Inversiones Adritico S. A.
The Chilean Water Regulator Superintendencia fide Servicios Sanitarios sets domestic tariffs In 2011, the Group leased office space on normal commercial terms from Compaa fide everyfive years following a regulatory review including representations from the operator of the Inversiones Adritico S. A. a company controlled by the Luksic family, at a cost of US$0.7 million concession.
The last regulatory review was completed during 2006, which resulted in an average 2010 US$0.6 million.
reduction in tariffs compared with previous levels of approximately 5% from July 2006. c Compaa Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A.
As explained in Note 17, the Group acquired a 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. ATI on 16 December 2004, which has been treated in these financial statements as an associate.
During 2011, the Group received a dividend of US$1.2 million from ATI 2010US$0.8million.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 137 d Antomin Limited, Antomin 2 Limited and Antomin i Inversiones Hornitos S. A.
The Group has acquired a 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. from GDF SUEZ, which Investors Limited isaccounted for as an associate.
During the year ended 31 December 2010 there was a The Group holds a 51% interest in Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited US$57.2million capital reduction in Inversiones Hornitos.
The balance due from Inversiones Antomin Investors, which own a number of copper exploration properties.
The Group originally Hornitos to the Group at 31 December 2011 was US$83.8 million year ended 31 December acquired its 51% interest in these properties for a nominal consideration from Mineralinvest 2010 US$101.1 million.
The Group paid US$70.6 million year ended 31 December Establishment, a company controlled by the Luksic family, which continues to hold the remaining 2010nil to Inversiones Hornitos in relation to the energy supply contract at Esperanza.
49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors.
Antofagasta has the exclusive right to acquire at fair value under certain conditions the shareholding of Mineralinvest in Antomin 2 and Antomin j Sunridge Gold Corp Investors, or the underlying properties, for a period of five years from August 2008.
The Group In October 2009 the Group acquired 17.8% of the issued share capital of Sunridge under a hasalso committed to meet in full any exploration costs relating to the properties held by these privateplacement.
On 23 December 2010 the Group sold its 17.8% shareholding in Sunridge entities.
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group incurred US$1.1 million year ended forUS$17.5 million.
Prior to this sale the interest was accounted for as an associate.
31December 2010 US$0.1 million of exploration work at these properties.
k Franconia Minerals Corporation e Tethyan Copper Company Limited On 20 December 2010 the Group entered into arrangements with Duluth Metals Limited As explained in Note 18 a, during 2006 the Group entered into a joint venture agreement with inconnection with Duluths proposed acquisition of 100% of Franconia Minerals Corporation Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick Gold to establish a 50:50 joint venture over Tethyan Copper Franconia.
Duluth and Antofagasta have agreed that following the proposed acquisition Company Limiteds Tethyan mineral interests in Pakistan.
Franconias assets will be transferred to Twin Metals and that Antofagasta will contribute During the year the Group contributed US$9.7 million 2010 US$12.1 million to Tethyan, to approximately C$30.0 million in cash to Duluths acquisition of Franconia in order to, in part, provide funds for Tethyans ongoing exploration and evaluation programme.
The balance due from maintain the 40% and 60% interests of Antofagasta and Duluth, respectively, in Twin Metals.
Tethyan to Group companies at the end of the year was US$0.1 million 2010 US$0.3 million.
TheGroup has also subscribed for an aggregate of 7,604,563 subscription receipts of Duluth, Details of amounts relating to Tethyan included in the consolidated financial statements of the byway of private placement, for a price of C$2.63 per subscription to become an approximately Group under the proportionate consolidation method are set out in Note 18 a.
Further details of the acquisition are given in Note 39.
Duluth is arelated party of the Group for the purpose of the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing f Energa Andina S. A.
Authority asitholds a substantial interest in Twin Metals.
In October 2008 Energa Andina S. A. was formed as a vehicle for the exploration and exploitation of potential sources of geothermal energy.
Initially, the company was 60% owned by the Group l Sale of interest in Antucoya to Marubeni Corporation and 40% owned by Empresa Nacional del Petrleo ENAP of Chile.
On 6 May 2011 ENAP sold On 14 December 2011, the Group signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Marubeni its 40% shareholding in Energa Andina to Origin Energy Geothermal Chile Limitada for US$12.0 Corporation Marubeni pursuant to which Marubeni will become a 30% partner in the Antucoya million.
The balance due from Energa Andina S. A. to the Group at 31 December 2011 was less project for consideration totalling US$350 million and a commitment to fund its pro rata share than US$0.1 million 31 December 2010 US$0.3 million.
During the year ended 31 December ofthe development costs of the project.
2011 the Group contributed US$9.0 million to Energa Andina year ended December2010nil.
Marubeni holds a 30% interest in Minera Esperanza and Minera El Tesoro.
Marubeni is a related party of the Group for the purposes of the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority g Minera Cerro Centinela S. A. asit holds a significant interest in these two subsidiaries of the Group.
Further details of this Minera Cerro Centinela S. A. Centinela, an entity ultimately controlled by the Luksic family, transaction are set out in Note 33. hasan interest of 7.973% in Minera Michilla S. A. Michilla, a shareholding it has held since Michilla was created through the merger of two predecessor companies on 31 December 1993. m El Arrayan During the year ended 31 December 2011 Michilla paid dividends of US$1.6 million year ended In December 2011, the Group exercised an option to acquire a 30% interest in Parque Elico 31 December 2010 US$ 3.0 million to Centinela.
ElArrayn S. A. El Arrayan for a consideration of US$4.5 million, and will be responsible for its share of development costs.
This interest is accounted for as an associate.
El Arrayan will develop h Directors and other key management personnel and operate a 115MW wind power plant which is expected to begin construction in early 2012 Information relating to Directors remuneration and interests are given in the Remuneration Report andachieve commercial operation in the second half of 2013. on pages 82 to 85.
Information relating to the remuneration of key management personnel including the Directors is given in Note 8.
138 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements On 3 February 2011, the Supreme Court issued an interim order providing, among other things, 39 Litigation that the Government of Balochistan could not take any decision in respect of the grant or other disposition of a mining lease to Tethyan until matters before the Supreme Court were decided.
Tethyan Copper Company Limited On25 May 2011, the Supreme Court recalled this interim order and instructed the Government Mining lease application, administrative appeal and international arbitration ofBalochistan to proceed to expeditiously decide on Tethyans application for the mining lease The Group holds a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Limited Tethyan Australia, transparently and fairly in accordance with the law and the rules.
The Supreme Court also itsjoint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick.
Tethyan Australia is seeking, with and decidedthat the petitions should remain pending until the decision on the application by the through its wholly-owned subsidiary Tethyan Copper Company Pakistan Private Limited competent authority.
TethyanPakistan and, together with Tethyan Australia, Tethyan to develop the Reko Diq Following the Government of Balochistans rejection of Tethyans mining lease application, the copper-gold deposit in the Chagai Hills district of the province of Balochistan in south-west Supreme Court received a number of applications requesting it to re-instigate hearings in respect Pakistan.
Tethyan has held a 75% interest in an exploration licence encompassing the Reko Diq ofthese matters.
To date, the Supreme Court has held a number of hearings regarding the deposit, with the Government of Balochistan the provincial authority holding the remaining 25% pendingcases.
interest, resulting inan effective interest for the Antofagasta group of 37.5%.
The relationship between Tethyan and the Government of Balochistan in respect of their interests in the project Tethyan strongly believes that it has complied with the requirements of the Balochistan Mineral isgoverned by the Chagai Hills Exploration Joint Venture Agreement CHEJVA.
Rules and the CHEJVA and is entitled to the grant of the mining lease.
However, given the uncertainty caused by the Government of Balochistans rejection of Tethyans mining lease Tethyan completed the feasibility study in respect of the project and submitted this to the application, the Group has recognised a provision against the US$140.5 million carrying value Government of Balochistan in August 2010.
On 15 February 2011, Tethyan submitted an ofintangible assets and property, plant and equipment relating to the project.
application to the Government of Balochistan in accordance with the Balochistan Mineral Rules fora mining lease.
Tethyans exploration licence had been due to expire on 19 February 2011, but the submission of the mining lease application suspended the expiry of the exploration licence as 40 Contingent liabilities tothe mining area covered in the application.
On 15 November 2011, Tethyan was notified by the Antofagasta plc or its subsidiaries is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course Government of Balochistan that the Government had rejected the application.
No provision has been made in the financial statements and none of these claims Tethyan initiated an administrative appeal with the Government of Balochistan in respect of the arecurrently expected to result in any material loss to the Group.
Details of the principal claim mining lease application process.
On 3 March 2012 Tethyan was notified that this administrative inexistence either during or at the end of the year and the current status is set out below: appeal had been rejected.
Tethyan has also commenced two international arbitrations in order toprotect its legal rights.
Los Pelambres Mauro tailings dam As previously announced, during 2008 Los Pelambres entered into binding settlements in respect Supreme Court hearings of litigation relating to the Mauro tailings dam.
In December 2008, Los Pelambres became aware On 26 June 2007 the High Court of Balochistan at Quetta dismissed a petition which had sought of further legal proceedings which had been initiated in first instance courts in Santiago and to declare that the Chagai Hills Exploration Joint Venture of 1993 and the exploration licences LosVilos by certain members of the Caimanes community located near the Mauro valley.
granted to Tethyan were null and void.
It also overturned an injunction passed earlier by the Court.
Theseclaims, some of which have already been rejected by the relevant courts, sought to prevent The High Court petition had been filed in November 2006 and was directed at the Government the operation of the Mauro tailings dam.
Los Pelambres is continuing to take necessary steps ofPakistan and the Government of Balochistan, although it also named Tethyan Pakistan toprotect its position.
The petitioners filed a Civil Petition for Leave to Appeal CPLA against the High Court judgment.
41 Ultimate Parent Company The CPLA was allowed by the Supreme Court, converting it into an Appeal.
The Supreme Court The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is controlled by E. Abaroa also agreed to hear new constitutional petitions which were filed in late 2010 and early 2011.
Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
These new petitions relate primarily to whether it is in the public interest for Tethyan to receive amining lease.
Both Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation are domiciled in Liechtenstein.
Information relating to the interest of Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation aregiven in the Directors report on page 86.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 139 Parent Company financial statements 42 Antofagasta plc Balance sheet of the Parent Company and related notes Parent Company balance sheet At 31 December 2011 2011 2010 Notes US$m US$m Fixed assets Investment in subsidiaries 42D 666.5 666.3 Current assets Debtors amounts falling due within one year Other debtors 0.5 Amounts owed by subsidiaries 42D 661.7 1,203.9 Current asset investments term deposits 1.1 7.1 Cash at bank and in hand 1.1 1.0 663.9 1,212.5 Creditors amounts falling due within one year Other creditors 1.9 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 299.5 299.5 299.5 301.4 Net current assets 364.4 911.1 Total assets less current liabilities 1,030.9 1,577.4 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year Preference shares 42E 3.1 3.1 Total assets less total liabilities 1,027.8 1,574.3 Capital and reserves Called up shares capital Ordinary shares equity 42F 89.8 89.8 Reserves Share premium account 42F 199.2 199.2 Profit and loss account 42F 738.8 1,285.3 Shareholders funds including non-equity interests 1,027.8 1,574.3 Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 12 March 2012.
Jean-Paul Luksic William Hayes Chairman Director 140 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements: Parent Company financial statements d Investments in subsidiaries 42A Basis of preparation of the balance sheet Investments in subsidiaries represent equity holdings in subsidiaries and long-term amounts owed andrelated notes of the Parent Company by subsidiaries.
Such investments are valued at cost less any impairment provisions.
Investments The Antofagasta plc Parent Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying inaccordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable andinaccordance with UK company law.
The financial information has been prepared on a amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future cash flows of the historical cost basis.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher.
Thefunctional currency of the Company and the presentational currency adopted is US dollars.
As explained in Note 42D, amounts owed by subsidiaries due in foreign currencies are translated A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
There were no changes in atyear-end rates of exchange with any exchange differences taken to the profit and loss account.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with UK GAAP requires the use of estimates e Current asset investments and cash at bank and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial andinhand statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
Although these Current asset investments comprise highly-liquid investments that are readily convertible into known estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, following amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, typically maturing implementation of these standards, actual results may differ from those estimates.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Parent Cash at bank and in hand comprise cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand.
Company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The profit after tax for the year of the Parent Company amounted to US$636.5 million 2010 US$676.8 million.
f Borrowings preference shares The sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the Company carry a fixed rate of return 42B Principal accounting policies without the right to participate in any surplus.
They are accordingly classified as borrowings and oftheParentCompany translated into US dollars at period-end rates of exchange.
Preference share dividends are included within finance costs.
a Currency translation The Companys functional currency is the US dollar.
Transactions denominated in other currencies, g Equity instruments ordinary share capital including the issue of shares, are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the andshare premium transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities, including amounts due from or to subsidiaries, are Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
Exchange differences Equityinstruments of the Company comprise its sterling-denominated issued ordinary share arecharged or credited to the profit and loss account in the year in which they arise.
As explained above, the presentational and the functional currency of the Company is US dollars, b Revenue recognition and ordinary share capital and share premium are translated into US dollars at historical rates of Interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
Dividends proposed by subsidiaries are recognised exchange based on dates of issue.
as income by the Company when they represent a present obligation of the subsidiaries, i. e. in the period in which they are formally approved for payment.
h Cash flow statement c Dividends payable The Companys individual financial statements are outside the scope of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements because the Company prepares publicly available consolidated financial statements Dividends proposed are recognised when they represent a present obligation, i. e. in the period which include a consolidated cash flow statement.
Accordingly, the Company does not present inwhich they are formally approved for payment.
Accordingly, an interim dividend is recognised anindividual company cash flow statement.
when paid and a final dividend is recognised when approved by shareholders.
i Related party disclosures The Companys individual financial statements are exempt from the requirements of FRS 8 RelatedParty Disclosures because its individual financial statements are presented together withits consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the individual financial statements do notinclude related party disclosures.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 141 b Amounts owed by subsidiaries due within one year 42C Employee benefit expense At 31 December 2011, amounts owed by subsidiaries due within one year were US$661.7 million.
a Average number of employees 2010 US$1,203.9 million.
With effect from 1 January 2011 all employees of Antofagasta plc transferred to another Group company, and accordingly the Company had nil employees during 2011 2010 average 8.
42E Borrowings Preference shares The authorised, issued and fully paid preference share capital of the Company comprised b Aggregate remuneration 2,000,000 5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each at both 31 December 2011 and Given that all employees of Antofagasta plc transferred to another Group company with effect from 31December 2010.
As explained in Note 42B f, the preference shares are measured in 1 January 2011, the aggregate remuneration of the Companys employees was nil during 2011. thebalance sheet in US dollars at period-end rates of exchange.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed 5% cumulative dividend, 2011 2010 US$m US$m payable in equal instalments in June and December of each year.
On a winding-up, the preference shares are entitled to repayment and any arrears of dividend in priority to ordinary shareholders, Wages and salaries 1.6 butare not entitled to participate further in any surplus.
Each preference share carries 100 votes Social security costs 0.2 see Note 23a xi at any general meeting.
Post-employment benefits severance charge in the year 0.1 1.9 42F Reconciliation of movement The above employee figures exclude Directors who receive Directors fees from Antofagasta plc.
inshareholdersfunds Details of fees payable to Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Called up Share Profit ordinary premium and loss 42D Subsidiaries share capital account account Total US$m US$m US$m US$m a Investment in subsidiaries At 1 January 2010 equity 89.8 199.2 845.1 1,134.1 2011 2010 Profit for the financial year 676.8 676.8 US$m US$m Dividends paid 236.6 236.6 Shares in subsidiaries at cost 57.6 57.6 At 31 December 2010 and Amounts owed by subsidiaries due after more than one year 608.9 608.7 1January 2011 89.8 199.2 1,285.3 1,574.3 666.5 666.3 Profit for the financial year 636.5 636.5 Dividends paid 1,183.0 1,183.0 31 December 2011 equity 89.8 199.2 738.8 1,027.8 Shares Loans Total US$m US$m US$m The ordinary shares rank after the preference shares in entitlement to dividend and on awinding- 1 January 2011 57.6 608.7 666.3 up.
Loans made 0.2 0.2 31 December 2011 57.6 608.9 666.5 142 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 143 Other information Five year summary page 144 Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates page 146 Mining production and sales, transport and water statistics page 153 Glossary and definitions page 156 Shareholder information page 160 Directors and advisors page 161 Production Given the long-life, capital intensive nature of our mining operations, operating in a manner which is safe and sustainable over the long term is key to delivering value.
