Independent auditors report on the Company financial statements We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Mothercare plc for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 which In our opinion: comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related notes the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 2006: and Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the directors report for the financial year This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the parent company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Matters on which we are required to report by exception them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members in our opinion: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent we have formed.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent the directors remuneration report to be audited are not company financial statements and for being satisfied that they in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law accordance with applicable law and International Standards on are not made: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply we have not received all the information and explanations we with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the group financial statements disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable of Mothercare plc for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011. assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Nicola Mitchell, FCA significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the Senior statutory auditor overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial London statements.
If we become aware of any apparent misstatements 17 May 2011 or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 26 March 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
86 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011
