Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information Amendments to IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items Mothercare plc is a company incorporated in Great Britain under Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Funding Requirement given in the shareholder information on page 92.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5 IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers and in the business review on pages 6 to 14.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners These financial statements are presented in UK pounds sterling IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Amendments to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of presentation New Standards in issue but not yet effective The groups accounting period covers the 52 weeks ended At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the 26 March 2011.
The comparative period covered the 52 weeks following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been ended 27 March 2010. applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: Basis of accounting The groups financial statements have been prepared in Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Assets adopted for use in the European Union, International Financial Amendments to IFRS 1 Severe Hyperinflation and Removal Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and with those parts of of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
They therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets New standards affecting presentation and disclosure Improvements to IFRSs 2010 Improvements to IFRSs 2010 There are no new standards in the year affecting the presentation Amendment to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative and disclosure of the financial statements.
IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters New standards affecting the reported results and financial position There are no new standards in the year affecting the reported IFRS 9 Financial Instruments results and financial position.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures New standards not affecting the reported results nor the Amendment to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues financial position The following new and revised standards and interpretations have Amendments to IFRIC 14 Nov. 2009 Prepayments of a Minimum been adopted in these financial statements.
Their adoption has Funding Requirement not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments financial statements, but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements: The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on Amendments to IFRS 1 Additional Exemptions for the groups financial statements when the relevant Standards come First-time Adopters into effect.
Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions 48 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments, and on the initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the going concern basis, as described in the going concern statement business combination over the groups interest in the net fair in the corporate governance report on page 30.
The principal value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities accounting policies are set out below.
If, after reassessment, the groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Basis of consolidation liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial is recognised immediately in the income statement.
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 26 March 2011.
Control is achieved Goodwill where the Company has the power to govern the financial and Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the from its activities.
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the financial year are included in the consolidated income statement Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment of disposal, as appropriate.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the group.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which eliminated on consolidation.
goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be Business combinations impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the group on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in and loss as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities a subsequent period.
and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 Business combinations are recognised at On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale of the profit or loss on disposal.
in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell and deferred tax assets or liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 49 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The adjustments made to reported results are as follows: Revenue recognition Exceptional items Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received Due to their significance or one-off nature, certain items have or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and been classified as exceptional.
The gains and losses on these services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, discrete items, such as profits losses on the disposal termination VAT and other sales related taxes.
of property interests related to property restructures, integration Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title and restructuring costs and other non-operating items can have has passed.
Sales to international franchise partners are recognised a material impact on the absolute amount of and trend in the profit when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred from operations and the result for the year.
Therefore any gains and which is on dispatch.
losses on such items are analysed as non-underlying on the face of the income statement.
Further details of the exceptional items are Royalty revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance provided in note 6. with the substance of the relevant agreement provided that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the group and Non-cash foreign currency adjustments the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Royalty The group has taken the decision not to adopt hedge accounting arrangements that are based on sales and other measures under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
are recognised by reference to the underlying arrangement.
The effect of not applying hedge accounting under IAS 39 means that the reported results reflect the actual rate of exchange ruling Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the on the date of a transaction regardless of the cash flow paid by principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, the group at the predetermined rate of exchange.
In addition, any which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash gain or loss accruing on open contracts at a reporting period end receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that is recognised in the result for the period regardless of the actual assets net carrying amount.
outcome of the contract on close-out.
Whilst the impacts described above could be highly volatile depending on movements in Profit from retail operations exchange rates, this volatility will not be reflected in the cash flows Profit from retail operations represents the profit generated from of the group, which will be based on the hedged rate.
In addition, normal retail trading, prior to any gains or losses on property foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are revalued to transactions.
It also includes the volatility arising from accounting for the closing balance sheet rate under IAS 21 The Effects of Changes derivative financial instruments under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The adjustment made by the group Recognition and Measurement, as the group has not adopted therefore is to report its underlying performance consistently with hedge accounting.
the cash flows, reflecting the hedging which is in place.
Underlying earnings Amortisation of intangible assets The group believes that underlying profit before tax and underlying The balance sheet includes identifiable intangible assets which earnings provides additional useful information for shareholders.
arose on the acquisition of the Early Learning Centre and Blooming The term underlying earnings is not a defined term under IFRS Marvellous.
The average estimated useful life of the assets is and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit as follows: measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for IFRS measures of profit.
Trade name 10 to 20 years As the group has chosen to present an alternative earnings Customer relationships 5 to 10 years per share measure, a reconciliation of this alternative measure The amortisation of these intangible assets does not reflect the to the statutory measure required by IFRS is given in note 11. underlying performance of the business.
To meet the needs of shareholders and other external users of the Unwinding of discount on exceptional provisions financial statements the presentation of the income statement has Where property provisions are charged to exceptional items, been formatted to show more clearly, through the use of columns, the associated unwinding of the discount on these provisions our underlying business performance which provides more useful is classified as non-underlying.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method whereby the interest in the joint venture or associate is initially recorded at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post acquisition change in the groups share of net assets.
The profit or loss of the group includes the groups share of the profit or loss of the joint ventures and associates.
50 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Leasing period except for differences arising on the retranslation of Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The group as lessor Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred the group enters into forward contracts see below for details in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to of the groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a financial instruments.
straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, The group as lessee the assets and liabilities of the groups foreign operations are Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
the group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the classified within other comprehensive income, accumulated in lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the equity and transferred to the groups translation reserve.
Such remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised.
Retirement benefit costs Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
charged as an expense as they fall due.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial lease term.
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they Foreign currencies occur.
They are recognised outside of the income statement and The individual financial statements of each group company are presented in other comprehensive income.
presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on of each group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation become vested.
currency for the consolidated financial statements.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
In consultation with the independent actuaries to the schemes, the Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that valuation of the retirement benefit obligations has been updated to are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the reflect current market discount rates, and also considering whether rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
there have been any other events that would significantly affect Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost the pension liabilities.
The impact of these changes in assumptions in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
and events has been estimated in arriving at the valuation of the Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, retirement benefit obligations.
and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement.
Exchange differences arising on non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the profit or loss for the Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 51 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Taxation Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the financial assets, other than land and assets in course of construction, over year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are following bases: taxable or deductible in other financial years and it further excludes Freehold buildings 50 years items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for Fixed equipment in freehold buildings 20 years current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or Leasehold improvements the lease term substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 to 20 years Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally Intangible assets software recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable computer hardware, the software is classified as an intangible asset.
profits will be available against which deductible temporary The capitalised costs of software for internal use include external differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing recognised if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition or obtaining the software and payroll and payroll-related costs of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business for employees who are directly associated with and who devote combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that substantial time to the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
no later than the point at which the software is substantially complete and ready for its intended internal use.
These costs are Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, which are reviewed annually.
and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is Impairment of tangible and intangible assets probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying foreseeable future.
amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash all or part of the asset to be recovered.
flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited indication that an asset may be impaired.
directly to other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates taxation authority and the group intends to settle its current tax of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
52 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is Bank borrowings estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable at fair value, net of direct issue costs.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue immediately.
costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the effective interest rate method and are added Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to not settled in the period in which they arise.
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount Trade payables that would have been determined had no impairment loss been Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories Equity instruments Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct proceeds are received, net of direct issue costs.
labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in Derivative financial instruments bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
The group uses forward foreign currency contracts to mitigate Cost is calculated using the weighted average cost formula.
the transactional impact of foreign currencies on the groups Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all performance.
The groups financial risk management policy estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, prohibits the use of derivative financial instruments for speculative selling and distribution.
or trading purposes and the group does not therefore hold or Financial instruments issue any such instruments for such purposes.
Derivative financial Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the groups instruments that are economic hedges that do not meet the strict balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement hedge provisions of the instrument.
accounting rules are accounted for as financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and hedge accounting is not Trade receivables applied.
Forward foreign currency contracts are recognised initially Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value, at fair value, which is updated at each balance sheet date.
and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Changes in the fair values are recognised in the income statement.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement Embedded derivatives when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at and the host contracts are not measured at fair value through profit initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents Market risk Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand The group is exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are exchange and interest rates.
The groups objective is to reduce, readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject where it deems appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings to an insignificant risk of change in value.
and cash flows associated with changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates and of the currency exposure of certain net Financial liabilities and equity investments in foreign subsidiaries.
It is the groups policy and Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according practice to use derivative financial instruments to manage to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
exposures of fluctuations on exchange rates.
The group only sells An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual existing assets or enters into transactions and future transactions interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
in the case of anticipatory hedges that it confidently expects it will have in the future, based on past experience.
The group expects that any loss in value for these instruments generally would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 53 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources Foreign exchange rate risk of estimation uncertainty Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, which flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of the changes are described in note 2, management has made the following in foreign exchange rates.
The group uses UK pounds sterling as judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts its reporting currency.
As a result, the group is exposed to foreign recognised in the financial statements.
exchange rate risk on financial assets and liabilities that are The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources denominated in a currency other than UK sterling, primarily of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have in US dollars and Hong Kong dollars.
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying Consequently, it enters into various contracts that reflect the changes amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are in the value of foreign exchange rates to preserve the value of discussed below.
assets, commitments and anticipated transactions.
The group also Retirement benefits uses forward contracts and options, primarily in US dollars.
Retirement benefits are accounted for under IAS 19 Employee Provisions Benefits.
For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the group will fair value.
be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at Because of changing market and economic conditions, the the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle expenses and liabilities actually arising under the plans in the future the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to may differ materially from the estimates made on the basis of these present value where the effect is material.
The plan assets are partially comprised of Share-based payments equity and fixed-income instruments.
Therefore, declining returns The group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 on equity markets and markets for fixed-income instruments could Share-based Payments.
necessitate additional contributions to the plans in order to cover future pension obligations.
Also, higher or lower withdrawal rates The group issues cash-settled and equity-settled share-based or longer or shorter life of participants may have an impact on payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based the amount of pension income or expense recorded in the future.
payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled The interest rate used to discount post-employment benefit share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over obligations to present value is derived from the yields of senior, the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares that high-quality corporate bonds at the balance sheet date.
These will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based generally include AA-rated securities.
The discount rate is based on vesting conditions.
the yield of a portfolio of bonds whose weighted residual maturities approximately correspond to the duration necessary to cover the Fair value is measured by use of the valuation technique entire benefit obligation.
considered to be most appropriate for each class of award, including Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
Pension and other post-retirement benefits are inherently long term The expected life used in the formula is adjusted, based on and future experience may differ from the actuarial assumptions managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, used to determine the net charge for pension and other postexercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements describes the principal discount rate, earnings increase and pension For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the retirement benefit obligation assumptions that have been used to portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the determine the pension and post-retirement charges in accordance current fair value determined at each balance sheet date, with with IAS 19.
The calculation of any charge relating to retirement any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
benefits is clearly dependent on the assumptions used, which reflects the exercise of judgement.
The assumptions adopted are The group also provides employees with the ability to purchase based on prior experience, market conditions and the advice of the groups ordinary shares at 80 per cent of the current market plan actuaries.
value within an approved Save As You Earn scheme.
The group records an expense based on its estimate of the 20 per cent At 26 March 2011, the groups pension liability was 37.6 million discount related to shares expected to vest on a straight-line 2010: 55.1 million.
Further details of the accounting policy on basis over the vesting period.
retirement benefits are provided in note 2.
54 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Impairment of stores property, plant and equipment Property provisions Stores property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment Descriptions of the provisions held at the balance sheet date are on a periodic basis, and whenever events or changes in given at note 23.
These provisions are estimates and the actual costs circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Such circumstances or events could include: Any differences between expectations and the actual future liability a pattern of losses involving the fixed asset: a decline in the market are accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
value for a particular store asset: and an adverse change in the Property provisions principally represent the costs of store disposals business or market in which the store asset is involved.
Determining or closures relating to the optimisation of the UK portfolio which whether an impairment has occurred typically requires various involves the closure and resiting of Mothercare and Early Learning estimates and assumptions, including determining what cash flow Centre stores and onerous lease costs relating to Early Learning is directly related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life Centres supply chain.
over which cash flows will occur, their amount and the assets residual value, if any.
Estimates of future cash flows and the selection Allowances against the carrying value of inventory of appropriate discount rates relating to particular assets or groups The group reviews the market value of and demand for its of assets involve the exercise of a significant amount of judgement.
inventories on a periodic basis to ensure that recorded inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In assessing Further details of the accounting policy on the impairment of stores the ultimate realisation of inventories, the group is required to make property, plant and equipment are provided in note 2. judgements as to future demand requirements and to compare Impairment of goodwill these with current inventory levels.
Factors that could impact Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation estimated demand and selling prices are timing and success of of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill product ranges.
The value in use calculation requires the Allowances against the carrying value of trade receivables group to estimate future cash flows expected to arise from Using information available at the balance sheet date, the group the cash-generating unit, a suitable long-term growth rate and reviews its trade receivable balances and makes judgements a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
based on an assessment of past experience, debt ageing and The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date known customer circumstance in order to determine the appropriate was 68.6 million 2010: 68.6 million.
level of allowance required to account for potential irrecoverable trade receivables.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Revenue An analysis of the groups revenue, all of which relates to continuing operations, is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Revenue 793.6 766.4 Interest revenue 0.1 Total revenue 793.7 766.4 5.
Segmental information IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the group that are regularly reported to the groups board in order to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
The groups reporting segments under IFRS 8 are UK and International.
UK comprises the groups UK store and wholesale operations, catalogue and web sales.
The International business comprises the groups franchise and wholesale revenues outside the UK.
The unallocated corporate expenses represent board and company secretarial costs and other head office costs including audit, professional fees, insurance and head office property.
52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 Unallocated corporate UK International expenses Consolidated million million million million Revenue External sales 587.2 206.4 793.6 Result Segment result underlying 11.1 27.5 7.5 31.1 Share-based payments 2.2 Non-cash foreign currency adjustments 13.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 2.3 Exceptional items 3.4 Profit from operations 9.4 Interest revenue 0.1 Finance costs 0.7 Profit before taxation 8.8 Taxation 2.3 Profit for the period 6.5 56 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 52 weeks ended 27 March 2010 Unallocated corporate UK International expenses Consolidated million million million million Revenue External sales 590.3 176.1 766.4 Result Segment result underlying 36.1 23.2 7.3 52.0 Share-based payments 14.4 Non-cash foreign currency adjustments 1.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 2.1 Exceptional items 1.0 Profit from operations 33.2 Finance costs 0.7 Profit before taxation 32.5 Taxation 8.9 Profit for the period 23.6 Revenues are attributed to countries on the basis of the customers location.
The largest international customer represents approximately 9.9 per cent 2010: 9.0 per cent of group sales.
52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 UK International Consolidated million million million Other information Capital additions 25.7 25.7 Depreciation and amortisation 23.0 23.0 Balance sheet Assets 387.1 Segment assets 277.8 109.3 Unallocated corporate assets 22.2 Consolidated total assets 409.3 Liabilities Segment liabilities 169.8 5.4 175.2 Unallocated corporate liabilities 41.3 Consolidated total liabilities 216.5 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued 52 weeks ended 27 March 2010 UK International Consolidated million million million Other information Capital additions 23.9 23.9 Depreciation and amortisation 20.5 20.5 Balance sheet Assets Segment assets 265.3 84.2 349.5 Unallocated corporate assets 60.5 Consolidated total assets 410.0 Liabilities Segment liabilities 150.5 14.6 165.1 Unallocated corporate liabilities 56.5 Consolidated total liabilities 221.6 Corporate assets not allocated to UK or International represent current tax assets liabilities, deferred tax assets liabilities, cash at bank and in hand, currency derivative assets liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
Exceptional and other non-underlying items Due to their significance or one-off nature, certain items have been classified as exceptional or non-underlying as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Exceptional items: Profit on disposal termination of property interests 0.2 1.0 Restructuring costs included in administrative expenses 3.6 Integration of ELC included in administrative expenses 0.8 Share-based payment charge included in administrative expenses 1.2 Other non-underlying items: 1 Non-cash foreign currency adjustments under IAS 39 and IAS 21 13.8 1.3 1 Amortisation of intangibles 2.3 2.1 Unwinding of discount on exceptional property provisions included in finance costs 0.2 0.3 Exceptional and other non-underlying items 19.7 4.7 1 Included in non-underlying cost of sales is a charge of 16.1 million 2010: charge of 3.4 million.
Profit on disposal termination of property interests During the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 a net credit of 0.2 million 2010: a net credit of 1.0 million has been recognised in profit from operations relating to profit on disposal termination of property interests from property restructuring and provisions against subleases and vacant property.
58 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Integration of the Early Learning Centre In the prior year 0.8 million was charged to administrative expenses relating to restructuring costs.
Restructuring costs During the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 a charge of 3.6 million 2010: nil was recognised in administrative expenses arising from a substantial restructure of the groups UK head office operations which will improve efficiency and effectiveness and result in a reduction in the ongoing cost base.
Share-based payment charge included in administrative expenses During the 52 weeks ended 27 March 2010 a charge of 1.2 million relating to the 2007 Executive Incentive Plan was recognised in administrative expenses relating to synergies achieved from the integration of the Early Learning Centre.
Profit from retail operations Profit from retail operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 440.9 413.1 Write down of inventories to net realisable value recognised as an expense 1.0 0.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16.6 15.1 Amortisation of intangible assets software 4.1 3.3 Amortisation of intangible assets other included in non-underlying cost of sales 2.3 2.1 Net rent of properties 68.2 69.1 Amortisation of lease incentives 5.9 3.4 Hire of plant and equipment 1.9 2.1 Staff costs including directors : Wages and salaries including cash bonuses, excluding share-based payment charges 87.9 87.2 Social security costs 5.5 5.6 Pension costs see note 28 4.1 3.7 Share-based payment charges see note 27 2.2 14.4 Restructuring costs included in administrative expenses 3.6 Integration of ELC included in non-underlying administrative expenses 0.8 An analysis of the average monthly number of fulland part-time employees throughout the group, including executive directors, is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 number number Number of employees 7,440 7,452 Full-time equivalents 4,650 4,486 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 59 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Profit from retail operations continued Details of directors emoluments, share options and beneficial interests are provided within the remuneration report on pages 36 to 41 and 82 to 84.
For the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011, profit from retail operations is stated after a non-underlying net charge of 13.8 million 2010: 1.3 million to cost of sales as a result of non-cash foreign currency adjustments under IAS 39 and IAS 21.
The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Total audit fees 0.3 0.3 Corporate finance services 0.2 Tax services 0.1 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.3 0.1 The nature of tax services comprises corporation tax advice and compliance services.
The corporate finance fees were in connection with investments and potential investments.
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
The policy for the approval of non-audit fees, together with an explanation of the services provided, is set out on page 35, in the corporate governance report.
Net finance costs 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Interest receivable 0.1 Interest and bank fees on bank loans and overdrafts 0.5 0.4 1 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 0.2 0.3 Finance costs 0.6 0.7 1 Non-underlying charge of 0.2 million 2010: 0.3 million of unwinding of discount on exceptional provisions see note 6.
60 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 9.
Taxation The charge for taxation on profit for the period comprises: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Current tax: Current year 8.1 8.5 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.8 1.5 7.3 7.0 Deferred tax: see note 16 Current year 5.0 0.4 Change in tax rate in respect of prior periods 0.6 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.6 1.5 5.0 1.9 Charge for taxation on profit for the period 2.3 8.9 UK corporation tax is calculated at 28 per cent 2010: 28 per cent of the estimated assessable profit for the period.
The charge for the period can be reconciled to the profit for the period before taxation per the consolidated income statement as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Profit for the period before taxation 8.8 32.5 Profit for the period before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2010: 28% 2.5 9.1 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.0 0.7 Change in tax rate 1.0 Impact of overseas tax rates 0.7 0.4 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised against capital gains 0.1 0.5 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.4 Charge for taxation on profit for the period 2.3 8.9 In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, deferred tax relating to retirement benefit obligations amounting to 4.3 million has been charged directly to equity 2010: credit of 9.0 million.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 61 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Dividends 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 52 weeks ended 27 March 2010 pence pence per share million per share million Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period Final dividend for the prior year 11.3p 9.9 9.9p 8.5 Interim dividend for the current year 6.4p 5.6 5.5p 4.7 15.5 13.2 The proposed final dividend of 11.9p per share for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 was approved by the board after 26 March 2011, on 17 May 2011, and so, in line with the requirements of IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date, the related cost of 10.5 million has not been included as a liability as at 26 March 2011.
This dividend will be paid on 5 August 2011 to shareholders on the register on 3 June 2011.
Earnings per share 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Weighted average number of shares in issue 85.8 84.4 Dilution option schemes 1.8 2.1 Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 87.6 86.5 million million Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share 6.5 23.6 Non-cash foreign currency adjustments 13.8 1.3 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition of ELC and Blooming Marvellous 2.3 2.1 Unwinding of discount on exceptional property provisions 0.2 0.3 Exceptional items note 6 3.4 1.0 Tax effect of above items 5.0 1.7 Underlying earnings 21.2 26.6 pence pence Basic earnings per share 7.6 28.0 Basic underlying earnings per share 24.7 31.5 Diluted earnings per share 7.4 27.3 Diluted underlying earnings per share 24.2 30.7 62 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 12.
Subsidiaries A list of the groups significant investments in subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned, including the name and country of incorporation is given in note 3 to the Company financial statements.
All subsidiaries are included in the consolidation.
Investments in joint ventures and associates Aggregated amounts relating to joint ventures and associates: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Investments at start of year 1.7 0.7 Additions 10.5 1.6 Disposals 0.1 Share of loss 1.8 0.5 Investments at end of year 10.4 1.7 Summary financial results and position of joint ventures and associates: Total assets 51.6 7.2 Total liabilities 25.0 2.5 Total loss for the period 6.7 1.1 Details of the joint ventures and associates are as follows: Proportion Proportion of ownership of voting Place of interest power held incorporation per cent per cent Mothercare-Goodbaby China Retail Limited Hong Kong 30 50 Rhea Retail Private Limited India 30 30 Juno Retail Private Limited India 30 30 Mothercare Australia Limited formerly known as Headline Group Limited Australia 25 25 On 18 March 2010, the group established a joint venture, Rhea Retail Private Limited.
The group holds 30 per cent of the share capital and 50 per cent of the voting rights of this company and has accounted for the company as a joint venture.
On 30 September 2010, the group acquired 23.27 per cent of the share capital of Headline Group Limited, a company registered in Australia.
On 26 November 2010 the group acquired a further 1.73 per cent bringing the groups share at that time to 25 per cent.
Headline Group Limited changed its name to Mothercare Australia Limited on 22 December 2010.
Subsequently Mothercare Australia Limited has issued further shares which has had the effect of diluting the group share.
The group has but has not yet exercised an option to acquire further shares in Mothercare Australia Limited which could increase its holding to 25 per cent.
The fair value of the Groups investment in Mothercare Australia Limited was 8.4 million as at 26 March 2011.
The reporting date of Mothercare Australia Limited is 30 June.
The group has equity accounted for Mothercare Australia Limited for six months ended 31 December 2010 as the data for the final three months to 26 March 2011 has not been made available yet and is price sensitive.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Goodwill and intangible assets Intangible assets Customer Goodwill Trade name relationships Software Total million million million million million Cost As at 28 March 2009 68.6 25.0 5.5 16.0 46.5 Acquisition of subsidiary 0.2 0.2 0.4 Additions 5.5 5.5 Disposals 0.3 0.3 As at 27 March 2010 68.6 25.2 5.7 21.2 52.1 Additions 3.1 5.2 8.3 Exchange differences 0.3 0.3 As at 26 March 2011 68.6 28.6 5.7 26.4 60.7 Amortisation and impairment As at 28 March 2009 2.2 1.5 6.9 10.6 Amortisation 1.3 0.8 3.3 5.4 Disposals 0.2 0.2 As at 27 March 2010 3.5 2.3 10.0 15.8 Amortisation 1.5 0.8 4.1 6.4 As at 26 March 2011 5.0 3.1 14.1 22.2 Net book value As at 28 March 2009 68.6 22.8 4.0 9.1 35.9 As at 27 March 2010 68.6 21.7 3.4 11.2 36.3 As at 26 March 2011 68.6 23.6 2.6 12.3 38.5 Goodwill, trade name and customer relationships relate to the acquisition of the Early Learning Centre on 19 June 2007, Gurgle Limited on 8 September 2009 and Blooming Marvellous on 7 July 2010.
Trade name and customer relationships are amortised over a useful life of 1020 and 510 years respectively.
Impairment of goodwill The group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill acquired through the business combination has been allocated to the two groups of cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination, being UK 41.8 million and International 26.8 million, which are also reporting segments.
These represent the lowest level within the group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculation are those regarding the discount rates and expected changes to selling prices.
Management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 10.4 per cent 2010: 11.1 per cent which reflects the time value of money and risks related to the CGUs.
The cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by the board covering a three-year period.
Cash flows beyond the three-year period assume a 2 per cent growth rate, which does not exceed the long-term growth rate for the market in which the group operates.
The value in use calculations use this growth rate to perpetuity.
The group has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGUs.
With reasonable possible changes in key assumptions, there is no indication that the carrying amount of the goodwill would be reduced to a lower amount.
Software Software additions include 1.6 million 2010: 1.2 million of internally generated intangible assets.
At 26 March 2011, the group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of software amounting to 0.3 million 2010: 0.9 million.
64 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 15.
At 26 March 2011, the group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 5.0 million 2010: 11.1 million.
Freehold land and buildings with a carrying amount of 9.4 million 2010: 12.1 million have been pledged to secure the groups borrowing facility see note 20.
The group is not allowed to pledge these assets as security for other borrowings.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 65 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the group and movements thereon in the current and prior reporting period: Accelerated Short-term Retirement tax timing benefit Share-based Intangible depreciation differences obligations payments assets Total million million million million million million At 28 March 2009 2.4 2.2 7.1 1.4 7.5 0.8 Charge credit to income 1.6 0.6 0.7 0.4 0.6 1.9 Credit to other comprehensive income 9.0 9.0 At 27 March 2010 4.0 1.6 15.4 1.8 6.9 7.9 Credit charge to income 1.9 3.5 1.4 0.1 0.9 5.0 Transfer to current tax 1.7 1.7 Charge to other comprehensive income 4.3 4.3 At 26 March 2011 2.1 3.4 9.7 1.9 6.0 6.9 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where the group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Deferred tax assets 18.4 21.7 Deferred tax liabilities 11.5 13.8 6.9 7.9 17.
Inventories 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Underlying 122.2 99.0 Non-underlying foreign currency adjustments 0.8 1.7 Allowance against carrying value of inventories 5.4 6.0 Finished goods and goods for resale 116.0 91.3 Due to the significant impact of the movement in foreign exchange rates over the current and prior period, particularly the US dollar, we have separately disclosed the underlying stock value.
This has been calculated on a basis consistent with the underlying performance, reflecting hedging in place, before non-underlying foreign currency adjustments made in accordance with IAS 21 see note 2.
The amount of write down of inventories to net realisable value recognised as net cost in the period is 1.0 million 2010: 0.2 million.
66 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 18.
Trade and other receivables 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Trade receivables gross 52.4 41.5 Allowance for doubtful debts 1.4 1.7 Trade receivables net 51.0 39.8 Prepayments and accrued income 8.0 13.4 Other receivables 3.5 4.5 62.5 57.7 The following summarises the movement in the allowance for doubtful debts: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Balance at beginning of year 1.7 2.0 Utilised in the year 0.1 Released in the year 0.3 0.2 Balance at end of year 1.4 1.7 The groups exposure to credit risk inherent in its trade receivables is discussed in note 21.
The group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
Before accepting any new credit customer, the group obtains a credit check from an external agency to assess the credit quality of the potential customer and then sets credit limits on a customer-by-customer basis.
The historical level of customer default is minimal and as a result the credit quality of year end trade receivables is considered to be high.
The ageing of the groups current trade receivables is as follows: 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Trade receivables gross 52.4 41.5 Allowance for doubtful debts 1.4 1.7 Trade receivables net 51.0 39.8 Of which: Amounts neither impaired nor past due on the reporting date 45.5 38.7 Amounts past due: Less than one month 2.4 1.3 Between one and three months 1.7 0.8 Between three and six months 1.6 0.3 Greater than six months 1.2 0.4 Allowance for doubtful debts 1.4 1.7 Trade accounts receivable net carrying amount 51.0 39.8 Provisions for doubtful trade accounts receivable are established based upon the difference between the receivable value and the estimated net collectible amount.
The group establishes its provision for doubtful trade accounts receivable based on its historical loss experiences and an analysis of the counterpartys current financial position.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is disclosed in note 21.
No interest is charged on trade receivables, however, the right to charge interest on outstanding balances is retained.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 67 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Borrowing facilities The group had no outstanding borrowings as at 26 March 2011 and 27 March 2010.
Overdraft The group has an unsecured overdraft facility of 10.0 million which bears interest at 1.00 per cent above bank base rates.
None of this facility was drawn down at 26 March 2011.
Committed borrowing facilities The group had 40 million of committed secured borrowing facilities available at 26 March 2011 with an interest rate of 1.70 per cent above LIBOR in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met.
The final maturity date of this facility is 31 October 2013.
As of 16 May 2011 the group refinanced with an increase of the committed secured bank facilities to 80 million at an interest rate of 1.4 per cent above LIBOR which expires after three years with an option to extend for a further two years subject to bank approval.
The uncommitted unsecured bank overdraft remains at 10 million.
Further information is included within the corporate governance statement.
Risks arising from financial instruments A.
Terms, conditions and risk management policies The board approves treasury policies and senior management directly controls day-to-day operations within these policies.
The major financial risks to which the group is exposed relate to movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Where appropriate, cost-effective and practicable the group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks.
No speculative use of derivatives, currency or other instruments is permitted.
The groups financial risk management policy is described in note 2.
The following table provides an overview of the notional value of derivative financial instruments outstanding at year end by maturity profile: 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Foreign currency forward exchange contracts: Not later than one year 139.2 142.7 After one year but not more than five years 37.3 139.2 180.0 Foreign currency option contracts: Not later than one year 6.1 6.1 If the spot rate at maturity for the foreign currency options is higher than 1.70 to the US dollar, the notional value outstanding would be 12.1 million.
The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the returns to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the statement of changes in equity.
68 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 B.
Foreign currency risk management The group incurs foreign currency risk on sales and purchases whenever they are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency.
This risk is managed through holding derivative financial instruments.
The group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce its cash flow exposure to exchange rate movements, primarily on the US dollar.
The group has not hedge accounted for its forward foreign currency contracts under the requirements of IAS 39.
Therefore, derivative financial instruments have been recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date and changes in their fair values have been recognised in the income statement.
These arrangements are designed to address significant foreign exchange exposures on forecast future purchases of goods for the following year and are renewed on a revolving basis as required.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts have been recognised separately as derivative financial instruments when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes in its fair value recognised in the income statement.
International sales represent 26 per cent 2010: 23 per cent of group sales.
Of these sales, 19 per cent 2010: 18 per cent were invoiced in foreign currency.
The group purchases product in foreign currencies, representing approximately 42 per cent 2010: 42 per cent of purchases.
The carrying amount of the groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date is as follows: Liabilities Assets 26 March 27 March 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 2011 2010 million million million million US dollar 6.5 10.3 5.8 8.4 Euro 0.3 0.6 2.1 2.0 Hong Kong dollar 3.0 2.5 0.4 0.4 Indian rupee 0.3 0.3 1.5 0.8 Chinese renminbi 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 Singapore dollar 0.4 0.1 10.4 13.8 10.3 11.8 The total amounts of outstanding forward foreign currency contracts to which the group has committed is as follows: 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million At notional value 139.2 180.0 At fair value 2.7 13.6 At 26 March 2011, the average hedged rate for outstanding forward foreign currency contracts is 1.57 for US dollars and 1.12 for euros.
These contracts mature between April 2011 and March 2012.
In addition, the fair value of embedded derivatives is nil 2010: 0.5 million.
Currency sensitivity analysis The groups foreign currency financial assets and liabilities are denominated mainly in US dollars.
The following table details the impact of a 10 per cent increase in the value of pounds sterling against the US dollar.
A negative number indicates a net decrease in the carrying value of assets and liabilities and a corresponding loss in non-underlying profit where pounds sterling strengthens against the US dollar.
26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million US dollar impact 12.5 18.1 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Risks arising from financial instruments continued C. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty may default on their obligation to the group in relation to lending, hedging, settlement and other financial activities.
The groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to counterparty credit risk is monitored.
The group mitigates its exposure to counterparty credit risk through minimum counterparty credit guidelines, diversification of counterparties, working within agreed counterparty limits and trade insurance and bank guarantees where appropriate.
The carrying amount of the financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure of the group.
The carrying amount is presented net of impairment losses recognised.
The maximum exposure to credit risk comprises trade receivables as shown in note 18 and cash and cash equivalents of 15.3 million.
The average credit period on trade receivables was 23 days 2010: 18 days based on total group revenue.
D. Liquidity risk Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the groups short-, mediumand long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Included in note 20 is a description of additional undrawn facilities that the group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
Trade and other payables 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Current liabilities Trade payables 77.5 59.1 Payroll and other taxes including social security 2.0 4.2 Accruals and deferred income 42.6 51.5 VAT payable 4.0 2.1 Lease incentives 4.0 3.7 130.1 120.6 Non-current liabilities Lease incentives 32.3 26.2 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 62 days 2010: 51 days.
The group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
70 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 23.
Provisions 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Current liabilities Property provisions 5.2 8.5 Other provisions 0.4 0.5 Short-term provisions 5.6 9.0 Non-current liabilities Property provisions 6.8 8.9 Other provisions 0.4 0.4 Long-term provisions 7.2 9.3 Property provisions 12.0 17.4 Other provisions 0.8 0.9 Total provisions 12.8 18.3 The movement on total provisions is as follows: Property Other Total provisions provisions provisions million million million Balance at 28 March 2010 17.4 0.9 18.3 Utilised in year 6.0 0.3 6.3 Charged in year 1.5 0.2 1.7 Released in year 1.1 1.1 Unwinding of discount 0.2 0.2 Balance at 26 March 2011 12.0 0.8 12.8 Property provisions principally represent the costs of store disposals or closures relating to the optimisation of the UK portfolio which involves the closure and resiting of Mothercare and Early Learning Centre stores and onerous lease costs, principally relating to Early Learning Centres supply chain.
The timing of the utilisation of the above provisions is variable dependent upon the lease expiry dates of the properties concerned.
Other provisions principally represent provisions for uninsured losses, hence the timing of the utilisation of these provisions is uncertain.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Called up share capital 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 52 weeks 52 weeks 26 March 27 March ended ended 2011 2010 26 March 27 March Number Number 2011 2010 of shares of shares million million Allotted, called up and fully paid Ordinary shares of 50 pence each: Balance at beginning of year 88,116,381 87,602,632 44.1 43.8 Issued under the Mothercare 2000 Executive Share Option Plan 71,394 463,429 0.2 Issued under the Mothercare Sharesave Scheme 352,444 50,320 0.2 0.1 Balance at end of year 88,540,219 88,116,381 44.3 44.1 Further details of employee and executive share schemes are given in note 27.
The own shares reserve of 9.0 million 2010: 8.9 million represents the cost of shares in Mothercare plc purchased in the market and held by the Mothercare Employee Trusts to satisfy options under the groups share option schemes see note 27.
Reconciliation of cash flow from operating activities 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Profit from retail operations 11.0 32.7 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16.6 15.1 Amortisation of intangible assets software 4.1 3.3 Amortisation of intangible assets other 2.3 2.1 Underlying losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.9 1.0 Losses on disposal of intangible assets software 0.1 Loss on non-underlying non-cash foreign currency adjustments 13.8 1.3 Equity-settled share-based payments 2.6 2.6 Movement in property provisions 5.7 5.0 Movement in integration provisions 3.3 Movement in other provisions 0.1 0.1 Amortisation of lease incentives 5.9 3.4 Lease incentives received 9.6 10.2 Payments to retirement benefit schemes 5.2 6.1 Charge to profit from operations in respect of retirement benefit schemes 4.1 3.7 Operating cash flow before movement in working capital 48.1 54.4 Increase in inventories 23.9 7.2 Increase in receivables 4.8 2.9 Increase in payables 13.7 13.5 Cash generated from operations 33.1 57.8 Income taxes paid 6.0 7.7 Net cash flow from operating activities 27.1 50.1 72 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 26.
Operating lease arrangements The group as lessee: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Amounts recognised in cost of sales for the year: Minimum lease payments paid 70.4 71.7 Contingent rents 0.4 0.4 Minimum sublease payments received 0.7 0.9 Net rent expense for the year 70.1 71.2 Contingent rent relates to store properties where an element of the rent payable is determined with reference to store turnover.
At the balance sheet date, the group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Not later than one year 72.5 74.5 After one year but not more than five years 212.5 229.3 After five years 214.1 240.0 Total future minimum lease payments 499.1 543.8 At the balance sheet date, the group had contracted with subtenants for the following future minimum lease payments: 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Not later than one year 1.2 1.1 After one year but not more than five years 3.0 1.5 After five years 4.3 4.3 Total future minimum lease payments 8.5 6.9 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payments An expense is recognised for share-based payments based on the fair value of the awards at the date of grant for those awards due to be equity-settled and at year end for those due to be cash-settled, the estimated number of shares that will vest and the vesting period of each award.
The underlying charge for share-based payments under IFRS is 2.2 million 2010: 14.4 million, including national insurance, of which 2.6 million 2010: 2.3 million was equity-settled.
In the prior year there was an exceptional charge for share-based payments of 1.2 million of which 0.3 million was equity-settled, relating to synergies achieved from the integration of the Early Learning Centre.
These charges relate to the following schemes: A.
Save As You Earn schemes C. Executive Incentive Plan D. Performance Share Plan E. Deferred Shares Scheme Details of the share schemes that the group operates are provided in the directors remuneration report on pages 36 to 41.
For each scheme, expected volatility was determined with reference to the 90-day volatility of the groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in each model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The dates of exercise are not disclosed, as it is not deemed practicable to do so.
Executive share option scheme Share options may be granted to executives and senior managers at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the groups shares on the date of grant.
The options vest after three years, conditional on the groups share price exceeding 3 per cent per annum compound growth over the vesting period.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, they expire.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the group before the options vest.
The number of options outstanding under the executive share option scheme is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended Weighted 26 March 27 March average 2011 2010 option Number Number price of shares of shares Balance at beginning of year 319p 111,407 589,603 Forfeited during year 321p 24,838 14,767 Exercised during year 314p 56,569 463,429 Balance at end of year 326p 30,000 111,407 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 530p, ranging from 502p to 602p.
The options outstanding at 26 March 2011 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.3 years.
74 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 B.
Save As You Earn schemes The employee Save As You Earn schemes are open to all employees and provide for a purchase price equal to the daily average market price on the date of grant, less 20 per cent.
The shares can be purchased during a two-week period in the year of grant and are placed in the employee Save As You Earn trust for a three-year period.
The number of shares outstanding under the Save As You Earn schemes is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended Weighted 26 March 27 March average 2011 2010 exercise Number Number price of shares of shares Balance at beginning of year 302p 1,243,132 1,229,082 Granted during year 230,951 Forfeited during year 318p 124,129 152,632 Exercised during year 283p 349,944 50,320 Expired during year 284p 446 13,949 Balance at end of year 308p 768,613 1,243,132 The shares outstanding at 26 March 2011 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.5 years.
The fair value of Save As You Earn share options is calculated based on a Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: December December December Grant date 2009 2008 2007 Number of options granted 230,951 635,038 743,552 Share price at grant date 676p 237p 284p Exercise price 497p 237p 284p Expected volatility 30.0% 30.0% 25.0% Risk-free rate 3.00% 2.00% 5.00% Expected dividend yield 3.00% 3.50% 3.00% Time to expiry 3.25 years 3.25 years 3.25 years Fair value of option 172.9p 41.1p 53.1p C. Executive Incentive Plan The Executive Incentive Plan is a conditional award based on surplus value created over a three-year performance period.
The surplus value is calculated as the difference between the total shareholder return of Mothercare and that of the FTSE All-Share General Retailers Index, multiplied by Mothercares market capitalisation.
The remuneration committee has the discretion to allow up to 50 per cent of the award to be paid in shares and deferred for one year for the 2007 and 2008 schemes.
For accounting purposes it is assumed that the remuneration committee will exercise this discretion, so the cost of the equity-settled half of the award is now fixed at the grant date.
The cash-settled half of the award will be fair valued each year and a true-up adjustment made.
The 2009 and 2010 schemes are wholly share settled schemes where some of the shares can be delivered on vesting and the remainder deferred.
The fair value of the Executive Incentive Plan award is calculated using a binomial model with the following assumptions at grant date: Grant date June 2010 May 2009 July 2008 Market capitalisation at award date 562.7m 338.4m 337.2m Expected Mothercare share price volatility 30.0% 30.0% 25.0% Expected Index volatility 30.0% 30.0% 20.0% Risk-free rate 2.68% 3.70% 5.05% Correlation between Mothercare and the Index 50.0% 50.0% 45.0% Time to expiry 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value at grant date 3.0m 1.8m 2.2m Fair value at 26 March 2011 1.1m 0.7m 4.6m Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payments continued D. Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan is a conditional award of shares based on the expected growth in Mothercares profit before taxation over three years.
The number of shares outstanding under the Performance Share Plan is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 Number Number of shares of shares Balance at beginning of year 1,430,838 1,970,015 Awarded during year 641,855 Lapsed during year 235,805 21,435 Vested during year 503,999 517,742 Balance at end of year 1,332,889 1,430,838 The fair value of the plan award is calculated based on Mothercares estimate of future profit per share growth.
November June November June Grant date 2010 2010 2008 2008 Number of shares awarded 62,992 578,863 39,576 958,500 Share price at date of grant 522p 520p 284p 374p Exercise price nil nil nil nil Time to expiry 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value per share nil nil nil nil E. Deferred Shares Scheme The Deferred Shares scheme is a conditional award of shares determined on historic group performance.
The number of shares outstanding under the Deferred Shares scheme is as follows: 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 Number of shares Balance at beginning of year Awarded during year 192,119 Lapsed during year 24,829 Vested during year Balance at end of year 167,290 June June Grant date 2010 2010 Number of shares awarded 96,060 96,060 Share price at date of grant 557p 557p Exercise price nil nil Time to expiry 2 years 3 years Two tranches of shares were awarded in June 2010: 96,060 vest in two years and 96,060 vest in three years.
76 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 28.
Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes The group operates defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for all qualifying employees of Early Learning Centre Limited and Mothercare UK Limited.
The total cost charged to income of 0.6 million 2010: 0.4 million represents contributions due and paid to these schemes by the group at rates specified in the rules of the plan.
Defined benefit schemes The group has operated two defined benefit pension schemes for employees of Mothercare UK Limited during the year.
On 28 March 2004, the final salary scheme was closed to new entrants and a career average scheme was introduced to replace it.
Existing members were asked to either increase their contributions from an average of 4.8 per cent to an average of 6.8 per cent or accrue future benefits on a career average basis.
In 2009 the schemes were closed to new entrants.
The pension scheme assets are held in a separate trustee administered fund to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The trustees of the fund are required to act in the best interest of the funds beneficiaries.
For the protection of members interests, the group has appointed three trustees, two of whom are independent of the group.
To maintain this independence, the trustees and not the group are responsible for appointing their own successors.
The most recent full actuarial valuations were carried out as at 31 March 2008 and the next full valuation will be carried out as at 31 March 2011 for both schemes.
The most recent full actuarial valuations were updated as at 26 March 2011 for the purpose of these disclosures with the advice of professionally qualified actuaries.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and the past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit method.
The IAS 19 valuation conducted for the period ending 26 March 2011 disclosed a net defined pension deficit of 37.6 million 2010: 55.1 million.
The major assumptions used in the updated actuarial valuations were: 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 Discount rate 5.5% 5.6% Future pension increases 3.4% 3.6% Expected rate of salary increases 3.5% 4.7% Expected return on schemes assets 7.0% 7.2% Analysed between: Equities 8.3% 8.6% Bonds 5.1% 5.4% Property 6.3% 6.6% Alternative assets 7.3% 7.5% Other assets 5.1% 5.4% The overall expected rate of return on assets is calculated as the weighted average of the expected returns from each of the asset classes.
The returns quoted above are net of investment management expenses but before adjustment to allow for the expected administrative and other expenses of running the schemes.
The mortality assumptions used are the SAPS tables published by the CMI allowing for future improvements in line with the medium cohort projection and a 1 per cent floor.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The effects of movements in the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities for every change in the relevant assumption are set out below: Impact on scheme Change in liabilities Assumption assumption million Discount rate - 0.1% - 5.6 - 0.5% - 28.0 Rate of salary growth - 0.5% - 2.7 Life expectancy 1 year 7.4 Amounts expensed in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit schemes are as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Current service cost 2.9 2.1 Interest cost 14.1 11.4 Expected return on schemes assets 13.5 10.2 3.5 3.3 Current service cost, interest cost and expected return on schemes assets have been included in administrative expenses.
The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 11.0 million 2010: a gain of 44.1 million, resulting in an actuarial loss of 2.5 million 2010: gain of 33.9 million.
There was an actuarial gain of 19.0 million 2010: a loss of 66.0 million relating to the defined benefit obligations.
The UK Government announced on 8 July 2010 that it will in future use the Consumer Price Index CPI rather than the Retail Prices Index RPI as the measure of price inflation for the purposes of regulating occupational pension schemes.
The groups current UK defined benefit pension scheme consists of a number of tranches, each of which is covered by slightly different rules.
The rules for some of the tranches specify that pensions will increase in line with the annual statutory order published by the UK Government.
The group has therefore amended its assumption for increase to these tranches of the scheme to reflect that future increase on those tranches will be calculated using CPI rather than RPI.
The resulting reduction in the present value of scheme liabilities of 8.6 million is treated as a change in actuarial assumptions, and this is included in the total net actuarial gains for the period of 16.5 million, which can be seen in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amount recognised in other comprehensive income for the year ending 26 March 2011 is a gain of 16.5 million 2010: a loss of 32.1 million.
The total cumulative actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income is 32.1 million 2010: 48.6 million.
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement schemes is as follows: 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Present value of defined benefit obligations 246.0 252.1 Fair value of schemes assets 208.4 197.0 Liability recognised in balance sheet 37.6 55.1 78 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million At beginning of year 252.1 175.6 Service cost 2.9 2.1 Interest cost 14.1 11.4 Contribution from scheme members 1.7 1.8 Actuarial gains losses 19.0 66.0 Benefits paid 5.8 4.8 At end of year 246.0 252.1 Movements in the fair value of schemes assets were as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million At beginning of year 197.0 150.2 Actual return on schemes assets 11.0 44.1 Company contributions 4.5 5.7 Members contributions 1.7 1.8 Benefits paid 5.8 4.8 At end of year 208.4 197.0 The analysis of the fair values of the schemes assets and the expected rates of return at each balance sheet date were: 26 March 26 March 27 March 27 March 2011 2011 2010 2010 per cent million per cent million Equities 8.3 94.8 8.6 97.2 Bonds 5.1 57.3 5.4 64.5 Property 6.3 26.1 6.6 24.9 Alternative assets 7.3 30.1 7.5 9.0 Other assets 5.1 0.1 5.4 1.4 208.4 197.0 The history of experience adjustments is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended ended ended ended 26 March 27 March 28 March 29 March 31 March 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Present value of defined benefit obligations 246.0m 252.1m 175.6m 167.3m 191.6m Fair value of schemes assets 208.4m 197.0m 150.2m 181.1m 193.6m Deficit surplus in the schemes 37.6m 55.1m 25.4m 13.8m 2.0m Experience adjustments on schemes liabilities 19.0m 66.0m 1.9m 35.1m 17.3m Percentage of schemes liabilities 7.7% 26.2% 1.1% 21.0% 9.0% Experience adjustments on schemes assets 2.5m 33.9m 44.9m 26.9m 1.2m Percentage of schemes assets 1.2% 17.2% 29.9% 14.9% 0.6% The estimated amount of cash contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during the 52 weeks ending 24 March 2012 is 4.9 million, which includes 2.8 million paid on 31 March 2011.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the group and its joint ventures are disclosed below.
Trading transactions During the year, group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the group: 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 Amounts Amounts owed by owed to Sales of Purchase related related goods of goods parties parties million million million million Joint ventures and associates 14.3 8.4 52 weeks ended 27 March 2010 Amounts Amounts owed by owed to Sales of Purchase related related goods of goods parties parties million million million million Joint ventures and associates 1.3 1.7 Sales of goods to related parties were made at the groups usual cost prices.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Other transactions During the year, the group sold a freehold property on an arms length basis to the Mothercare defined benefit pension scheme for cash of 3.0 million.
There were no amounts outstanding in relation to this transaction at the period end.
80 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the operating board including directors, who are the key management personnel of the group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the remuneration report on pages 36 to 41.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 26 March 27 March 2011 2010 million million Short-term employee benefits 3.7 3.0 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 Share-based payments 1.8 11.1 5.9 14.5 Other transactions with key management personnel There were no other transactions with key management personnel.
Events after the balance sheet date There were no events after the balance sheet date.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 81
