Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2011 81 1 Corporate information The consolidated accounts of National Express Group PLC and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 29 February 2012.
National Express Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Business Review that accompanies these accounts.
2 Accounting policies Statement of compliance These accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted by the European Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Acts 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group has previously disclosed that its accounting policy relating to the Railways Pension Scheme RPS represents a departure from the requirements of IAS 19.
This was principally based on an assessment performed at the time of adoption of IFRS in 2005.
During the current period, the Directors have reviewed the accounting standards and current industry practice, and have concluded that the Groups accounting policy complies with IAS 19.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis see Directors report on page 71 under the historical cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and available for sale investments.
The consolidated accounts are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand Pounds 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied in preparing the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011 is set out below.
Significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The most significant judgements were: Tax provisions Assessing the outcome of uncertain tax positions requires judgements to be made regarding the result of negotiations with and enquires from tax authorities in a number of jurisdictions.
The assessments made are based on advice from independent tax advisors and the status of ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities.
The key accounting estimates are: Goodwill and impairment Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 14 to the accounts.
Retirement benefit obligations Determining the amount of the Groups retirement benefit obligations and the net costs of providing such benefits requires assumptions to be made concerning long-term interest rates, inflation, salary and pension increases, investment returns and longevity of current and future pensioners.
Changes in these assumptions could significantly impact the amount of the obligations or the cost of providing such benefits.
The Group makes assumptions concerning these matters with the assistance of advice from independent qualified actuaries.
Details of the assumptions made are set out in note 34.
Insurance The estimation of the insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 82 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Adjustments are made to bring any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist into line with the Groups accounting policies.
On acquisition of a business, the purchase method of accounting is adopted, and the Group income statement includes the results of subsidiaries and businesses purchased during the year from the date control is assumed.
The purchase consideration is allocated to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
On the sale of a business, the Group income statement includes the results of that business to the date of disposal.
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of comprehensive income and equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent Company shareholders and is presented separately from parent shareholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Interests in joint ventures The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties to share control of other entities which represent joint ventures.
The Group recognises its interest in the entitys assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
The Group balance sheet includes the appropriate share of these joint ventures net assets or liabilities and the income statement includes the appropriate share of their results after tax.
Accounts of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Adjustments are made in the Groups accounts to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled entities.
The Group ceases to use the equity method from the date it no longer has joint control over the entity.
Interests in associates Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates.
The consolidated accounts include the appropriate share of these associates results and net assets based on their latest accounts under the equity method.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year and there have been no changes in accounting standards during the year that have had a material effect on the Group.
Income statement presentation The income statement has been presented in a columnar format to enable users of the financial statements to view the normalised results of the Group.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following, as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of businesses, exceptional profit or loss on the sale of non-current assets and charges for goodwill impairment, amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items and intangibles.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, due to their nature and infrequency require separate identification on the face of the income statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the year, in comparison to prior years.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 83 2 Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Rendering of services Revenue comprises income from road passenger transport, train passenger services and related activities in the UK, North America and Europe.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales tax.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
UK Rail revenue includes amounts attributed to the train operating companies TOCs, based principally on agreed models of route usage by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts.
In addition, net franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport Rail Division DfT Rail and local Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue.
Net franchise agreement payments to DfT Rail are recognised in operating costs.
UK Coach revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales.
UK Bus and European Coach & Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport authorities, which is recognised as the services are provided.
For all the divisions noted above, the relevant share of season ticket or travelcard income is deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travelcard.
North American Bus revenue from school boards and similar contracts is recognised as the services are provided.
Rental income Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance income Revenue is recognised using the effective interest method.
Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in liabilities as deferred income and are credited to the income statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned.
Other grants are credited to the income statement as the related expenditure is expensed.
Segmental reporting Each of the Groups business and geographical segments provides services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the other business segments.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations the distinct business segments align directly with geographical segments which are operating in separate economic environments.
The Groups segments comprise: UK Bus: UK Coach: UK Rail: North American Bus: European Coach & Bus: and Central functions.
These segments are described in more detail in the Operating Review accompanying these accounts.
Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment.
Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet.
The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
All material arrangements and transactions entered into by the Group are reviewed to check whether they contain elements that meet the accounting definition of a lease, although they may not follow the legal form of a lease.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 84 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred except where they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Current tax and deferred tax Current tax is provided on taxable profits earned according to the local tax rates applicable where the profits are earned.
Income taxes are recognised in the income statement unless they relate to an item accounted for in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the current tax are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of all material temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, apart from the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill: where an asset or liability is recognised in a transaction that is not a business combination and that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that future taxable profits will be available against which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately that meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets, are capitalised at cost and when acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life assets are amortised on a straight-line basis and indefinite life assets are not amortised.
The amortisation expense is taken to the income statement through operating expenses.
The existing finite life intangible assets have a residual value of nil and are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: Customer contracts over the life of the contract between 1 and 33 years Right to operate TOC franchises over the life of the franchise between 1 and 7 years Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and the useful lives of finite life intangible assets are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Finite life assets are reviewed for impairment where indicators of impairment exist.
The Groups indefinite life intangible assets include customer relationships and goodwill.
Customer relationship intangible assets are recognised only on contracts where historical experience has shown that these contracts are consistently renewed.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 85 2 Accounting policies continued Software Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include software licences, consulting costs attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software.
Costs in respect of training are expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to the income statement over its estimated useful life seven years.
The carrying value of intangibles is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at historic cost less any accumulated impairment.
If an acquisition gives rise to an excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost previously referred to as negative goodwill, this is credited immediately to the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill is not amortised.
All goodwill is subject to an annual test of impairment and an impairment charge recognised as required.
Fair value accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
Fair value adjustments based on provisional estimates are amended within one year of the acquisition if required, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, in order to refine adjustments to reflect further evidence gained post acquisition.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on the disposal of the operation.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Under the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1, the Group elected to deem the fair value of certain revalued assets to be equivalent to cost.
Land and buildings comprise mainly vehicle depots and garages, and offices.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years Long leasehold property improvements 15 to 40 years Public service vehicles 8 to 15 years Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 to 15 years Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 86 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Impairment of non-financial assets All non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, except for indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill which are reviewed annually.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows.
In assessing value in use, the estimated risk adjusted future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Except for goodwill impairments, a review is made at each reporting date of any previous impairment losses to assess whether they no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and any previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to assess the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased, subject to a limit of the assets net book value had no previous impairment loss been recognised.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Future depreciation or amortisation is then adjusted to allocate the assets revised carrying amount over its remaining useful economic life.
Impairments to goodwill cannot be reversed.
Financial instruments The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are presented in the income statement within finance costs in the period in which they arise.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Groups investments in entities that are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the income statement.
Where there is no active market for the Groups investments, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial transactions and discounted cash flow analyses.
In the absence of any other reliable external information, assets are carried at cost or amortised cost as appropriate.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 87 2 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency forward exchange contracts, fuel derivatives and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency, fuel price and interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported balance sheet.
The fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts, interest rate and fuel derivatives is calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end.
The Groups fuel derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges.
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the income statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the income statement.
The Groups interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted through the income statement for the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, in this case movements in the risk free interest rate.
Foreign currency derivatives are used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign currency denominated operations and to the extent they are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against foreign exchange exposure in the related assets and liabilities.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Foreign currency forward contracts are also used to hedge transactional exposures.
These contacts are not hedge accounted and all gains and losses are taken direct directly to the income statement.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a FIFO basis, after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Pre-contract costs Pre-contract costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred up to the point when a franchise is awarded.
From this point in time, they are recognised as an asset and are expensed to the income statement over the life of the franchise.
Costs associated with the commencement of all new contracts other than rail franchises are expensed as incurred.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
Doubtful debts are provided for when collection of the full amount is no longer probable, whilst bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short-term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts.
In the consolidated balance sheet, cash includes cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts that have no legal right of set-off against cash and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
Trade and other payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest-bearing borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost being the net fair value of the consideration received plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial asset or liability.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 88 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Insurance The Groups policy is to self-insure high frequency claims within the businesses.
To provide protection above these types of losses the Group purchases insurance cover from a selection of proven and financially strong insurers.
The insurance provision is based on estimated exposures at the year end principally for claims arising in the UK and North America prior to the year-end date, subject to the overall stop loss within the Groups insurance arrangements.
The majority of provisions will be utilised within six years, and the provision has been discounted to take account of the expected timing of future cash settlements.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group has a number of pension schemes, both of a defined benefit and defined contribution nature.
Full details are provided in note 34.
The balance sheet position in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises the net value for each scheme of the present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation triennially, separately for each plan, but the obligation is updated annually for financial reporting purposes by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outflows discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related liability.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are recognised in staff pension costs within operating costs in the income statement.
Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The finance elements of the pension cost, comprising the expected return on assets of funded defined benefit schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities, are also included in operating costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Our TOCs participate in the RPS, a defined benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these sections whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the employee.
A liability is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability represents the deficit that the Group expects to fund during the franchise term.
The charges in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised when they are due.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Share-based payment The Group awards equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax discount rate.
The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Contingent liabilities are obligations that arise from past events that are dependent on future events.
They are disclosed in the notes to the accounts where the expected future outflow is not probable.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 89 2 Accounting policies continued Share capital, share premium and dividends Where either the Company or employee share trusts purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders equity as Own shares until they are cancelled or reissued.
Any consideration subsequently received on sale or re-issue is included in shareholders equity.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Groups accounts on the date when dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and it either represents a separate major line of business or geographical area: is part of a plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area: or was an acquired subsidiary intended for resale.
The resulting profit or loss from discontinued operations is reported separately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
Foreign currencies The trading results of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling, the presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of the parent, using average rates of exchange for the year as a reasonable approximation to actual exchange rates at the dates of transactions.
The balance sheets of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end and exchange differences arising are taken directly to the translation reserve in equity.
On disposal of a foreign currency denominated subsidiary, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the translation reserve since 1 January 2004 under the transitional rules of IFRS 1 relating to that entity is recognised in the income statement.
All other translation differences are taken to the income statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts which are used to provide a hedge against the Group net investments in foreign enterprises.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the income statement.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards, interpretations and amendments with an effective date after the date of these financial statements, which the directors expect may have a material impact on the accounts of the Group in future periods: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 the standard establishes the principles for the presentation of consolidated accounts when an entity controls one or more other entities.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 the standard determines the type of joint arrangement by assessing the rights and obligations, and accounts for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of joint arrangement.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other entities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 the standard sets out the requirements to disclose information that enables users of accounts to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, its interests in other entities and the effects of these interests on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 the standard defines fair value, and a framework for measuring fair value.
IAS 19 Employee benefits revised effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 the standard will impact the measurement of the various components representing movements in the defined benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures, but not the Groups total obligation.
It is likely that following the replacement of expected returns on plan assets with a net finance cost in the income statement, the profit for the period will be reduced and accordingly other comprehensive income increased.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 the standard deals with the classification, recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, but has yet to be adopted by the EU.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 90 continued 3 Exchange rates The most significant exchange rates to UK Sterling for the Group are as follows: 2011 2011 2010 2010 Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate US dollar 1.55 1.61 1.56 1.55 Canadian dollar 1.58 1.58 1.56 1.61 Euro 1.20 1.15 1.17 1.17 If the results for the year to 31 December 2010 had been retranslated at the average exchange rates for the year to 31 December 2011, North American Bus would have achieved normalised operating profit of 35.8m on revenue of 447.9m, compared to normalised operating profit of 36.9m on revenue of 459.8m as reported, and European Bus & Coach would have achieved a normalised operating profit of 87.2m on revenue of 531.4m, compared to normalised operating profit of 86.2m on revenue of 525.6m as reported.
4 Revenue 2011 2010 m m Rendering of services 2,231.3 2,118.8 Rental income 6.7 7.1 Revenue 2,238.0 2,125.9 Finance income 6.7 4.8 Total revenue from continuing operations 2,244.7 2,130.7 5 Segmental analysis The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the public transport services they provide and the geographical market they operate in.
Commentary on the segments is included in the Business Review.
Analysis by class and geography of business External Inter-segment Segment External Inter-segment Segment revenue sales revenue revenue sales revenue 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m UK Bus 263.1 0.4 263.5 257.3 0.5 257.8 UK Coach 254.5 4.6 259.1 245.7 4.6 250.3 UK Rail 688.3 688.3 637.5 637.5 Inter-segment sales elimination 5.0 5.0 5.1 5.1 UK operations 1,205.9 1,205.9 1,140.5 1,140.5 North American Bus 481.0 481.0 459.8 459.8 European Coach & Bus 551.1 551.1 525.6 525.6 Total revenue 2,238.0 2,238.0 2,125.9 2,125.9 Inter-segment sales represent rail replacement services provided to UK Rail by UK Bus and UK Coach.
Inter-segment trading is undertaken on standard arms length commercial terms.
Due to the nature of the Groups businesses, the origin and destination of revenue is the same.
No single external customer amounts to 10% or more of the total revenue.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 91 5 Segmental analysis continued Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Intangible Intangible amortisation amortisation Normalised and Normalised and operating exceptional Segment Segment operating exceptional Segment Segment profit items result result profit items result result 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m m m UK Bus 32.7 32.7 28.3 6.7 21.6 UK Coach 34.9 34.9 32.0 0.1 31.9 UK Rail 43.4 1.7 41.7 33.8 20.7 13.1 UK operations 111.0 1.7 109.3 94.1 27.5 66.6 North American Bus 47.9 3.3 44.6 36.9 34.3 2.6 European Coach & Bus 90.1 45.8 44.3 86.2 47.8 38.4 Central functions 14.6 14.6 13.0 8.7 21.7 Project costs 9.2 9.2 Result from continuing operations 225.2 50.8 174.4 204.2 118.3 85.9 Result from discontinued operations 0.5 Total result 174.4 85.9 0.5 Loss on disposal of non-current assets Profit loss from operations 174.4 85.9 0.5 Share of post tax results from associates and joint ventures 1.4 0.3 Net finance costs 46.4 46.0 129.4 40.2 0.5 Profit loss before tax Tax charge credit 26.8 22.5 0.1 Profit loss for the year 102.6 62.7 0.4 One off project related costs of 9.2m have been charged within operating costs.
5.2m relates to the settlement and associated legal expenses of a working time claim in North America: the remainder relates to external fees in response to the Competition Commission enquiry into the UK bus industry, costs associated with the acquisition of Petermann and professional fees relating to the strategic and Board debate ahead of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 92 continued 5 Segmental analysis continued Intangible asset amortisation and operating exceptional items can be analysed by class and location of business as follows: Intangible Operating asset exceptional amortisation items Total 2011 2011 2011 m m m UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail 1.7 1.7 North American Bus 3.3 3.3 European Coach & Bus 45.8 45.8 Central functions Total continued operations 50.8 50.8 Discontinued operations note 11 Total 50.8 50.8 Intangible Operating asset exceptional amortisation items Total 2010 2010 2010 m m m UK Bus 6.7 6.7 UK Coach 0.2 0.1 0.1 UK Rail 2.4 18.3 20.7 North American Bus 8.6 25.7 34.3 European Coach & Bus 45.9 1.9 47.8 Central functions 8.7 8.7 Total continued operations 57.1 61.2 118.3 Discontinued operations note 11 0.5 0.5 Total 57.1 61.7 118.8 There have been no exceptional costs incurred during 2011.
In the year to 31 December 2010, exceptional costs of 18.3m were incurred in UK Rail.
This comprised additional costs following a full and final settlement with the Department for Transport in relation to the National Express East Coast franchise exit and costs associated with related contracts.
Exceptional restructuring and redundancy costs of 25.7m were incurred in North American Bus in delivering the Business Recovery programme.
Restructuring costs of 15.3m were incurred in the UK following changes in management in UK Coach and Central functions, the relocation of the head office from London to Birmingham and other operational and corporate projects.
In addition, rationalisation costs of 1.9m were incurred in European Coach & Bus.
The net capital expenditure, after allowing for the movements in capital creditors, disposal of fixed assets and payments to acquire intangibles, was 145.8m 2010: 121.6m.
Capital expenditure comprises property, plant and equipment additions as disclosed above and in note 15.
In 2011 software intangible assets of 1.3m 2010: 2.0m were acquired in North America and disclosed in note 14.
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise the following items: Unallocated Unallocated Unallocated Unallocated assets liabilities assets liabilities 2011 2011 2010 2010 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 92.5 128.8 Other debt receivables 0.7 0.8 Current tax 0.9 19.7 3.4 12.1 Non-current tax 5.4 12.3 Available for sale investments 7.6 7.8 Derivative financial assets liabilities 52.1 2.6 25.5 17.5 Borrowings, excluding finance leases 621.9 637.9 Dividend payable 0.5 0.5 Deferred tax 95.2 2.8 86.9 Total 153.8 745.3 169.1 767.2 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 94 continued 6 Operating costs 2011 2010 m m Cost of inventories recognised in expense 66.0 75.8 Staff costs including exceptional cost of nil 2010: 12.8m 816.7 801.8 Depreciation Owned assets 92.8 84.4 Leased assets 12.7 15.4 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 1.5 1.7 Operating lease charges Rolling stock: capital element 101.2 87.4 Rolling stock: non-capital element 45.6 37.3 Public service vehicles 4.3 4.4 Other 7.6 10.9 Plant and equipment 158.7 140.0 Fixed track access 57.3 57.0 Other 33.3 41.9 Land and buildings 90.6 98.9 Foreign exchange differences 0.9 Other charges including exceptional expense of nil 2010: 48.4m 777.7 768.3 Operating costs before intangible asset amortisation 2,012.8 1,982.9 Intangible asset amortisation 50.8 57.1 Total operating costs 2,063.6 2,040.0 The TOCs have fixed track access contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure tracks, stations and depots.
The TOCs also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased.
The capital element of the rolling stock lease charge is based on the purchase price, capital funded refurbishments and modifications.
The non-capital element of the lease charge includes heavy maintenance charges and charges based on mileage.
An analysis of fees paid to the Groups auditors is provided below: 2011 2010 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the consolidated and parent Company accounts 0.3 0.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.6 0.7 Tax services 1.0 Corporate finance services 0.1 Other services 0.6 0.9 2.9 Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 95 7 Employee benefit costs a Staff costs 2011 2010 m m Wages and salaries 704.4 691.8 Social security costs 95.6 90.8 Pension costs note 34 11.7 15.3 Share-based payment note 8 5.0 3.9 816.7 801.8 Included within staff costs are exceptional costs of nil 2010: 12.8m.
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 Managerial and administrative 3,318 3,341 Operational 35,603 34,063 38,921 37,404 Included in the above costs are the following costs related to the Groups key management personnel who comprise the Directors of the parent Company.
2011 2010 m m Fees 0.4 Basic salaries 1.0 1.2 Benefits 0.3 0.5 Performance-related bonuses 1.2 1.3 Share-based payment 1.0 1.3 3.5 4.7 b Share schemes Details of options or awards outstanding as at 31 December 2011 under the Groups share schemes are as follows: Number of Number of Future Exercise share options share options exercise 2011 2010 price periods Executive Share Option Plan 57,042 149,211 207p-448p 2012-2014 Long Term Incentive Plan 5,093,870 4,043,170 nil 2012-2014 Share Matching Plan 1,026,550 1,037,951 nil 2012-2014 Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan 1,075,762 1,027,658 nil 2012-2014 WMT Long Service Option Scheme 7,530 nil n a WMT Long Service Option Scheme 296,361 308,330 129-604p 2012-2020 Sharesave Scheme 923,603 1,003,187 479p 2012 Executive Deferred Benefit Plan 88,968 nil 2012 8,562,156 7,577,037 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 96 continued 7 Employee benefit costs continued b Share schemes continued i Executive Share Option Plan The Company operates tax approved and unapproved executive share option schemes open to Group employees in senior management positions.
Options granted by this Plan have a maximum term of 10 years.
The options vest after three years 1 based on the achievement of a target growth in earnings per share.
subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria If the performance criteria are not met when initially tested, in some instances they may be reassessed during the term of the option.
From 2005 executive share option grants have been replaced by awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan, as described in ii.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
ii Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP was introduced in 2005 on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to replace the annual award under the Executive Share Option Plan to Executive Directors and to certain senior employees.
Under the LTIP, a Performance Award to acquire a specified number of free shares may be made to the employee or Director.
In addition, a Matching Award may be made, as described in iii.
Performance conditions are attached to the vesting of Performance and Matching Awards based on both the achievement of target growth in earnings per share and the relative total shareholder return TSR of the Company against a comparator group of companies.
If the performance conditions are met, Performance and Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date.
There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.
In 2011 an HMRC approved share option plan was added as an appendix to the LTIP Approved Plan.
A participant can only hold an option under the Approved Plan over shares with a market value of up to 30,000 at the grant date.
Options under the Approved Plan are granted in tandem with the usual options under the LTIP.
The options are structured such that on exercise, the proportion of the gain in respect of the first 30,000 worth of shares as measured at the date of grant will be delivered under the Approved Option and the LTIP option shall be scaled back to deliver the remaining gross gain that would have been delivered had the option been granted alone.
The excess shares under the LTIP will be forfeited such that both awards will never become fully vested.
iii Share Matching Plan the Plan The Share Matching Plan was introduced in 2005 as part of the new Long Term Incentive Plan arrangements described in ii.
Under the Plan, a Matching Award to acquire a specified number of shares for free may be made if the employee pledges a number of shares as investment shares which are then matched by the Company on up to a 2:1 basis with the number of shares that could have been purchased with the pre-tax equivalent of the amount invested.
The Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date.
iv Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan The Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan is a discretionary scheme which forms part of the bonus arrangements for certain senior employees.
Under the scheme, part of any bonus may be received in cash whilst the remainder is used to make an award of nil cost options which vest three years after the award date.
The options must be exercised within six months of vesting.
v West Midlands Travel Ltd WMT Long Service Option Scheme The WMT Long Service Option Scheme utilises a fixed amount of shares set aside for this purpose following the acquisition of WMT in 1995 and is open to all WMT employees who have been in service for more than 25 years.
The options are exercisable between three and ten years following the grant date.
vi TWM Share Incentive Plan the SIP The TWM SIP exists for the benefit of WMT employees.
At the end of the year, 908 2010: 908 National Express Group PLC shares were held for the benefit of the Trustee.
Dividends on shares held in the SIP forfeited shares account are waived.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 97 7 Employee benefit costs continued b Share schemes continued vii Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave Scheme The National Express Group approved Sharesave Scheme enabled eligible UK employees, including Executive Directors, to acquire shares in the Company through monthly savings over a three-year period, at the end of which they also received a tax free bonus.
The savings and bonus could be used to purchase shares at a discounted option price set at the beginning of the savings contract.
The options matured three years after the grant date and could be exercised for a period of up to six months after this date.
1 Performance criteria for Executive Share Option Plan: a Options granted under the 2002 National Express Group Executive Share Option Plan Part 2 Unapproved.
b For options granted in 2002 and 2003, the performance condition is as follows: a for awards up to 50% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 4% pa, b for awards between 51% of salary and up to 100% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 6% pa, c for awards between 101% of salary and up to 150% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 8% pa, d for awards between 151% of salary and up to 200% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 10% pa. Parts a and b are initially tested over years 0-3 with a facility to retest over years 0-4 and 0-5.
Parts c and d are not subject to retesting.
Straight-line vesting occurs between EPS levels.
c For options granted in 2004, the performance condition is as follows: a for awards up to 50% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 4% pa, b for awards between 51% of salary and up to 100% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 5% pa, c for awards between 101% of salary and up to 150% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 6% pa, d for awards between 151% of salary and up to 200% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 10% pa.
Performance is tested over years 0-3.
viii Executive Deferred Bonus Plan As detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report, the Committee considered it appropriate for bonuses awarded in respect of the calendar year to be deferred for a period of one year and that these would vest, subject to the terms of the award and the relevant Directors continuing employment.
The deferred forfeitable ordinary shares are awarded under the terms of The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan which was adopted by the Board of the Company on 10 March 2009.
The principal terms of awards under the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan are summarised below: awards under the Plan may be cash awards, conditional awards or forfeitable shares awards: awards normally vest one year from the date of grant, subject to the relevant Directors continued employment with the Company: the Committee may decide that participants shall be entitled to receive a benefit determined by reference to the value of the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the grant date and the date of vesting: and the awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment save in certain compassionate good leaver circumstances eg death or disability.
In the event of a variation of the share capital of the Company, the Committee may make such adjustments to the awards as it considers appropriate.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 98 continued 8 Share-based payment The charge in respect of share-based payment transactions included in the Groups income statement for the year is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Expense arising from share and share option plans continuing operations 5.0 3.9 There were no exceptional costs included within the charge during the year 2010: 0.9m.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group had eight share-based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7 b.
For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average exercise prices.
The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average exercise Number Number exercise of share price of share price options p options p Options without a nil exercise price: At 1 January 1,460,728 442 1,900,806 449 Granted during the year 14,140 242 17,820 116 Forfeited during the year 133,551 410 424,406 472 Exercised during the year 2,735 143 2,330 129 Expired during the year 61,576 434 31,162 345 1 Outstanding at 31 December 1,277,006 445 1,460,728 442 Exercisable at 31 December 247,755 241 359,568 405 Options with a nil exercise price: At 1 January 6,116,309 nil 5,700,517 nil Granted during the year 4,143,972 nil 3,272,571 nil Forfeited during the year 1,245,344 nil 1,083,685 nil Exercised during the year 1,172,720 nil 1,299,223 nil Expired during the year 557,067 nil 473,871 nil Outstanding at 31 December 7,285,150 nil 6,116,309 nil Exercisable at 31 December 444,461 10,357 Total outstanding at 31 December 8,562,156 7,577,037 Total exercisable at 31 December 692,216 369,925 1 Included within this balance are options over 21,342 2010: 92,209 shares for which no expense has been recognised in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 as the options were granted before 7 November 2002.
Although there has been subsequent modification to the options, no IFRS 2 charge has been recognised as the amounts are not material.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 had exercise prices that were between 129p and 604p 2010: between 117p and 604p excluding options with a nil exercise price.
Options were exercised regularly throughout the year and the weighted average share price at exercise was 241p 2010: 229p.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 99 8 Share-based payment continued The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following assumptions and inputs: Share options without nil exercise price Share options with nil exercise price 2011 2010 2011 2010 Risk free interest rate 2.70% 1.8%-3.0% 1.30%-1.44% 1.8%-3.0% Expected volatility 36.4% 37.6% 51.5%-51.6% 52.7% Peer group volatility 55.1%-57.0% 49.6%-50.8% Expected option life in years 8 years 8 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 3.60% 0% 3.47%-3.64% 0% Weighted average share price at grant date 242p 226p 242p 229p Weighted average exercise price at grant date 242p 225p nil nil Weighted average fair value of options at grant date 56p 76p 153p 202p Experience to date has shown that approximately 24% 2010: 15% of options are exercised early, principally due to leavers.
This has been incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price.
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historical volatility over the last eight years, adjusted for one-off events that were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward.
The expected dividend yield represents the dividends declared in the 12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the date of the grant.
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP, the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the options above.
9 Net finance costs Normalised Exceptional Total Normalised Exceptional Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Bond and bank interest payable 46.2 46.2 43.7 2.0 45.7 Finance lease interest payable 5.0 5.0 3.8 3.8 Other interest payable 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Unwind of provision discounting 1.7 1.7 1.1 1.1 Finance costs 53.1 53.1 48.8 2.0 50.8 Other financial income 6.7 6.7 4.8 4.8 Net finance costs 46.4 46.4 44.0 2.0 46.0 Of which, from financial instruments: Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.4 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 40.2 40.2 38.8 38.8 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 0.2 0.2 Derivatives used for hedging 3.8 3.8 0.5 0.5 Loan fee amortisation 2.2 2.2 2.5 2.0 4.5 The 2010 exceptional charge of 2.0m relates to residual unamortised loan fees as a result of refinancing the Groups syndicated credit facility.
On 12 July 2010, the Groups 800m multi-currency syndicated credit facility maturity June 2011, was replaced with a new four year 500m facility.
The remaining unamortised fees relating to the 800m facility were taken to the income statement as an exceptional cost.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 100 continued 10 Taxation a Analysis of taxation charge credit in the year 2011 2010 m m Current taxation: UK corporation tax 13.2 4.4 Overseas taxation 7.9 3.6 Current income tax charge 21.1 8.0 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK and overseas 1.1 36.2 Total current income tax charge credit 20.0 28.2 Deferred taxation note 27 : Origination and reversal of temporary differences continuing operations 6.8 5.4 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK and overseas 11.0 Deferred tax charge 6.8 5.6 Total tax charge credit 26.8 22.6 The tax charge credit in the income statement is disclosed as follows: Income tax charge credit on continuing operations 26.8 22.5 Income tax credit on discontinued operations 0.1 26.8 22.6 The tax charge credit on continuing operations is disclosed as follows: Tax charge on profit before intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 41.5 39.2 Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 14.7 61.7 26.8 22.5 Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items is analysed as follows: UK tax settlement note 10h 32.1 Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation 14.7 17.1 Tax credit on exceptional item 12.5 14.7 61.7 b Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity 2011 2010 m m Current taxation: Credit debit on exchange movements offset in reserves 7.0 6.0 7.0 6.0 Deferred taxation: Deferred tax credit on share-based payment 0.1 0.3 Deferred tax credit debit on actuarial losses gains 0.4 9.8 Deferred tax charge on cash flow hedges 0.6 6.6 Deferred tax charge on exchange 4.1 4.2 16.1 Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 101 10 Taxation continued c Reconciliation of the total tax charge credit 2011 2010 m m Profit from continuing operations before income tax 129.4 40.2 Loss from discontinued operations before income tax 0.5 Accounting profit before income tax 129.4 39.7 Notional charge at UK corporation tax rate of 26.5% 2010: 28.0% 34.3 11.1 Non-deductible goodwill impairment and intangible amortisation 0.5 0.1 UK tax settlement note 10h 32.1 Utilisation of unrecognised tax losses 1.2 0.1 Effect of reduction in UK tax rates note 10g 0.4 0.1 Prior year adjustments within current and deferred tax 1.1 8.7 Spanish reinvestment relief and other tax credits 0.9 5.1 Effect of overseas tax rates 5.7 1.7 Tax on Spanish goodwill and intangibles 6.2 6.0 Overseas financing deductions 5.8 6.4 Non-deductible expenditure 1.9 5.4 Total tax charge credit reported in the income statement note 10a 26.8 22.6 d Temporary differences associated with Group investments No deferred tax 2010: nil is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as the Group has determined that these undistributed profits will not be distributed in the near future.
As a result of changes to tax legislation in 2009, overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 are generally exempt from UK corporation tax, but may be subject to withholding tax.
There are no temporary differences 2010: nil associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised but for which a tax liability may arise.
e Unrecognised tax losses Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit against future taxable profits is probable.
UK and overseas deferred tax assets that the Group has not recognised in the accounts amount to 40.3m 2010: 37.0m, which arise in tax jurisdictions where the Group does not expect to generate sufficient suitable future profits.
In addition, there are capital losses of 7.1m 2010: 7.5m which have not been recognised, recoverability of which is dependent on capital gains arising.
f Deferred tax included in the income statement 2011 2010 m m Accelerated capital allowances 6.8 9.2 Other short-term temporary differences 3.6 13.1 Utilisation of losses 3.6 27.9 6.8 5.6 Details on the balance sheet position of deferred tax are included in note 27. g Factors that may affect future tax charges In the June 2010 Budget Statement, it was announced that the main rate of UK corporation tax would reduce from 28% to 27% on 1 April 2011.
The legislation was enacted in July 2010.
On March 2011, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a further 1% reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 26% effective from 1 April 2011, along with subsequent reductions of 1% each year to a final rate of 23% from 1 April 2014.
At the balance sheet date, a rate of 25% 2010: 27% was substantively enacted.
The change in rate from 27% to 25% has resulted in a tax credit of 0.4m to the income statement.
The proposed changes to reduce the UK corporation tax rate from 25% to 23% on 1 April 2014 will have a similar effect in future years.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 102 continued 10 Taxation continued h UK tax settlement During 2011, there have been no exceptional tax charges or credits.
During 2010, the Group entered into discussions with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to settle a number of UK corporation tax issues.
Negotiations were concluded and the Group agreed to a liability of 16.8m, including interest, to be paid in instalments.
This resulted in an exceptional tax release of 32.1m.
11 Discontinued operations In 2011 there were no material movements arising from discontinued operations.
The 2010 cash flows from discontinued operations include an outflow of 1.8m in relation to North America Public Transit disposed in 2005, an outflow of 1.6m in relation to Dot2Dot disposed in 2009 and an outflow of 0.1m in relation to the Groups Australian operations discontinued in 2009.
In 2010 a 0.3m loss from discontinued operations was recognised in relation to Dot2Dot and a 0.1m loss in relation to the Australian operations.
12 Dividends paid and proposed 2011 2010 m m Declared and paid during the year Ordinary final dividend for 2010 paid of 6.00p per share 30.5 Ordinary interim dividend for 2011 of 3.00p per share 15.3 45.8 Proposed for approval not recognised as a liability at 31 December Ordinary final dividend for 2011 6.5p per share 2010: 6.0p per share 33.3 30.6 13 Earnings per share 2011 2010 Basic earnings per share continuing operations 19.9p 12.1p Basic loss per share discontinued operations 0.1p Basic earnings per share total 19.9p 12.0p Normalised basic earnings per share 27.0p 23.6p Diluted earnings per share continuing operations 19.8p 12.1p Diluted loss per share discontinued operations 0.1p Diluted earnings per share total 19.8p 12.0p Normalised diluted earnings per share 26.9p 23.5p Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity shareholders of 101.2m 2010: 61.4m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by employee share ownership trusts and those held as treasury shares which are both treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The reconciliation of basic and diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares is as follows: 2011 2010 Basic weighted average shares 509,388,824 509,398,911 Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 1,556,324 2,546,167 Diluted weighted average shares 510,945,148 511,945,078 The normalised basic and normalised diluted earnings per share have been calculated in addition to the basic and diluted earnings per share required by IAS 33 since, in the opinion of the Directors, they reflect the underlying performance of the business operations more appropriately.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 103 13 Earnings per share continued The reconciliation of the earnings and earnings per share to their normalised equivalent is as follows: 2011 2010 Basic EPS Diluted EPS Basic EPS Diluted EPS m p p m p p Profit attributable to equity shareholders 101.2 19.9 19.8 61.4 12.0 12.0 Loss from discontinued operations 0.4 0.1 0.1 Profit from continuing operations Attributable to equity shareholders 101.2 19.9 19.8 61.8 12.1 12.1 Intangible asset amortisation 50.8 10.0 10.0 57.1 11.2 11.1 Exceptional items 61.2 12.0 12.0 Exceptional finance costs 2.0 0.4 0.4 Tax relief on goodwill and exceptional items including exceptional tax 14.7 2.9 2.9 61.7 12.1 12.1 Normalised profit from continuing operations and attributable to equity shareholders 137.3 27.0 26.9 120.4 23.6 23.5 14 Intangible assets Customer Rail Finite Contractual Indefinite contracts franchise Software life assets relationships Goodwill life assets Total m m m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2011 426.3 9.9 22.0 458.2 57.8 1,104.4 1,162.2 1,620.4 Additions 2.6 1.3 3.9 0.4 0.4 4.3 Foreign exchange 11.0 0.3 11.3 0.8 21.9 22.7 34.0 At 31 December 2011 417.9 9.9 23.0 450.8 57.0 1,082.9 1,139.9 1,590.7 Amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2011 233.4 8.0 9.3 250.7 85.5 85.5 336.2 Charge for year 46.6 1.7 2.5 50.8 50.8 Foreign exchange 7.7 7.7 1.1 1.1 8.8 At 31 December 2011 272.3 9.7 11.8 293.8 84.4 84.4 378.2 Net book value: At 31 December 2011 145.6 0.2 11.2 157.0 57.0 998.5 1,055.5 1,212.5 At 1 January 2011 192.9 1.9 12.7 207.5 57.8 1,018.9 1,076.7 1,284.2 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 104 continued 14 Intangible assets continued Customer Finite Contractual Indefinite contracts Rail franchise Software life assets relationships Goodwill life assets Total m m m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2010 434.0 9.9 18.6 462.5 55.8 1,116.4 1,172.2 1,634.7 Disposals 4.7 4.7 0.9 0.9 5.6 Additions internally generated 2.0 2.0 2.0 Foreign exchange 12.4 1.4 11.0 2.0 12.9 10.9 21.9 At 31 December 2010 426.3 9.9 22.0 458.2 57.8 1,104.4 1,162.2 1,620.4 Amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2010 191.0 5.7 1.3 198.0 86.8 86.8 284.8 Charge for year 47.0 2.4 7.7 57.1 57.1 Foreign exchange 4.6 0.1 0.3 4.4 1.3 1.3 5.7 At 31 December 2010 233.4 8.0 9.3 250.7 85.5 85.5 336.2 Net book value: At 31 December 2010 192.9 1.9 12.7 207.5 57.8 1,018.9 1,076.7 1,284.2 At 1 January 2010 243.0 4.2 17.3 264.5 55.8 1,029.6 1,085.4 1,349.9 Indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill have been allocated to individual cash-generating units for annual impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value of indefinite life intangible assets by cash-generating unit is as follows: 2011 2010 Contractual 2011 Contractual 2010 relationships Goodwill Total relationships Goodwill Total m m m m m m UK Coach 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 North American Bus 39.7 276.1 315.8 40.0 276.4 316.4 European Coach & Bus 17.3 709.2 726.5 17.8 729.3 747.1 57.0 998.5 1,055.5 57.8 1,018.9 1,076.7 The useful economic lives of contractual relationships in North American Bus and European Coach & Bus are deemed to be indefinite where historical experience has shown that these contracts are consistently renewed.
The customer contract and rail franchise intangible assets are amortised over the finite duration of the contract or franchise as appropriate.
All amortisation charges in the year have been charged to operating costs.
The recoverable amount of indefinite life intangible assets has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a five year period.
Key assumptions, including growth rates and operating margins, are based on historical experience, detailed budget plans as well as managements assessment of current market and economic conditions.
Growth has then been extrapolated forward from the end of the forecasts.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 105 14 Intangible assets continued The assumptions used for the cash-generating units, are as follows: Growth rate used to Pre tax discount extrapolate cash flows rate applied to beyond five year period of cash flow projections management plan 2011 2010 2011 2010 UK Coach 9.8% 9.9% 2.0% 2.0% North American Bus 11.3% 11.1% 2.0% 2.0% European Coach & Bus 9.0% 8.4% 2.0% 2.0% The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the assumptions over operating profit margin, discount rates and revenue growth rates.
The value in use of the North American Bus division exceeds its carrying amount by 31.5m 2010: 32.4m.
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying amount following a reduction in operating profit margin of 50 basis points 2010: 50 basis points, an increase in the discount rate of 30 basis points 2010: 30 basis points or a reduction in revenue growth rates of 100 basis points 2010: 110 basis points.
The continued non-impairment of North America is dependent upon continuing to deliver the margin recovery in future years.
The value in use of the European Coach & Bus division exceeds its carrying amount by 176.8m 2010: 252.3m.
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying amount following a reduction in operating profit margin of 260 basis points 2010: 380 basis points, an increase in the discount rate of 90 basis points 2010: 130 basis points or a reduction in revenue growth rates of 410 basis points 2010: 620 basis points.
The decrease in headroom and increased sensitivity reflects the Spanish macro-economic risks, which have been incorporated into the future cash flow assumptions see Principal risk and uncertainties section for further details regarding how Group management recognises, prioritises and puts in place measures to mitigate these risks.
It is believed that any reasonably possible movement on assumptions will not lead to an impairment of goodwill allocated to UK Coach.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each cash-generating unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
15 Property, plant and equipment Plant and Long leasehold equipment, Freehold land property Public service fixtures and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings Total m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2011 95.2 3.7 906.8 165.7 1,171.4 Additions 1.9 0.5 139.7 14.7 156.8 Acquisitions of businesses 1.5 1.5 Disposals 15.2 5.4 20.6 Foreign exchange 2.0 7.3 1.4 10.7 At 31 December 2011 95.1 4.2 1,025.5 173.6 1,298.4 Depreciation: At 1 January 2011 11.2 1.6 327.9 116.6 457.3 Charge for the year 1.9 0.5 86.7 16.4 105.5 Disposals 10.7 4.7 15.4 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 2.6 0.7 3.5 At 31 December 2011 13.0 2.0 401.3 127.6 543.9 Net book value: At 31 December 2011 82.1 2.2 624.2 46.0 754.5 At 1 January 2011 84.0 2.1 578.9 49.1 714.1 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 106 continued 15 Property, plant and equipment continued Plant and Long leasehold equipment, Freehold land property Public service fixtures and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings Total m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2010 95.5 4.4 816.9 158.6 1,075.4 Additions 3.2 0.6 131.8 15.2 150.8 Acquisitions of businesses 2.4 2.4 Disposals 1.4 1.5 56.4 8.6 67.9 Foreign exchange 2.1 0.2 12.1 0.5 10.7 At 31 December 2010 95.2 3.7 906.8 165.7 1,171.4 Depreciation: At 1 January 2010 11.0 2.5 286.6 102.7 402.8 Charge for the year 1.8 0.5 79.5 18.0 99.8 Disposals 1.6 1.5 45.6 4.2 52.9 Foreign exchange 0.1 7.4 0.1 7.6 At 31 December 2010 11.2 1.6 327.9 116.6 457.3 Net book value: At 31 December 2010 84.0 2.1 578.9 49.1 714.1 At 1 January 2010 84.5 1.9 530.3 55.9 672.6 Property, plant and equipment held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows: 2011 2010 m m Land and buildings cost 1.4 1.5 depreciation 0.1 0.1 Net land and buildings 1.3 1.4 Public service vehicles cost 245.6 215.1 depreciation 61.5 54.0 Net public service vehicles 184.1 161.1 Plant and equipment cost 0.9 1.3 depreciation 0.8 1.2 Net plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 Total net book value 185.5 162.6 Finance leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 107 16 Subsidiaries The companies listed below include all those which principally affect the result and net assets of the Group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next Annual Return to Companies House.
The principal country of operation in respect of the companies below is the country in which they are incorporated.
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiaries, of the companies.
The Groups train passenger services in the UK are operated through franchises awarded by DfT Rail, as delegated by the UK Government.
Incorporated in England and Wales National Express Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services in Great Britain Eurolines UK Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services to Europe Airlinks Airport Services Limited Operation of coach services National Express Rail Replacement Limited Operation of coach services The Kings Ferry Limited Operation of coach services West Midlands Travel Limited Operation of bus services c2c Rail Limited Operation of train passenger services London Eastern Railway Limited trading as National Express East Anglia Operation of train passenger services ceased operating on 4 February 2012 Incorporated in Scotland Tayside Public Transport Co Limited trading as Travel Dundee Operation of bus services Incorporated in the USA Durham School Services LP Operation of school bus services Incorporated in Canada Stock Transportation Limited Operation of school bus services Incorporated in Spain NEX Continental Holdings SL Holding company for operating companies Tury Express SA Holding company for operating companies General Tecnica Industrial SLU Holding company for operating companies The main holding companies of the ALSA Group.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 108 continued 17 Derivative financial assets and available for sale investments 2011 2010 m m Available for sale investments Unlisted ordinary shares 7.6 7.8 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate derivatives 23.7 Derivative financial instruments Fuel derivatives 7.3 7.2 Derivative financial instruments included in non-current assets 31.0 7.2 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate derivatives 3.8 Derivative financial instruments Fuel derivatives 13.1 14.1 Derivative financial instruments Foreign exchange derivatives 8.0 0.4 Derivative financial instruments included in current assets 21.1 18.3 Further information on the Groups use of fuel, interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives is included in note 31.
Available for sale investments 2011 2010 m m Cost or valuation and net book value: At 1 January 7.8 7.7 Additions 0.3 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 7.6 7.8 The principal available for sale investments are as follows: 2011 2010 Proportion Proportion held held Name Country of registration Class of share % % Bosnjak Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary shares 86 86 Prepayment Cards Limited PCL England and Wales Ordinary shares 23.5 Metros Ligeros fide Madrid, S. A. MLM Spain Ordinary shares 15 15 Various investments within ALSA and Continental Auto Spain Ordinary shares 1-16 1-16 Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 109 18 Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments accounted for using the equity method are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Joint ventures 2.0 2.0 Associates 4.6 4.6 Total investments accounted for under the equity method 6.6 6.6 The Groups share of post tax results from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Share of joint ventures profit 0.1 0.1 Share of associates profit 1.3 0.2 Total share of results from associates and joint ventures 1.4 0.3 a Investments in joint ventures The Groups interests in joint ventures are as follows: Proportion held Name Country of registration Activity % Ibero-Eurosur S. L. Spain Holding company of Deutsche Touring 20 The financial information of this joint venture is summarised below: Ibero 2011 2010 Share of joint ventures balance sheet and results m m Non-current assets 3.5 3.7 Current assets 0.1 Share of gross assets 3.5 3.8 Non-current liabilities 1.2 1.5 Current liabilities 0.3 0.3 Share of gross liabilities 1.5 1.8 Share of net assets 2.0 2.0 Revenue 0.1 0.1 Share of profit 0.1 0.1 The carrying amount of the investment in joint ventures matches the Groups share of the net assets.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 110 continued 18 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued b Investments in associates The Groups interests in associates are as follows: Proportion held Name Country of registration % Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited England and Wales 40 European Coach & Bus associates Spain 20-50 Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited ICRRL was contracted to manage the operations of Eurostar UK until 2010.
In 2006 and 2009, onerous contract provisions were recognised in relation to the Groups obligation to fund the losses of ICRRL.
As a result, the Group ceased to recognise the share of results of ICRRL.
European Coach & Buss associates are generally involved in the operation of coach and bus services, management of bus stations and similar operations.
The aggregate amounts related to associates are summarised below: 2011 2010 Share of associates balance sheets and results m m Non-current assets 4.7 5.1 Current assets 5.9 6.1 Share of gross assets 10.6 11.2 Non-current liabilities 2.4 2.4 Current liabilities 3.6 4.2 Share of gross liabilities 6.0 6.6 Share of net assets 4.6 4.6 Total revenue 15.6 15.5 Share of profit 1.3 0.2 Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 111 19 Business combinations a Acquisitions 2011 Acquisitions During the year the Group paid 0.4m to acquire a controlling interest in Dainco S. A. a company that operates coach services in Spain.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition was 0.4m.
Included in the acquired balance sheet was 1.0m of bank borrowings.
2010 Acquisitions On 31 December 2010, in the United States, the Group acquired the entire share capital of school bus operator Vogel Vogel Bus Company Inc.
Details of the acquisition are disclosed in the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
In 2011, 6.6m of deferred consideration was paid in relation to the acquisition.
b Disposals There were no business disposals in the Group in 2011 or 2010.
During 2011, 0.9m of deferred consideration was received in relation to the Groups Portuguese transport business that was disposed of in 2008.
20 Non-current assets other receivables 2011 2010 m m Trade receivables 4.7 4.7 Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 Other receivables 1.2 1.2 5.9 6.0 21 Inventories 2011 2010 m m Raw materials and consumables 18.8 17.6 The movement on the provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is immaterial.
22 Current assets trade and other receivables 2011 2010 m m Trade receivables 155.8 150.3 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 10.2 14.3 Trade receivables net 145.6 136.0 Amounts due from associates and joint ventures note 36 1.0 0.8 Amounts owed by other related parties note 36 1.0 1.3 Other receivables 47.2 30.5 Prepayments and accrued income 53.3 58.2 248.1 226.8 An analysis of the provision for impairment of receivables is provided below: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 14.3 12.1 Utilised provided in the year 4.1 2.2 At 31 December 10.2 14.3 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 112 continued 23 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 64.8 81.5 Overnight deposits 25.0 36.8 Other short-term deposits 2.7 10.5 Cash and cash equivalents 92.5 128.8 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted balances of 14.0m 2010: 21.7m held by the UK Rail subsidiaries TOCs.
Under the terms of the train franchise agreements, cash can only be distributed by the TOCs either up to the value of retained profits or the amount determined by prescribed liquidity ratios.
The restricted cash represents the balance that is either not available for distribution or the amount required to satisfy the liquidity ratio at the balance sheet date.
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the agreed short-term floating deposit rate.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value.
24 Current liabilities trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m Trade payables 168.6 175.3 Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures note 36 1.0 1.1 Amounts owed to other related parties note 36 0.7 0.7 Other tax and social security payable 17.2 36.0 Accruals and deferred income 182.8 171.1 Other payables 96.1 86.4 466.4 470.6 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of two months.
Included within other payables are deferred fixed asset grants from government or other public bodies of 2.6m 2010: 2.3m.
Accrued interest on bonds of 30.4m was presented in other payables in the 2010 financial accounts.
In 2011, this has been included within bonds accrued interest, shown in note 28.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 113 25 Other non-current liabilities 2011 2010 m m Deferred fixed asset grants 3.7 3.7 Other liabilities 1.2 21.5 4.9 25.2 26 Provisions Eurostar onerous Insurance contract 1 2 3 claims provision Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2011 45.8 18.2 15.6 79.6 Charged released to the income statement 20.6 0.2 4.8 25.2 Utilised in the year 24.0 9.0 8.7 41.7 Amortisation of discount 1.7 1.7 Exchange difference 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 44.2 9.0 11.7 64.9 Current 31 December 2011 21.4 9.0 10.5 40.9 Non-current 31 December 2011 22.8 1.2 24.0 44.2 9.0 11.7 64.9 Current 31 December 2010 26.1 9.0 8.8 43.9 Non-current 31 December 2010 19.7 9.2 6.8 35.7 45.8 18.2 15.6 79.6 1 The insurance claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end, the majority of which will be utilised in the next five years, and comprises provisions for existing claims arising in the UK and North America.
2 A provision was recognised in 2006 for the Groups onerous contract for Eurostar with ICRRL.
9.0m 2010: 8.7m was paid to ICRRL during the year.
The remainder has been settled in 2012.
3 Other includes amounts provided for onerous property contracts, liabilities for future franchise exits within the UK Rail division, costs arising from restructuring activities and 4.6m of expected liabilities for a working time claim in North America.
These amounts are expected to be settled during 2012.
Other non-current amounts are expected to be settled in 2013.
When the effect is material, the provisions are discounted to their net present value.
27 Deferred tax 2011 2010 m m Net deferred tax liability at 1 January 84.1 63.8 Debit to income statement 6.8 5.6 Charge to other comprehensive income or equity 4.2 16.1 Exchange differences 1.4 1.4 Transfers from Corporation Tax 1.5 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 95.2 84.1 Based on current capital investment plans, the Group expects to be able to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation in future years at a similar level to the current year.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same jurisdiction have been offset.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 114 continued 27 Deferred tax continued 2011 2010 Deferred tax assets m m Accelerated tax depreciation 1.0 Losses carried forward 1.2 Other short-term temporary differences 2.6 Total 2.8 2011 2010 Deferred tax liabilities m m Accelerated tax depreciation 151.7 94.4 Losses carried forward 30.1 37.3 Other short-term temporary differences 26.4 29.8 Total 95.2 86.9 28 Borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 2011 2010 m m Non-current Bank loans 5.5 3.6 Bonds 583.4 565.6 Finance lease obligations 129.2 103.8 Other debt payable 0.3 1.4 Non-current borrowings 718.4 674.4 Fuel derivatives 2.4 Interest rate derivatives 5.1 Non-current derivative financial instruments 2.4 5.1 Non-current borrowing and derivative financial liabilities 720.8 679.5 Current Bank loans 2.4 36.2 Bonds accrued interest 29.9 30.4 Finance lease obligations 22.1 27.8 Other debt payable 0.4 0.4 Current borrowings 54.8 94.8 Fuel derivatives 2.0 Foreign exchange derivatives 0.2 10.4 Current derivative financial instruments 0.2 12.4 Current borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 55.0 107.2 An analysis of interest-bearing loans and borrowings is provided in note 29.
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note 31.
Accrued interest of 30.4m was presented in other payables in the 2010 financial accounts.
In 2011, this has been included within bonds accrued interest.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 115 29 Interest-bearing borrowings The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows: 2011 Effective 2010 Effective m Maturity interest rate m Maturity interest rate 7 year Sterling bond 351.6 January 2017 6.54% 345.0 January 2017 6.54% 10 year Sterling bond 231.8 June 2020 6.85% 220.6 June 2020 6.85% Bonds 583.4 565.6 Bonds accrued interest 29.9 30.4 1 1 Sterling bank loans August 2014 LIBOR 1.25% 35.3 August 2014 LIBOR 1.45% European bank loans 6.3 2012-2016 4.95% 3.0 2011-2015 3.00% European bank loans 1.6 2012-2016 4.74% 1.5 2011-2015 2.64% Bank loans 7.9 39.8 US dollar finance leases at fixed rate 117.3 2012-2018 2.67% 90.9 2011-2017 3.70% European finance leases at fixed rate 8.1 2012-2017 6.09% 8.4 2011-2015 6.5% European finance leases at floating rate 5.8 2012-2017 EURIBOR 1.07% 8.8 2011-2016 EURIBOR 0.62% Sterling finance leases at fixed rate 20.1 2012-2018 4.76% 23.5 2011-2018 4.76% Finance leases 151.3 131.6 Euro loans 0.7 2012-2014 1.8 2011-2016 Other debt payable 0.7 1.8 Total 773.2 769.2 1 This date is the ultimate maturity date of the syndicated credit facility.
During 2010, two new Sterling bonds with nominal values of 350m and 225m were issued under the 1bn EMTN.
Following the issuance of the 350m bond in January 2010 the Group repaid its 270m Euro bank loan.
The Group used the proceeds of the 225m bond to repay a portion of its 800m syndicated credit facility maturity 5 June 2011.
This facility was subsequently refinanced on 21 July 2010 and replaced with a 500m syndicated credit facility maturity 31 August 2014.
Under the terms of the 1bn EMTN programme, there is a change in control put option such that, upon a change of control event, any holder of any MTN may require the Company to redeem or purchase that MTN.
Details of the Groups interest rate risk management strategy and associated interest rate derivatives are included in notes 30 and 31.
The Group is subject to a number of financial covenants in relation to its syndicated credit facilities which, if contravened, could result in its borrowings under the facility becoming immediately repayable.
These covenants specify maximum net debt to EBITDA and minimum EBITDA to net interest payable.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 116 continued 29 Interest-bearing borrowings continued The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Groups interest bearing borrowings.
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2011 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans 1.5 1.4 1.5 1.3 0.6 6.3 Bonds 613.3 613.3 Finance leases 20.3 21.8 34.8 14.9 12.7 41.0 145.5 Other debt payable 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.7 Floating rate Cash assets 92.5 92.5 Bank loans 0.9 0.3 0.3 0.1 1.6 Finance leases 1.8 1.2 1.0 1.1 0.5 0.2 5.8 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2010 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bonds 596.0 596.0 Finance leases 22.9 13.8 15.6 23.8 12.7 34.0 122.8 Other debt payable 0.4 1.2 0.2 1.8 Floating rate Cash assets 128.8 128.8 Bank loans 36.1 0.8 1.6 0.7 0.6 39.8 Finance leases 4.9 1.4 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.2 8.8 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors and management The Groups multinational operations and debt levels expose it to a variety of financial risks, of which the most material are market risks relating to fuel prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and the availability of funding at reasonable margins.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to manage the impact of these risks on the financial performance of the Group by using financial instruments including borrowings, committed facilities and forward foreign exchange, fuel and interest rate derivatives.
The Board of Directors has delegated the responsibility for implementing the financial risk management policies laid down by the Board to the Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.
The policies are implemented by the Group Treasury department with regular reporting to the Group Finance Director on its activities.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 117 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Foreign currency The Group has major foreign operations in the US, Canada and Spain and as a result is exposed to the movements in foreign currency exchange rates on the translation of these foreign currency denominated net assets and earnings.
These movements can have a significant impact on the Groups reported results.
The Group seeks to manage this foreign currency exchange movements risk by aligning its foreign currency denominated liabilities with the EBIT generated in each currency, such that some protection is afforded to the net debt: EBITDA covenant within the Groups core borrowing facility.
This is achieved by a combination of foreign currency borrowings and finance leases, and entering into derivative financial instruments such as cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange swaps.
At the year end, the Group had outstanding foreign exchange derivatives of 250.0m and US$195.0m: swaps of US$49.0m, 6.0m, C$7.0m and finance leases of US$182.3m and 16.6m.
Derivative financial instruments are designated as net investment hedges of foreign currency assets.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income and recycled to the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged net assets affect the income statement.
Any ineffectiveness is taken to the income statement.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
This would affect the Groups profit before tax and translation reserve.
The effect on the translation reserve represents the movement in the translated value of the foreign currency denominated loans and change in fair value of cross-currency swap contracts.
These movements would be offset by an opposite movement in the translated value of the Groups overseas net investments.
It is estimated that a 10% change in the corresponding exchange rates would result in an exchange gain or loss in the translation reserve of 17.2m.
2011 2010 Effect Effect on Effect Effect on Strengthening on profit translation on profit translation weakening before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December in currency m m m m US dollar 10% 1.5 15.5 Euro 10% 19.6 21.7 Canadian dollar 10% 0.9 0.1 US dollar 10% 1.5 15.5 Euro 10% 19.6 21.7 Canadian dollar 10% 0.9 0.1 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on both interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
It is the Groups policy to maintain an appropriate balance between fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings in order to provide a level of certainty to interest expense in the short term and to reduce the year on year impact of interest rate fluctuations over the medium term.
To achieve the desired fixed floating ratio, the Group has entered into a series of interest rate swaps that have the effect of converting fixed rate debt to floating rate debt.
The net effect of these transactions was that as at 31 December 2011 the proportion of Group net debt at floating rates was 16% 2010: 19%.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The sensitivity analysis covers all floating rate financial instruments, including the interest rate swaps.
If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in Sterling were increased by 100bps, it is estimated that the Groups profit before taxation would decrease by approximately 1.3m.
The Group does not hold significant floating rate instruments denominated in US$ or in Euro and it is therefore estimated that the Groups profit before tax would change by less than 0.1m should the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in US$ increase by 50bps, or should the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in Euro increase by 75bps.
The analysis assumes that the amount and mix of floating rate debt, including finance leases, remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2011.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 118 continued 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 2011 2010 Increase Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on decrease profit hedging profit hedging in basis before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December points m m m m Sterling 100 1.3 1.8 US dollar 50 0.1 Euro 75 0.2 Sterling 100 1.3 1.8 US dollar 50 0.1 Euro 75 0.2 Commodity prices The Group is exposed to movements in commodity prices as a result of its fuel usage.
It is the Groups policy to hedge this exposure in order to provide a level of certainty as to its cost in the short term and to reduce the year on year impact of price fluctuations over the medium term.
This is achieved by entering into fuel derivatives.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had hedged approximately 100% of its 2012 expected usage and 50% of its expected usage in 2013 see the Financial review for further details.
The table below demonstrates the effect of a reasonably possible variation in fuel prices, with all other variables held constant, on the fair value of the Groups financial instruments and accordingly on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The sensitivity analysis includes all fuel derivatives.
The effect on the hedging reserve arises through movements on the fair value of the Groups fuel derivatives.
For these derivative contracts the sensitivity of the net fair value to an immediate 20% increase or decrease in all prices would have been 37.1m at 31 December 2011.
The figure does not include any corresponding economic advantage or disadvantage that would arise from the natural business exposure which would be expected to offset the gain or loss on the derivatives.
2011 2010 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on Increase profit hedging profit hedging decrease before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December in price m m m m Sterling denominated ULSD 20% 11.6 13.5 US dollar denominated heating oil diesel 20% 12.1 11.6 Euro denominated ULSD 20% 13.4 12.2 Sterling denominated ULSD 20% 11.6 13.5 US dollar denominated heating oil diesel 20% 12.1 11.6 Euro denominated ULSD 20% 13.4 12.2 Credit risk The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group is the gross carrying value of each of its financial assets.
This risk is mitigated by a number of factors.
Many of the Groups principal customers, suppliers and financial institutions with which it conducts business are public or quasi-public bodies, both national DfT Rail and Network Rail in the UK and local school boards in North America, municipal authorities in Spain and Morocco, Transport for London and Centro in the UK.
The Group does not consider these counterparties to pose a significant credit risk.
Outside of this the Group does not consider it has significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The only elements of the Groups financial assets which are not impaired but are past due are certain trade receivable items.
An ageing of the assets which are past due is included in the table below.
In terms of trade receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as at the year-end reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations see Principal risks and uncertainties section for details of how management manages this process.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 119 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Of which: not impaired and past due in the following periods Of which: neither Between Between Carrying impaired Less than 30 and 60 61 and 90 amount nor past due 30 days days days Over 90 days m m m m m m Trade receivables at 31 December 2011 150.3 90.8 26.5 10.2 4.8 18.0 Trade receivables at 31 December 2010 140.7 104.7 12.8 4.4 4.0 14.8 Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity risk is managed centrally by the Group Treasury department with operating units forecasting their cash requirements.
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and medium-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure the Group has sufficient available funds to meet current and forecast funding requirements.
In managing the liquidity risk, the Group has access to a range of funding sources through the banking and capital markets.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had committed bank borrowing and finance lease facilities of 620.5m 2010: 631.6m.
The Group has a 500m committed unsecured revolving bank facility, maturing in August 2014, which was undrawn at 31 December 2011 2010: 460m.
Letters of credit issued to support insurance retentions were 30.8m 2010: 39.4m.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2011 based on the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest cash flows.
As such the amounts in this table will not agree to the carrying amounts disclosed in the Balance Sheet or other Notes.
The table includes cash flows associated with derivative hedging instruments.
Their amounts reflect the maturity profile of the fair value liability where the instrument will be settled net, and the gross settlement amount where the pay leg of a derivative will be settled separately to the receive leg.
Less than 1 On demand year 1-5 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2011 m m m m m Bank loans 2.4 5.5 7.9 Bonds 36.8 147.1 656.5 840.4 Finance lease obligations 31.2 92.9 45.0 169.1 Other debt payable 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.7 Trade and other payables 463.8 1.2 465.0 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 9.0 9.0 543.6 246.8 701.7 1,492.1 Foreign exchange derivatives 8.0 8.0 Interest rate derivatives 4.0 12.3 8.5 24.8 Fuel derivatives 16.5 5.7 22.2 28.5 18.0 8.5 55.0 Less than 1 On demand year 1-5 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2010 m m m m m Bank loans 1.6 47.7 49.3 Bonds 36.8 147.1 693.3 877.2 Finance lease obligations 28.3 83.1 38.5 149.9 Other debt payable 0.4 1.2 0.2 1.8 Interest rate derivatives 1.2 1.2 Fuel derivatives 3.7 6.4 10.1 Foreign exchange derivatives 10.4 10.4 Trade and other payables 390.7 21.5 412.2 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 9.0 9.2 18.2 480.9 316.2 733.2 1,530.3 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 120 continued 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Capital risk management The Group seeks to adopt efficient financing structures that enable it to use its balance sheet strength to achieve the Groups objectives without putting shareholder value at risk.
The Groups capital structure comprises its equity refer to the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and its net debt refer to note 37.
The increase in the Groups net debt from 610.4m to 633.7m excluding accrued interest is explained in the Financial review.
Information about the financial covenants in relation to the Groups borrowing facilities is included in note 29.
31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables Fair values The table below illustrates the fair values of all financial assets and liabilities held by the Group at 31 December 2011.
Loans and receivables are non derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and the carrying value in all cases approximates to the fair value.
Available for sale investments are non derivative assets that are either designated as available for sale, or are not classified as loans and receivables or held to maturity investments.
The Groups available for sale investments have no active market, and in the absence of any other reliable external information are carried at cost or amortised cost which approximates to the fair value.
The fair value of derivatives is either determined by the third-party financial institution with which the Group holds the instrument, in line with the market value of similar financial instruments or by use of valuation techniques using market data.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as fair value through profit or loss and are carried on the balance sheet at their fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge are carried on the balance sheet at their fair value.
For cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss or when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed.
For fair value hedges, all gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are the only instrument which the Group holds at fair value.
The fair value measurement of these instruments is categorised within the Level 2 ie the fair values are derived based on observable market inputs, in accordance with IFRS 7.
The Groups bonds are held at a hybrid amortised cost with a fair value adjustment.
After initial recognition at fair value, the bonds are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
A portion of the bonds are designated as the hedged item in an effective fair value hedging relationship.
As such the carrying value of this portion is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
This net carrying value will differ to the fair value depending on movements in the Groups credit risk, movements in interest rates on the un-hedged portion and unamortised fees.
All other liabilities including finance leases, banks loans, trade and other payables and other debt payable are held at amortised cost.
After initial fair value recognition, these instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of these liabilities approximates to the fair value.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 121 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Liabilities AvailableDerivatives measured at At fair value Loans and for-sale used for amortised through Classification of financial instruments receivables assets hedging cost profit or loss Total As at 31 December 2011 m m m m m m Assets Investments 7.6 7.6 Fuel derivatives 20.4 20.4 Foreign exchange derivatives 8.0 8.0 Interest rate derivatives 23.7 23.7 Cash and cash equivalents 92.5 92.5 Trade and other receivables 200.7 200.7 293.2 7.6 52.1 352.9 Liabilities Bank loans 7.9 7.9 Bonds including accrued interest 613.3 613.3 Finance lease obligations 151.3 151.3 Other debt payable 0.7 0.7 Fuel derivatives 2.4 2.4 Foreign exchange derivatives 0.2 0.2 Trade and other payables 465.0 465.0 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 9.0 9.0 2.6 1,247.2 1,249.8 AvailableDerivatives Liabilities At fair value Loans and for-sale used for measured at through Classification of financial instruments receivables assets hedging amortised cost profit or loss Total As at 31 December 2010 m m m m m m Assets Investments 7.8 7.8 Fuel derivatives 21.3 21.3 Foreign exchange derivatives 0.4 0.4 Interest rate derivatives 3.8 3.8 Cash and cash equivalents 128.8 128.8 Trade and other receivables 232.8 232.8 361.6 7.8 25.5 394.9 Liabilities Bank loans 39.8 39.8 Bonds including accrued interest 596.0 596.0 Finance lease obligations 131.6 131.6 Other debt payable 1.8 1.8 Interest rate derivatives 5.1 5.1 Fuel derivatives 2.0 2.0 Foreign exchange derivatives 10.4 10.4 Trade and other payables 526.2 526.2 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 18.2 18.2 17.5 1,313.6 1,331.1 Other receivables and other payables are to be settled in cash in the currency they are held in.
In accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for.
No embedded derivatives have been identified.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 122 continued 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued The Group assesses at each year-end reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
In the financial year 2011 there was no objective evidence that would have necessitated the impairment of loans and receivables or available-for-sale assets except the provision for impairment of receivables see note 22.
Hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposures to market risk, such as movements in foreign exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
In line with IAS 39 the Group classifies hedges as a fair value hedges used to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, b cash flow hedges used to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, and c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
In 2011 the Group applied cash flow hedge accounting for hedging floating fuel price risks in highly probable forecast purchase transactions and for hedging net investments in US$ and Euro foreign operations.
The Group applied fair value hedge accounting for the fair value interest rate risk on 200m of the Groups fixed rate bonds.
The movement on derivative financial instruments is detailed below: Foreign exchange Interest rate forward swaps contracts Fuel swaps Total m m m m Net liability asset at 1 January 2011 1.3 10.0 19.3 8.0 Transfers to the income statement on cash flow hedges 25.3 25.3 Cash settlements accrual 7.5 12.8 20.3 Revaluation through income statement 17.5 17.5 Revaluation through other comprehensive income 24.2 24.2 Exchange differences 5.0 0.2 4.8 Net asset at 31 December 2011 23.7 7.8 18.0 49.5 Foreign exchange Interest rate forward swaps contracts Fuel swaps Total m m m m Net liability at 1 January 2010 24.2 7.4 6.4 38.0 Cash settlements 22.4 2.0 2.4 26.8 Revaluation through income statement 0.4 0.2 0.6 Revaluation through other comprehensive income 21.1 21.1 Exchange differences 0.1 4.6 2.0 2.5 Net liability at 31 December 2010 1.3 10.0 19.3 8.0 The movement on the hedging reserve is detailed below: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 17.6 0.8 Transferred to income statement operating costs 25.3 2.3 Revaluation through over comprehensive income 24.2 21.1 Tax on revaluation 0.6 6.0 Tax on transfers to income statement 0.6 At 31 December 15.9 17.6 Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 123 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Hedge of net investments in foreign entities The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments to hedge the net investment in material foreign currency net assets of the Group and are used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange rate movements.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had designated a total of 250.0m of synthetic debt in the form of foreign exchange derivatives as a net investment hedge of 250.0m of the net assets of the Spanish subsidiary.
No ineffectiveness was recognised in relation to this hedge.
The foreign exchange derivatives have a maturity date of 24 January 2012 and will be rolled forward as appropriate to maintain a desirable level of hedging.
Following the Groups announcement of its intention to acquire Petermann Partners Inc, the Group has entered into a $200m foreign exchange forward as a cash flow hedge for this forecast transaction.
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instruments that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in translation reserves and, to this extent, offsets any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
Fuel derivatives The Group has a number of fuel derivatives in place to hedge the different types of fuel used in each division.
Ultra low sulphur diesel is used in the UK Bus, UK Coach and European Coach & Bus divisions and gasoil is used in the UK Rail division, both are hedged by swaps in the same type of fuel.
Diesel used in the North American division is hedged using the heating oil and diesel market.
The timing of the swap cash flows match underlying fuel purchases from 2012 through to 2013.
There was no significant element of hedge ineffectiveness requiring recognition in the income statement.
During the year 24.2m of fair value gains 2010: 21.1m have been transferred to the hedging reserve due to movements in market fuel prices.
Fair value movements of 25.3m 2010: 2.4m have been transferred from the hedging reserve to the income statement following settlement of fuel trades, of which 14.6m was recognised in the hedging reserve at 1 January 2011 and the remainder was generated during the year due to the movement in market fuel prices.
Fuel derivatives can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 Fair value Fair value Volume Volume m m million litres million litres Hedge fuel derivatives Sterling denominated UK Bus, UK Coach and UK Rail 3.4 2.9 80.6 83.7 US dollar denominated North American Bus 3.2 1.3 74.5 64.9 Euro denominated European Coach & Bus 6.5 7.9 90.0 80.0 Fuel derivatives included in current assets 13.1 12.1 245.1 228.6 Sterling denominated UK Bus, UK Coach and UK Rail 2.8 2.6 36.0 63.6 US dollar denominated North American Bus 0.6 1.3 39.7 20.8 Euro denominated European Coach & Bus 2.7 3.3 45.0 75.0 Fuel derivatives included in non-current assets liabilities 4.9 7.2 120.7 159.4 Total hedge fuel derivatives 18.0 19.3 365.8 388.0 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 124 continued 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss On 14 January 2010 the Group terminated all outstanding Euro interest rate swaps resulting in a net cash outflow of 20.9m for their fair value and accrued interest outstanding.
This followed the issue of the Groups 350m ten year Sterling bond and subsequent repayment of the Groups 270m loan on 15 January 2010.
The Group continued to account for two US$100m denominated interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss until their maturity in September 2010.
The Group accounted for their fair market value gain of 0.2m in 2010 through the income statement.
In July 2010 the Group entered into four 50m denominated interest rate swaps on a total of 200m of the Groups Sterling bonds.
These interest rate swaps all pay floating interest LIBOR a margin semi-annually, receive fixed interest annually with maturities matching the Groups Sterling bonds two swaps with total notional value 100m mature in January 2017, two swaps with notional value 100m mature June 2020 and are designated as a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk on 200m of these bonds.
These swaps are measured at fair value through profit or loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the income statement to offset any fair value gains or losses due to changes in the risk free interest rate on the swapped portion of the bonds.
As at 31 December 2011 a total fair value gain of 17.5m was recognised in the income statement in relation to these swaps.
This is offset by a fair value loss of 17.5m on the underlying hedged item, in this case changes in fair value on the 200m of the Groups bonds due to changes in the risk free interest rate.
32 Called-up share capital 2011 2010 m m At 31 December: Authorised: 800,000,000 2010: 800,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 40.0 40.0 Issued called-up and fully paid: 511,726,026 2010: 511,726,026 ordinary shares of 5p each 25.6 25.6 The total number of share options exercised in the year by employees of the Group was 1,175,455 2010: 1,301,553 of which nil exercises were satisfied by newly issued shares 2010: nil and 1,175,455 2010: 1,301,553 exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust.
Own shares Own shares comprise treasury shares and shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
Treasury shares include 1,668,688 2010: 1,668,688 ordinary shares in the Company.
No additional shares have been added during the year as treasury shares within equity for future issue under the Groups share schemes or cancellation.
No shares were cancelled during the year 2010: nil.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2011 was 3.7m 2010: 4.2m.
Own shares include 380,430 2010: 477,914 ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the Trustees of the National Express Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
During the year, the Trust purchased 991,615 2010: 714,597 shares and 1,175,455 2010: 1,301,553 shares were used to satisfy options granted under a number of the Companys share schemes.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2011 was 0.9m 2010: 1.2m.
The dividends payable on these shares have been waived.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 125 33 Other reserves Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2011 15.4 17.6 92.1 125.1 Hedge movements, net of tax 1.7 1.7 Exchange differences, net of tax 23.5 23.5 At 31 December 2011 15.4 15.9 68.6 99.9 Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2010 15.4 0.8 99.9 116.1 Hedge movements, net of tax 16.8 16.8 Exchange differences, net of tax 7.8 7.8 At 31 December 2010 15.4 17.6 92.1 125.1 The nature and purpose of the other reserves are as follows: The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Prism Rail PLC in 2000.
The reserve is not distributable: The hedging reserve records the movements on designated hedging items, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity on underlying hedged items: and The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries offset by the movements on loans and derivatives used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions The UK Bus and UK Coach divisions operate both funded defined benefit schemes and a defined contribution scheme.
The majority of employees of the UK Rail companies are members of the appropriate shared-cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The assets of all schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
Contributions to the schemes are determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Subsidiaries in North America contribute to a number of defined contribution plans.
The Group also provides certain additional unfunded post-employment benefits to employees in North America and Spain, which are disclosed in section c in the Other category.
The total pension cost for the year was 11.7m 2010: 15.3m, of which 3.5m 2010: 3.2m relates to the defined contribution schemes.
The UK Coach plan is now closed to all future accrual.
A funding plan aimed at bringing the plan to self sufficiency over a six year period was agreed in 2010: National Express contributes 4.2m annually to this scheme.
In 2011 UK Bus agreed a 5.5m annual deficit repayment plan with the trustees of the West Midlands Passenger Transport Authority Pension Fund to fund a 71m scheme funding deficit over 12 years.
The plan remains open to accrual for existing members only.
The defined benefit pension liability asset included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2011 2010 m m UK Bus 16.8 5.3 UK Coach 18.6 UK Rail 2.2 3.7 Other 1.4 1.4 Total 1.8 10.4 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 126 continued 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued The valuations conducted for financial reporting purposes are based on the triennial actuarial valuations.
A summary of the latest triennial actuarial valuations, and assumptions made, is as follows.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Travel West Tayside Midlands 31 March 31 March 5 April 31 December Date of actuarial valuation 2008 2010 2010 2007 Actuarial method used Attained age Attained age Projected unit Projected unit Rate of investment returns per annum 7.8% 5.0%-7.0% 4.1% 5.8%-7.6% Increase in earnings per annum 5.2% 4.5% 4.2% Scheme assets taken at market value 40.5m 382.0m 54.8m 355.1m Funding level 92% 84% 68% 103%-109% Amounts included in the income statement, other comprehensive income and the balance sheet are calculated using the projected unit method.
The range of funding levels and scheme assets for UK Rail reflects the range of funding levels and assets in the various sections of the RPS relating to the franchises which the Group operated at 31 December 2011.
The plans do not provide medical benefits.
The most recent triennial valuations are then updated by independent professionally qualified actuaries for financial reporting purposes, in accordance with IAS 19.
The main actuarial assumptions underlying the IAS 19 valuations are: 2011 2010 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Rate of increase in salaries 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.9% 3.9% 3.9% Rate of increase of pensions 2.0% 3.0% 2.0% 2.9% 3.5% 2.9% Discount rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.4% 5.4% 5.4% Inflation assumption RPI 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% Inflation assumption CPI 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.9% 2.9% 2.9% Expected rates of return on scheme assets Equities 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% 7.7% Bonds 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% Properties 5.7% 5.7% 5.7% 6.0% 6.0% 6.0% Other 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% Post-retirement mortality in years: Current pensioners at 65 male 20.9 24.5 19.4 21.9 Current pensioners at 65 male, pension under 8,500 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 20.5 19.8 Current pensioners at 65 male others 22.6 21.5 Current pensioners at 65 female 23.6 27.5 22.2 24.8 Current pensioners at 65 female, pension under 3,000 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 22.4 21.7 Current pensioners at 65 female others 24.8 22.7 Future pensioners at 65 male 22.3 26.6 20.4 23.0 Future pensioners at 65 male, pension under 8,500 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 22.8 22.2 Future pensioners at 65 male others 24.9 23.7 Future pensioners at 65 female 25.2 29.5 23.1 25.8 Future pensioners at 65 female, pension under 3,000 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 24.9 23.2 Future pensioners at 65 female others 27.1 24.2 Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 127 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued The demographic assumptions reflect those adopted in the most recent triennial actuarial valuation.
For the UK Rail scheme, mortality assumptions have been set by reference to the recent experience of the scheme.
Mortality is assumed to improve in the future in line with the core projection model published by the actuarial professions Continuous Mortality investigation, incorporating a long-term improvement rate of 1.5% pa.
The Directors regard the assumption around the discount rate to be the key assumption in the IAS 19 valuation, and the following table provides an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of a 0.1% change in the discount rate assumption.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail m m m Defined benefit pension liability asset at 31 December 2011 16.8 18.6 2.2 Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate 6.6 1.1 0.1 Current service cost for the year ended 31 December 2011 4.1 0.1 10.3 Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate 0.1 0.2 Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates.
The expected rate of return on scheme assets is determined based on market returns on each category of scheme assets.
b Accounting for the Railways Pension Scheme The majority of employees of the UK Rail companies are members of the appropriate section of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
To date, the Group has experienced eleven changes of UK Rail franchise ownership where the current owner has funded the scheme during the franchise term and the pension deficit at franchise exit has transferred to the new owner, without cash settlement.
By entering into the franchise contract, the TOC becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the rules of the RPS must fund its share of the pension liability in accordance with the schedule of contributions agreed with the Scheme trustees and actuaries.
In determining the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the Groups accounts present fairly its financial position, financial performance and cash flows, management has consulted with TOC industry peers and has concluded that the Groups constructive obligations should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 19.
This accounting policy, which in all other respects is consistent with that set out in this note for the Groups other defined benefit schemes, means that the Groups accounts reflect that element of the deficits anticipated to be settled by the Group during the franchise term and will prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to a new owner at franchise exit.
In calculating the Groups constructive obligations in respect of the RPS, the Group has calculated the total pension deficits in each of the RPS sections in accordance with IAS 19 and the assumptions set out above.
These deficits are reduced by a franchise adjustment which is that portion of the deficit projected to exist at the end of the franchise and which the Group will not be required to fund.
The franchise adjustment, which has been calculated by the Groups actuaries, is offset against the present value of the RPS liabilities so as to fairly present the financial performance, position and cash flows of the Groups obligations.
The franchise adjustment decreased from 72.4m at 31 December 2010 to 59.6m at 31 December 2011.
The decrease is caused by interest on the franchise adjustment of 3.9m and net actuarial movements of 16.7m.
In the prior year, the franchise adjustment decreased from 81.7m at 31 December 2009 to 72.4m at 31 December 2010.
The decrease was caused by interest on the franchise adjustment of 4.7m and net actuarial movements of 14.0m.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 128 continued 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits The amounts charged to the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 are set out in the following tables.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Total 2011 2011 2011 2011 Group income statement m m m m Amounts charged credited to Group operating profit loss : Current service cost 4.1 0.1 10.3 14.5 Expected return on pension scheme assets 25.1 3.5 14.4 43.0 Interest on pension liabilities 22.9 2.9 14.8 40.6 Interest on franchise adjustment 3.9 3.9 Total charge credit to income statement 1.9 0.5 6.8 8.2 Actual return on plan assets 17.8 13.2 1.0 32.0 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Total 2011 2011 2011 2011 Group statement of comprehensive income m m m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 7.3 9.7 13.4 11.0 Other actuarial gains and losses 12.4 2.5 12.3 2.4 Actuarial losses gains 19.7 12.2 1.1 8.6 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Total 2010 2010 2010 2010 Group income statement m m m m Amounts charged credited to Group operating profit loss : Current service cost 4.4 0.8 10.9 16.1 Curtailment gain included within exceptional items 2.3 2.3 Expected return on pension scheme assets 24.2 3.2 12.9 40.3 Interest on pension liabilities 25.1 3.2 15.0 43.3 Interest on franchise adjustment 4.7 4.7 Total charge credit to income statement 5.3 1.5 8.3 12.1 Actual return on plan assets 45.5 5.5 19.0 70.0 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Total 2010 2010 2010 2010 Group statement of comprehensive income m m m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 21.3 2.3 6.1 29.7 Other actuarial gains and losses 16.8 2.3 9.9 4.6 Actuarial gain losses 38.1 3.8 34.3 Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 129 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December are: UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Other Total 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 As at 31 December 2011 m m m m m Equities 191.7 303.7 495.4 Bonds 234.2 63.6 15.1 312.9 Property 3.6 3.6 Other 2.4 4.3 2.2 8.9 Fair value of scheme assets 431.9 67.9 321.0 820.8 Present value of scheme liabilities 448.7 49.3 423.3 1.4 922.7 Franchise adjustment 59.6 59.6 Defined benefit obligation 448.7 49.3 363.7 1.4 863.1 Members share of deficit 40.5 40.5 Defined benefit pension deficit surplus 16.8 18.6 2.2 1.4 1.8 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Other Total 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 As at 31 December 2010 m m m m m Equities 197.6 29.3 303.7 530.6 Bonds 147.5 28.7 13.8 190.0 Property 79.2 0.2 79.4 Other 5.2 1.6 0.6 7.4 Fair value of scheme assets 429.5 59.6 318.3 807.4 Present value of scheme liabilities 434.8 59.6 445.2 1.4 941.0 Franchise adjustment 72.4 72.4 Defined benefit obligation 434.8 59.6 372.8 1.4 868.6 Members share of deficit 50.8 50.8 Defined benefit pension deficit 5.3 3.7 1.4 10.4 The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation in the year is as stated below.
For UK Rail, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
The Groups defined benefit obligation comprises 861.7m 2010: 867.2m including the members share of the deficit arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded and 1.4m 2010: 1.4m from unfunded plans.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Other Total m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2011 434.8 59.6 372.8 1.4 868.6 Current service cost 4.1 0.1 10.3 14.5 Benefits paid 26.8 1.5 14.5 42.8 Contributions by employees 1.3 6.1 7.4 Finance charge 22.9 2.9 14.8 40.6 Interest on franchise adjustment 3.9 3.9 Settlement 9.3 9.3 Members share of movement on liabilities 9.6 9.6 Actuarial loss gain recognised in statement of comprehensive income 12.4 2.5 12.3 2.4 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2011 448.7 49.3 363.7 1.4 863.1 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 130 continued 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Other Total m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2010 446.3 56.8 342.0 1.4 846.5 Current service cost 4.4 0.8 10.9 16.1 Benefits paid 25.6 1.5 14.5 41.6 Contributions by employees 1.4 0.3 6.5 8.2 Finance charge 25.1 3.2 15.0 43.3 Curtailment gain 2.3 2.3 Interest on franchise adjustment 4.7 4.7 Members share of movement on liabilities 7.7 7.7 Actuarial gain loss recognised in statement of comprehensive income 16.8 2.3 9.9 4.6 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2010 434.8 59.6 372.8 1.4 868.6 The movement in the fair value of scheme assets is as follows: UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2011 429.5 59.6 318.3 807.4 Expected return on plan assets 25.1 3.5 14.4 43.0 Cash contributions employer 10.0 6.0 9.5 25.5 Cash contributions employee 1.4 6.1 7.5 Benefits paid 26.8 1.5 14.5 42.8 Members share of return on assets 0.6 0.6 Actuarial loss gain recognised in statement of comprehensive income 7.3 9.7 13.4 11.0 Settlement 9.4 9.4 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2011 431.9 67.9 321.0 820.8 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2010 399.9 51.6 284.4 735.9 Expected return on plan assets 24.2 3.2 12.9 40.3 Cash contributions employer 8.3 3.7 10.2 22.2 Cash contributions employee 1.4 0.3 6.5 8.2 Benefits paid 25.6 1.5 14.5 41.6 Members share of return on assets 12.7 12.7 Actuarial gain recognised in statement of comprehensive income 21.3 2.3 6.1 29.7 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2010 429.5 59.6 318.3 807.4 Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 131 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued The Group expects to contribute 13.3m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2012.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 History of experience gains and losses: m m m m m UK Bus Fair value of scheme assets 431.9 429.5 399.9 362.8 412.0 Present value of defined benefit obligation 448.7 434.8 446.3 357.4 412.4 Restriction on surplus 9.0 4.7 Deficit in the scheme 16.8 5.3 46.4 3.6 5.1 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 23.3 0.1 0.2 3.3 4.6 Experience adjustments arising on assets 7.3 21.3 31.3 62.8 5.2 UK Coach Fair value of scheme assets 67.9 59.6 51.6 42.1 43.7 Present value of defined benefit obligation 49.3 59.6 56.8 43.3 48.6 Deficit in the scheme 18.6 5.2 1.2 4.9 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 0.1 2.7 2.2 Experience adjustments arising on assets 9.7 2.3 3.8 7.8 0.6 UK Rail Fair value of scheme assets 321.0 318.3 284.4 444.7 620.3 Present value of defined benefit obligation 363.7 372.8 342.0 526.7 653.1 Members share of deficit 40.5 50.8 55.7 43.3 14.0 Deficit in the scheme 2.2 3.7 1.9 38.7 18.8 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 8.5 12.2 1.1 16.9 5.3 Experience adjustments arising on assets 13.4 6.1 23.2 121.4 3.2 Other Fair value of scheme assets Present value of defined benefit obligation 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.0 Deficit in the scheme 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.0 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income since 1 January 2004 is 19.2m loss 2010: 10.6m loss.
The Directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRSs and taken directly to equity of 51.9m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes.
Consequently the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income before 1 January 2004.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 132 continued 35 Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments The Groups total operating lease commitments are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year: Land and buildings 36.6 82.4 Plant and equipment 46.4 158.0 83.0 240.4 After one year but not more than five years: Land and buildings 31.2 46.7 Plant and equipment 43.5 75.7 74.7 122.4 More than five years: Land and buildings 32.0 33.8 Plant and equipment 0.9 5.8 32.9 39.6 190.6 402.4 Operating lease commitments The majority of the Groups commitments arise in the UK Rail division.
UK Rail division companies have contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure tracks, stations and depots.
They also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased.
The TOCs obligations to fulfil these commitments exist only as part of their franchise agreement.
The table below reflects the commitments up to the current franchise end dates unless an extension or new franchise agreement has been signed.
The commitments are based on charges advised by the Rail Regulator for the period starting on 1 April 2010.
Commitments for future minimum rental payments under these contracts are shown below: Land and Plant and buildings equipment 2011 2010 2011 2010 UK Rail division commitments m m m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year: Fixed track access 14.8 47.8 Rolling stock 36.2 145.1 Other 7.4 21.1 0.8 1.1 22.2 68.9 37.0 146.2 After one year but not more than five years: Fixed track access 4.1 13.4 Rolling stock 9.4 31.6 Other 2.2 6.8 0.3 1.0 6.3 20.2 9.7 32.6 28.5 89.1 46.7 178.8 Fixed track access agreements have an average remaining life of 1.0 years 2010: 1.1 years, other land and buildings have an average duration of 1.0 years 2010: 1.2 years.
Rolling stock agreements have an average life of 0.9 years 2010: 1.0 years and other plant and equipment 1.2 years 2010: 1.9 years.
Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 133 35 Commitments and contingencies continued Outside of the UK Rail division the Group has entered into operating leases on certain properties, public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
Commitments for future minimum rental payments under cancellable operating leases are shown below: Land and buildings Public service vehicles Other 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Other divisions commitments m m m m m m Within one year 14.4 13.5 9.2 10.9 0.2 0.9 After one year but not more than five years 24.9 26.5 33.5 41.5 0.3 1.6 More than five years 32.0 33.8 0.9 5.8 71.3 73.8 43.6 58.2 0.5 2.5 The average remaining life of operating lease commitments in the other divisions is 4.0 years 2010: 4.1 years for land and buildings, 3.5 years 2010: 3.8 years for public service vehicles and 2.4 years 2010: 2.7 years for other plant and equipment.
Operating lease agreements where the Group is the lessor The Group receives rent on properties as follows: 2011 2010 m m Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year 1.4 4.1 After one year but not more than five years 0.4 1.4 More than five years 1.8 5.5 The leases have an average unexpired duration of 1.3 years 2010: 1.5 years.
Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These leases have terms of renewal but no purchase options and escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
2011 2010 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments m m m m Within one year 22.6 22.1 28.2 27.8 After one year but not more than five years 95.4 85.9 83.1 73.5 More than five years 51.4 43.3 38.5 30.3 Total minimum lease payments 169.4 151.3 149.8 131.6 Less future financing charges 18.1 18.2 Present value of minimum lease payments 151.3 151.3 131.6 131.6 Capital commitments 2011 2010 m m Contracted 43.7 31.1 The Group is committed to vehicle purchases and various land and buildings improvements.
Contingent liabilities Bonds and letters of credit In the ordinary course of business, the Group is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its operations.
As at 31 December 2011 there were UK Rail performance bonds of 25.8m 2010: 25.8m and UK Rail season ticket bonds of 92.3m 2010: 85.0m.
The Group has other performance bonds which include the 9.0m 2010: 17.9m performance bond in respect of Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited, a performance bond with Birmingham City Council relating to the building of the new coach station of 0.2m 2010: nil, performance bonds in respect of businesses in the US of 108.1m 2010: 100.2m and the rest of Europe of 23.3m 2010: 25.6m.
Letters of credit have been issued to support insurance retentions of 30.8m 2010: 39.4m.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 134 continued 36 Related party transactions Amounts due from Amount of transactions related parties Amounts due to related parties 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Associates ICRRL 9.0 8.7 9.0 18.2 Spain associates 2.6 1.6 1.0 0.8 1.0 1.1 Total associates 11.6 10.3 1.0 0.8 10.0 19.3 Trade investments Spain trade investments 4.3 4.2 0.6 0.9 0.5 0.3 Property transactions Stock Transportation 0.5 Spain 5.0 5.0 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.4 Durham School Services 0.1 Total other related parties 9.3 9.8 1.0 1.3 0.7 0.7 Total 20.9 20.1 2.0 2.1 10.7 20.0 Amounts due to ICRRL are included in provisions as disclosed in note 26.
A provision of 0.2m 2010: 0.4m has been booked against amounts due from European Coach & Bus associates, which are presented net.
Property transactions There are no longer any related party transactions in North America and all of the transactions in prior years related to senior employees who left the business prior to 2011.
A number of Spanish companies have leased properties from companies related to the Cosmen family.
Jorge Cosmen is a Non-Executive Director of the Group and was appointed as Deputy Chairman in October 2008.
These leases were in place before the Groups acquisition of ALSA and are for appropriate market rates.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 2011 2010 m m Total compensation paid to key management personnel note 7 3.5 4.7 Financial statements Notes to The Consolidated Accounts 135 37 Cash flow statement The net cash inflows from operating activities include outflows of 8.2m 2010: 52.6m from continuing operations which are related to exceptional costs incurred in the prior year.
a Reconciliation of Group profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2011 2010 Total operations m m Net cash inflow from operating activities Profit before tax from continuing operations 129.4 40.2 Loss before tax from discontinued operations 0.5 Net finance costs 46.4 46.0 Share of post tax results under the equity method 1.4 0.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 105.5 99.8 Intangible asset amortisation 50.8 57.1 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 1.5 1.7 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.1 6.6 Share-based payments 5.0 3.9 Increase in inventories 1.4 1.2 Increase in receivables 18.8 33.0 Decrease increase in payables 28.9 20.9 Decrease in provisions continuing operations 37.0 12.4 Decrease in provisions discontinued operations 3.3 Cash generated from operations 247.0 222.1 b Analysis of changes in net debt At At 1 January Acquisitions Exchange Other 31 December 2011 Cash flow disposals differences movements 2011 m m m m m m Cash 81.5 16.3 0.4 64.8 Overnight deposits 36.8 11.8 25.0 Other short-term deposits 10.5 7.8 2.7 Cash and cash equivalents 128.8 35.9 0.4 92.5 Other debt receivables 0.7 0.7 Borrowings: Bank loans 39.8 34.5 1.0 0.3 1.9 7.9 Bonds 565.6 17.8 583.4 Fair value of bond hedging derivatives 1.1 17.5 16.4 Finance lease obligations 131.6 24.9 0.9 43.7 151.3 Other debt payable 1.8 1.1 0.7 Total borrowings 739.9 60.5 1.0 0.6 45.9 726.9 Net debt 610.4 24.6 1.0 1.0 45.9 633.7 Excludes accrued interest on bonds.
Short-term deposits included within liquid resources relate to term deposits repayable within three months.
Borrowings include non-current interest bearing borrowings of 718.4m 2010: 674.4m as disclosed in note 28.
Other non-cash movements in net debt represent finance lease additions of 43.7m 2010: 77.1m and 2.2m 2010: 4.4m amortisation of loan and bond arrangement fees.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 136 continued 37 Cash flow statement continued b Analysis of changes in net debt continued At At 1 January Acquisitions Exchange Other 31 December 2010 Cash flow disposals differences movements 2010 m m m m m m Cash 58.3 23.9 0.1 0.8 81.5 Overnight deposits 12.0 25.0 0.2 36.8 Other short-term deposits 35.5 25.0 10.5 Cash and cash equivalents 105.8 23.9 0.1 1.0 128.8 Other debt receivables 0.8 0.1 0.7 Borrowings: Bank loans 687.7 642.6 8.9 3.6 39.8 Bonds 565.9 0.3 565.6 Fair value of bond hedging derivatives 1.1 1.1 Finance lease obligations 75.6 18.7 2.4 77.1 131.6 Other debt payable 1.2 0.6 1.8 Total borrowings 764.5 94.8 11.3 81.5 739.9 Net debt 657.9 118.6 0.1 10.3 81.5 610.4 Excludes accrued interest on bonds.
c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2011 2010 m m Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 35.9 23.9 Cash inflow from movement in other debt receivables 0.1 Cash outflow from movement in debt and finance leases 60.5 94.8 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 24.6 118.6 Change in net debt resulting from acquisitions and disposals 1.0 0.1 Change in net debt resulting from non-cash movements 46.9 71.2 Movement in net debt in the year 23.3 47.5 Opening net debt 610.4 657.9 Net debt 633.7 610.4 38 Post balance sheet events On 5 February 2012, the Group passed over the running of the East Anglia Rail Franchise to Abellio Greater Anglia Limited.
