Shareholder information 150 Shareholder electronic communications By registering for electronic communications you can help us to reduce print, paper and postage costs.
co. uk if you would like to: register your e-mail so that you are able to access future shareholder information, including the Annual Report and Accounts electronically check the balance of your shareholding set up a dividend mandate online change your registered postal address or your dividend mandate details submit your vote online prior to a general meeting To sign up for the first time you should click on Register and follow the simple instructions you will need your shareholder reference number from your share certificate or dividend voucher or any other correspondence sent to you by Equiniti Limited.
Dividends paid direct to your bank account Having dividends paid direct to your bank account has the following advantages: avoids the risk of cheques being lost and incurring a replacement fee saves you time in presenting the cheque for payment the dividend is credited to your account on the payment date The tax voucher is sent to your registered address at the same time as the dividend is credited to your account.
To set up a new dividend mandate please log on to www.
co. uk or contact the Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Shareholder helpline number: 0871 384 2152 or 44 121 415 7047 from overseas.
Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline, other providers costs may vary.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Share dealing service A telephone and internet share dealing service, which provides a simple way to buy and sell shares, is available through our Registrar, Equiniti.
For further information log on to www.
Calls to this number are charged by BT at the local rate.
Company website The Company website at www.
com has information about the Group, including press releases, share price data and copies of the half year results and annual report and accounts as well as corporate responsibility reporting.
The Company no longer publishes the half year results in hard copy.
These will now only be available via the website.
ShareGift ShareGift is an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from www.
Unclaimed assets register The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register UAR which provides a search facility for shareholdings and other financial assets that may have been forgotten.
For further information contact UAR, PO Box 9501, Nottingham NG80 1WD.
