National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 35 Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2011 basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities A.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting between businesses and activities.
These items comprise statements under IFRS shared services and certain business services.
National Grid Gass principal activities involve the transmission These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering between businesses and activities in accordance with the services within Great Britain.
The Company is a public limited activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
company incorporated and domiciled in England with its registered office at 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
Unrelated items Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, These regulatory accounting statements were approved for liabilities and equity of the Company which are not directly issue by the Board of Directors on 27 July 2011. attributable to a specific business or activity, and where there is These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in no reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition assets, liabilities and equity between the businesses and of the Companys NTS gas transporter licence issued under the activities.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, Utilities Act 2000 the licence, and in accordance with financial items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted apportioned between businesses and activities using the by the European Union.
They are prepared on the basis of all following arbitrary bases: IFRS accounting standards and interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March 2010 and in Corporate costs charged to the Company by National Grid accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to are apportioned using the same metrics as National Grid companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the European uses to determine the allocated charge to the Company.
The 2010 comparative financial These metrics take into account relative revenue, information has also been prepared on this basis.
operating profit, employees and net assets.
The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on a Holdings Limited is apportioned between the regulatory historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of derivative businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory financial instruments and investments classified as available for values.
Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for this format of regulatory accounting statements, which These regulatory accounting statements are presented in comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, Company.
was apportioned between regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires amounts were apportioned to the fide-minimis business or management to make estimates and assumptions that affect to other activities.
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of The amounts at subsequent period ends have been contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of determined by separately adjusting these initially revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual apportioned amounts by the cash generated or used by results could differ from these estimates.
each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net debt allocated to each business and other funding Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity movements.
The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, Movements in fair value and other funding movements liabilities and equity of the Company are attributed to the are initially apportioned between the regulatory businesses and activities reported in the regulatory accounting businesses relative to the net debt at the start of the statements.
Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity period in which the movements occurred.
A further which are not directly attributable to specific businesses or reallocation of funding between regulatory businesses is activities have been apportioned between the businesses and then applied so that the overall allocation ratio for closing activities according to whether they are related items or net debt across our regulatory businesses reflects their unrelated items.
individual estimated maximum debt potential, taking into account RAV gearing ratios.
Related items Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and according to the relative level of net debt determined liabilities of the Company which are not directly attributable to a according to the principles set out above.
specific business or activity, but where there is a reasonable 36 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Current and deferred taxation are apportioned relative to exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are the results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax classified as equity and transferred to the consolidated computations for each business and activity, commencing translation reserve.
Prior year tax adjustments substantially relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April D. Intangible assets 2005 are apportioned in the ratio of estimated regulatory Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less values at that date.
The estimated capital allowances accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
Current tax liabilities have been are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: apportioned relative to current tax charges and tax paid or it is probable that the asset created will generate future recovered is determined by balance.
economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year can be measured reliably.
Where no internally generated have been apportioned on the basis of profits for the year.
intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
have been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory values.
Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other The apportionment of the total equity of the Company at 1 non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line April 2005, comprising called up share capital, share basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: determined as a balancing item at that date.
The amounts Amortisation periods Years at subsequent period ends are determined by separately Software 3 to 5 adjusting these initially apportioned amounts by the equity movements derived for each business or activity as a Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in consequence of all other allocations and funding accordance with accounting policy R. movements.
E. Property, plant and equipment B.
Basis of consolidation Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost less The regulatory accounting statements incorporate the financial accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are.
A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and Control is achieved where the Company has the power to equipment as well as the cost of any associated asset govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to retirement obligations.
obtain benefits from its activities.
Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or accounting policies used under UK generally accepted contractual rights of use.
accounting principles UK GAAP used in the individual financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and joint Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, ventures into line with those used by the Company in its including capital expenditure for safety and environmental consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
Inter-company assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of transactions are eliminated.
C. Foreign currencies Contributions from customers towards the cost of property, plant and equipment received prior to 1 July 2009, together with Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of contributions towards the cost of relocating plant and the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates equipment, are included in trade and other payables as of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each deferred income and credited on a straight-line basis to the balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are income statement over the estimated economic useful lives of denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing the assets to which they relate.
Other non-monetary assets are not retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
Contributions from customers received post 1 July 2009 are recognised in revenue immediately, except where the Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets contributions are consideration for a future service, in which and liabilities are included in the income statement.
case they are recognised initially as deferred income and On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing revenue is subsequently recognised over the period in which operations that have a functional currency different from the the service is provided.
Companys functional currency of sterling are translated at Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Other property, plant and equipment are and expense items are translated at the weighted average National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 37 depreciated, principally on a straight-line basis, at rates Deferred tax estimated to write off their book values over their estimated Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic method and is recognised on temporary differences between lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial given to any contractual arrangements and operational statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise computation of taxable profit.
determined by operational requirements, the depreciation Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable periods for the principal categories of property, plant and temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be Depreciation periods Years available against which deductible temporary differences can Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Plant and machinery temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the accounting profits nor the meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 taxable profits.
Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to F. Impairment of assets apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in estimated.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair equity.
In these cases the tax is also recognised in other value less costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
the impairment review is undertaken.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Value in use represents the present value of expected future balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow reflects current market assessments of the time value of money all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each future cash flows have not been adjusted.
balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some deferred tax asset to be recovered.
indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been impaired.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against Material impairments are recognised in the income statement current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes and are disclosed separately.
levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
G. Taxation Current tax H. Inventories Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation are stated at cost less provision for damage and obsolescence.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the Cost comprises cost of direct materials and those costs that amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged or credited to the location and condition.
income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Environmental costs In these cases the tax is also recognised in other Provision is made for environmental costs arising from past comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
operations, based on future estimated expenditures, discounted Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax to present values.
Changes in the provision arising from revised returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax estimates or discount rates or changes in the expected timing of regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions expenditures are recognised in the income statement.
The where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid unwinding of the discount is included within the income to the tax authorities.
38 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in J.
Revenue this category or not classified in any other categories.
Revenue represents the sales value derived from the transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and metering services during the year including assessment of the subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate value of services provided, but not invoiced at the year end.
It allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount permitted recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future amortised cost.
prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the overrecovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to future Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest income, asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an underare derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income recovery.
The sales value for the provision of gas metering services is Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus, in largely derived from monthly charges for the provision of the case of available-for-sale financial investments, directly individual meters under contractual arrangements.
related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair Income arising from the sale of properties as a result of property value of investments classified as fair value through profit and management activities, from the sale of emission allowances loss are included in the income statement, while changes in the and from the recovery of pension deficit from other gas fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are transporters under regulatory arrangements is reported under recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of other operating income or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative K. Segmental information gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Investment income on Segmental information is based on the information the Board of available-for-sale investments is recognised using the effective Directors uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the interest rate method and taken through interest income in the performance of operating segments and determining resource income statement.
The Board of Directors is deemed to be the chief operating decision-maker and Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail assesses the performance of operations principally on the basis Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at of operating items before exceptionals and remeasurements.
their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
L. Pensions Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the The substantial majority of the Companys employees are effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the statement using the effective interest rate method.
Accordingly, the Scheme is recognised as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, or pension charge for the year represents the contributions construction of assets that necessarily take a substantial period payable to the Scheme for the period.
A share of the assets and of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to their cost.
liabilities, or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme are Such additions cease when the assets are substantially ready not recognised in these financial statements.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and M. Leases where the fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a derivative asset and where negative, as a derivative liability.
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if N. Financial instruments the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right to Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a according to the substance of the contractual arrangements net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 39 value are included in the income statement in the period they hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the arise.
initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
No adjustment is made with respect to derivative clauses Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in closely related to those instruments or contracts.
In particular, the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in hedged.
These changes are recognised in the income the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
embedded derivative, which is closely related to the underlying Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in relationship between interest rates and inflation in the UK line with the hedged item.
Consequently these embedded derivatives are not Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
Where there hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as are embedded derivatives in host contracts not closely related, they arise, within finance costs.
the embedded derivative is separately accounted for as a derivative financial instrument and recorded at fair value.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently received, net of direct issue costs with an amount equal to the recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in nominal amount of the shares issued included in the share which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For capital account and the balance recorded in the share premium fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the account.
carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active effective interest rate method.
markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is fair values are determined using valuation techniques which are transferred to the income statement immediately.
consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant market.
The techniques use observable market data.
P. Share-based payments National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to O.
Hedge accounting certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial Equity-settled, share-based payments are measured at fair instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with date of the equity-settled, share-based payments is expensed underlying business activities and the financing of those on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement Q.
Business performance and exceptional items of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify and remeasurements for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the Our financial performance is analysed into two components: hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology business performance, which excludes exceptional items and used for effectiveness measurement.
The Company uses two remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
Business performance is used by management to monitor Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments financial performance, as it is considered to increase the that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows comparability of our reported financial performance from year to cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in statements.
the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, 40 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our U.
Dividends financial performance and significantly distort the comparability Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to of financial performance between periods.
Final dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation as exceptional items include such V. Areas of judgement and key sources of items as significant restructurings, write-downs, pension deficit estimation uncertainty payments or impairments of non-current assets, significant The preparation of financial statements requires management changes in environmental provisions, and gains or losses on to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported disposals of businesses or investments.
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and redundancy costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to the expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ income statement in the year in which an irrevocable from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and commitment is made to incur the costs and the main features of estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to the restructuring plan have been announced to affected the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised employees.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of amounts recognised in the financial statements: derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge The bases used to attribute revenue, costs, assets and accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
liabilities between the regulatory businesses accounting R. Emission allowances policy A.
Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at earnings note 4. the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is 2004. deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined recognised in the income statement in the period in which contribution scheme accounting policy L. carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in Hedge accounting accounting policy O. respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Income from emission allowances which are sold is reported as Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment part of other operating income.
charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. S. Cash and cash equivalents Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in 12, 15 and 27. hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue original maturity of less than three months that are readily accounting policy J. convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an Environmental provisions note 21. insignificant change in value.
Net cash and cash equivalents reflected in the cash flow statement are net of bank overdrafts, which are reported in borrowings.
T. Other reserves Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in 1999.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
