National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 1 About these regulatory accounting statements National Grid Gas plc is the holder of two gas transporter Relationship of regulatory accounting statements with licences: one in respect of its gas transmission NTS business statutory accounts and one in respect of its gas distribution network DN The financial information contained in these regulatory businesses.
Under Standard Special Condition A30 of each of accounting statements does not constitute statutory accounts these licences, we are required to prepare and publish annual within the meaning of section 404 of the Companies Act 2006. regulatory accounting statements setting out the financial Statutory accounts for the Company for the year ended 31 position and performance of each of the regulatory businesses March 2011, to which the financial information relates, have covered by that licence.
been delivered to the registrar of Companies.
Scope of the regulatory accounting statements The auditors have made a report under Section 495 of the These NTS regulatory accounting statements are for National Companies Act 2006 on those statutory accounts which was Grid Gas and its NTS business, which comprises gas unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section transmission, including LNG storage.
We also prepare and 498 2 or 3 of the Act.
The auditors opinion on the Companys publish regulatory accounting statements for our DN business, statutory accounts is addressed to, and for the benefit of, the including gas metering.
Together, these two sets of regulatory members of the Company and not for any other person or accounting statements comprise all the businesses and purpose.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their opinion on activities of National Grid Gas.
those statutory accounts, that it has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with The regulatory gas transmission business included in these Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no regulatory accounting statements differs in certain respects other purpose.
In giving their opinion, they do not accept or from the gas transmission operating segment reported in the assume responsibility for any other purposes or to any other Companys annual report and accounts.
person to whom their audit report on the statutory accounts is Content of the regulatory accounting statements shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly In accordance with the licence and as agreed with the Gas and agreed by their prior consent in writing.
Electricity Markets Authority GEMA, these regulatory The statutory accounts of the Company, and of the ultimate accounting statements comprise: parent company National Grid plc National Grid, can be An Operating and financial review for the Company as a obtained from the Company Secretarys Office, National Grid whole including information on the financial performance plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH, and from the website and financial position of our NTS business.
of National Grid plc at www.
A Directors report in respect of the Company as a whole Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements A Corporate governance statement in respect of our These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary regulatory gas transmission business.
apportionments of certain revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and A Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing shareholders equity of the Company which are not specifically regulatory accounting statements attributable to the regulatory businesses and activities reported The Independent auditors report on the regulatory in these regulatory accounting statements, but which, accounting statements.
This is separate to their report on nevertheless, we are required to report against those the annual report and accounts of the Company.
Further details of these items are Consolidated financial statements for the Company as a provided in the Basis of preparation on page 35 and 36. whole, including additional accounting policies in respect of the basis of preparation of the supplementary analyses included in these regulatory accounting statements.
Supplementary analysis of the financial statements by regulatory business, including a reconciliation to the financial statements for the Company as a whole and certain information, which, in accordance with the licence, is provided only to GEMA and is not published.
Supplementary analysis of the financial statements for our NTS business by Transmission Owner TO and System Operator SO activities.
This extra-licence information is provided only to Ofgem and is not published.
