34 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2011 basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities A.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting between businesses and activities.
These items comprise statements under IFRS activities in respect of the DNs carried out on a centralised National Grid Gass principal activities involve the transmission basis, shared services and certain business services.
and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned services within Great Britain.
The Company is a public limited between businesses and activities in accordance with the company incorporated and domiciled in England with its activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
registered office at 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
Unrelated items These regulatory accounting statements were approved for Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, issue by the Board of Directors on 27 July 2011. liabilities and equity of the Company which are not directly These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in attributable to a specific business or activity, and where there is accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition no reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, of the Companys DN gas transporter licence issued under the assets, liabilities and equity between the businesses and Utilities Act 2000 the licence, and in accordance with activities.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by financial items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are by the European Union.
They are prepared on the basis of all apportioned between businesses and activities using the IFRS accounting standards and interpretations that are following arbitrary bases: mandatory for periods ending 31 March 2010 and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Corporate costs charged to the Company by National Grid companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the European are apportioned using the same metrics as National Grid Union IAS regulation.
The 2010 comparative financial uses to determine the allocated charge to the Company.
information has also been prepared on this basis.
These metrics take into account relative revenue, operating profit, employees and net assets.
The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on a The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of derivative Holdings Limited is apportioned between the regulatory financial instruments and investments classified as available for businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory sale.
These regulatory accounting statements are presented in Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the this format of regulatory accounting statements, which Company.
comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires was apportioned between regulatory businesses in the management to make estimates and assumptions that affect ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of amounts were apportioned to the fide-minimis business or contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of to other activities.
revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual The amounts at subsequent period ends have been results could differ from these estimates.
determined by separately adjusting these initially Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity apportioned amounts by the cash generated or used by The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net liabilities and equity of the Company are attributed to the debt allocated to each business and other funding businesses and activities reported in the regulatory accounting movements.
Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity Movements in fair value and other funding movements which are not directly attributable to specific businesses or are initially apportioned between the regulatory activities have been apportioned between the businesses and businesses relative to the net debt at the start of the activities according to whether they are related items or period in which the movements occurred.
reallocation of funding between regulatory businesses is Related items then applied so that the overall allocation ratio for closing net debt across our regulatory businesses reflects their Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and individual estimated maximum debt potential, taking into liabilities of the Company which are not directly attributable to a account RAV gearing ratios.
specific business or activity, but where there is a reasonable National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 35 Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses accounting principles UK GAAP used in the individual financial according to the relative level of net debt determined statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and joint according to the principles set out above.
ventures into line with those used by the Company in its Current and deferred taxation are apportioned relative to consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
Inter-company the results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax transactions are eliminated.
computations for each business and activity, commencing C. Foreign currencies from 1 April 2005.
Prior year tax adjustments substantially Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates 2005 are apportioned in the ratio of estimated regulatory of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each values at that date.
The estimated capital allowances balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not values at that date.
Current tax liabilities have been retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
apportioned relative to current tax charges and tax paid or recovered is determined by balance.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year and liabilities are included in the income statement.
have been apportioned on the basis of profits for the year.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings operations that have a functional currency different from the have been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory Companys functional currency of sterling are translated at values.
exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income The apportionment of the total equity of the Company at and expense items are translated at the weighted average 1 April 2005, comprising called up share capital, share exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was classified as equity and transferred to the consolidated determined as a balancing item at that date.
at subsequent period ends are determined by separately adjusting these initially apportioned amounts by the equity D. Intangible assets movements derived for each business or activity as a Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less consequence of all other allocations and funding accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, Outer Met Area are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: A geographical area on the boundary of the East of England DN it is probable that the asset created will generate future and the London DN, the Outer Met Area forms part of the economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset London DN for managerial, operational and cost accounting can be measured reliably.
Where no internally generated purposes.
For regulatory and income accounting purposes, the intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is Outer Met Area is treated as part of the East of England DN.
recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
The relevant operating costs, assets and liabilities are reported in these regulatory accounting statements as part of the East of Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal The amounts of additions to the gas distribution network for the amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: Outer Met Area are assessed by management based upon project information.
Other amounts for the Outer Met Area, Amortisation periods Years comprising transportation business operating costs, the overall Software 3 to 5 balance of property, plant and equipment, other assets and related liabilities are deemed to be 9% of those amounts of Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in London DN.
accordance with accounting policy R. B.
Basis of consolidation E. Property, plant and equipment The regulatory accounting statements incorporate the financial Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost less statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are Control is achieved where the Company has the power to directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to equipment as well as the cost of any associated asset obtain benefits from its activities.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under UK generally accepted 36 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been contractual rights of use.
Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, Material impairments are recognised in the income statement including capital expenditure for safety and environmental and are disclosed separately.
assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of G. Taxation existing assets.
Current tax Contributions from customers towards the cost of property, Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount plant and equipment received prior to 1 July 2009, together with expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation contributions towards the cost of relocating plant and authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the equipment, are included in trade and other payables as amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by deferred income and credited on a straight-line basis to the the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged or credited to the income statement over the estimated economic useful lives of income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items the assets to which they relate.
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In these cases the tax is also recognised in other Contributions from customers received post 1 July 2009 are comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
recognised in revenue immediately, except where the Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax contributions are consideration for a future service, in which returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax case they are recognised initially as deferred income and regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions revenue is subsequently recognised over the period in which where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid the service is provided.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the Deferred tax course of construction.
Other property, plant and equipment are Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability depreciated, principally on a straight-line basis, at rates method and is recognised on temporary differences between estimated to write off their book values over their estimated the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is computation of taxable profit.
given to any contractual arrangements and operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable determined by operational requirements, the depreciation temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised periods for the principal categories of property, plant and to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Depreciation periods Years temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a Plant and machinery transaction that affects neither the accounting profits nor the mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 taxable profits.
meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been F. Impairment of assets enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of equity.
In these cases the tax is also recognised in other the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each the impairment review is undertaken.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow Value in use represents the present value of expected future all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reflects current market assessments of the time value of money balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of become probable that future taxable profit will allow the future cash flows have not been adjusted.
deferred tax asset to be recovered.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 37 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a assesses the performance of operations principally on the basis legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against of operating items before exceptionals and remeasurements.
current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes L. Pensions levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle The substantial majority of the Companys employees are current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK H. Inventories Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the are stated at cost less provision for damage and obsolescence.
Accordingly, the Scheme is Cost comprises cost of direct materials and those costs that recognised as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present pension charge for the year represents the contributions location and condition.
payable to the Scheme for the period.
A share of the assets and liabilities, or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme are I.
Environmental costs not recognised in these financial statements.
Provision is made for environmental costs arising from past M. Leases operations, based on future estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
Changes in the provision arising from revised Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a estimates or discount rates or changes in the expected timing of straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
expenditures are recognised in the income statement.
The N. Financial instruments unwinding of the discount is included within the income Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified statement as a financing charge.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements J.
Revenue entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale Revenue represents the sales value derived from the financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas this category or not classified in any other categories.
metering services during the year including assessment of the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and value of services provided, but not invoiced at the year end.
It subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount permitted debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the overrecognised at fair value and subsequently measured at recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to future amortised cost.
prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest income, adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an undertogether with gains and losses when the loans and receivables recovery.
are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income The sales value for the provision of gas metering services is statement.
largely derived from monthly charges for the provision of Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus, in individual meters under contractual arrangements.
the case of available-for-sale financial investments, directly Income arising from the sale of properties as a result of property related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently management activities, from the sale of emission allowances carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair and from the recovery of pension deficit from other gas value of investments classified as fair value through profit and transporters under regulatory arrangements is reported under loss are included in the income statement, while changes in the other operating income fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of K. Segmental information or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative Segmental information is based on the information the Board of gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Directors uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the income statement for the period.
Investment income on performance of operating segments and determining resource available-for-sale investments is recognised using the effective allocation between operating segments.
The Board of Directors interest rate method and taken through interest income in the is deemed to be the chief operating decision-maker and income statement.
38 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail O.
Hedge accounting Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the underlying business activities and the financing of those proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is activities.
recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a statement using the effective interest rate method.
hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, or mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement construction of assets that necessarily take a substantial period of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to their cost.
for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the Such additions cease when the assets are substantially ready hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology for their intended use.
The Company uses two hedge accounting methods.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and where the fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments derivative asset and where negative, as a derivative liability.
that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right to ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in value are included in the income statement in the period they the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or arise.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being No adjustment is made with respect to derivative clauses hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
closely related to those instruments or contracts.
In particular, interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in embedded derivative, which is closely related to the underlying the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong hedged.
These changes are recognised in the income relationship between interest rates and inflation in the UK statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
Consequently these embedded derivatives are not Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
Where there for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in are embedded derivatives in host contracts not closely related, line with the hedged item.
the embedded derivative is separately accounted for as a Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for derivative financial instrument and recorded at fair value.
hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual they arise, within finance costs.
interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer received, net of direct issue costs with an amount equal to the qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative nominal amount of the shares issued included in the share gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in capital account and the balance recorded in the share premium equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently account.
recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the fair values are determined using valuation techniques which are effective interest rate method.
consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, market.
The techniques use observable market data.
the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement immediately.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 39 P. Share-based payments R. Emission allowances National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at Equity-settled, share-based payments are measured at fair the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is date of the equity-settled, share-based payments is expensed deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
recognised in the income statement in the period in which Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in Q.
Business performance and exceptional items which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
and remeasurements Income from emission allowances which are sold is reported as Our financial performance is analysed into two components: part of other operating income.
business performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
S. Cash and cash equivalents Business performance is used by management to monitor Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in financial performance, as it is considered to increase the hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an comparability of our reported financial performance from year to original maturity of less than three months that are readily year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the insignificant change in value.
Net cash and cash equivalents face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial reflected in the cash flow statement are net of bank overdrafts, statements.
which are reported in borrowings.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income T. Other reserves and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in financial performance and significantly distort the comparability 1999.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share of financial performance between periods.
capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable Items of income or expense that are considered by to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been management for designation as exceptional items include such disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
items as significant restructurings, write-downs, pension deficit payments or impairments of non-current assets, significant U.
Dividends changes in environmental provisions, and gains or losses on Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to disposals of businesses or investments.
Final dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to redundancy costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which an irrevocable commitment is made to incur the costs and the main features of the restructuring plan have been announced to affected employees.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
40 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 V. Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The bases used to attribute revenue, costs, assets and liabilities between the regulatory businesses accounting policy A.
The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted earnings note 4.
The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy L. Hedge accounting accounting policy O.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 12, 15 and 27.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy J.
