National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 1 About these regulatory accounting statements National Grid Gas plc is the holder of two gas transporter Relationship of regulatory accounting statements with licences: one in respect of its gas transmission NTS business statutory accounts and one in respect of its gas distribution network DN The financial information contained in these regulatory businesses.
Under Standard Special Condition A30 of each of accounting statements does not constitute statutory accounts these licences, we are required to prepare and publish annual within the meaning of section 404 of the Companies Act 2006. regulatory accounting statements setting out the financial Statutory accounts for the Company for the year ended 31 position and performance of each of the regulatory businesses March 2011, to which the financial information relates, have covered by that licence.
been delivered to the registrar of Companies.
Scope of the regulatory accounting statements The auditors have made a report under Section 495 of the These DN regulatory accounting statements are for National Companies Act 2006 on those statutory accounts which was Grid Gas and its DN business, which comprises gas distribution unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section and metering.
We also prepare and publish regulatory 498 2 or 3 of the Act.
The auditors opinion on the Companys accounting statements for our NTS business, including LNG statutory accounts is addressed to, and for the benefit of, the storage.
Together, these two sets of regulatory accounting members of the Company and not for any other person or statements comprise all the businesses and activities of purpose.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their opinion on National Grid Gas.
those statutory accounts, that it has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with The regulatory gas distribution and metering businesses Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no included in these regulatory accounting statements differ in other purpose.
In giving their opinion, they do not accept or certain respects from the gas distribution and metering assume responsibility for any other purposes or to any other operating segments reported in the Companys annual report person to whom their audit report on the statutory accounts is and accounts.
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Content of the regulatory accounting statements agreed by their prior consent in writing.
In accordance with the licence and as agreed with the Gas and The statutory accounts of the Company, and of the ultimate Electricity Markets Authority GEMA, these regulatory parent company National Grid plc National Grid, can be accounting statements comprise: obtained from the Company Secretarys Office, National Grid An Operating and financial review for the Company as a plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH, and from the website whole including information on the financial performance of National Grid plc at www.
and financial position of our DN business.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements A Directors report in respect of the Company as a whole These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary A Corporate governance statement in respect of our apportionments of certain revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and regulatory gas distribution and metering businesses.
shareholders equity of the Company which are not specifically A Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing attributable to the regulatory businesses and activities reported regulatory accounting statements in these regulatory accounting statements, but which, The Independent auditors report on the regulatory nevertheless, we are required to report against those accounting statements.
This is separate to their report on businesses and activities.
Further details of these items are the annual report and accounts of the Company.
provided in the Basis of preparation on page 34 to 35.
Consolidated financial statements for the Company as a whole, including additional accounting policies in respect of the basis of preparation of the supplementary analyses included in these regulatory accounting statements.
Supplementary analysis of the financial statements by regulatory business, including a reconciliation to the financial statements for the Company as a whole and certain information, which, in accordance with the licence, is provided only to GEMA and is not published.
