National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 31 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are obliged by Standard Special Condition A30 of The Directors have responsibility to ensure that the regulatory the Companys DN Gas Transporter Licence to prepare accounting statements show separately and in appropriate regulatory accounting statements for each financial period, detail the amounts of any revenues, costs, assets, liabilities, which comply with the requirements set out in Standard Special reserves or provisions that have been charged from or to any Condition A30, as amended by consents received from Ofgem.
other business of National Grid other than the Company or its subsidiaries, or that have been determined by apportionment, The Directors consider that, in preparing the regulatory where they relate to goods or services received or supplied for accounting statements, the Company has used appropriate the purposes of the regulatory businesses.
accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates and all The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps applicable accounting standards have been followed.
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and to prevent and to detect The Directors have responsibility for preparing the regulatory fraud and other irregularities.
accounting statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in The Directors, having prepared the regulatory accounting business.
Therefore, the regulatory accounting statements have statements, have requested the Auditors to take whatever steps been prepared on the going concern basis.
and to undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company report.
and its related undertakings keep accounting records in such a form that the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities, reserves and The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee of National Grid provisions of, or reasonably attributable to, each of the plc continues to review the adequacy of the system of internal regulatory businesses are separately identifiable in the books of financial controls adopted by the Company and its subsidiaries.
the Company and its related undertakings from those of any other business.
On behalf of the Board The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the regulatory accounting statements fairly present the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of, or reasonably attributable to, each regulatory business.
The Directors have responsibility to ensure that, so far as is Adam Wiltshire reasonably practicable, the regulatory accounting statements Director have the same content and format in respect of the businesses 27 July 2011 to which they relate as the equivalent statutory accounts of the Company and that they comply with all relevant accounting and reporting standards currently in force which have been issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The Directors have responsibility to ensure that the regulatory accounting statements include for each regulatory business and for the regulatory businesses in total, an income statement, a statement of changes in equity and, if appropriate, a statement of recognised income and expense, a balance sheet and a cash flow statement, including notes thereto.
The Directors also have responsibility to ensure that the regulatory accounting statements include, for the regulatory businesses in total, a statement of the accounting policies adopted, a corporate governance statement, a directors report and an operating and financial review.
The Directors have responsibility to ensure that the regulatory accounting statements include a reconciliation between the regulatory accounting statement and the statutory accounts of the Company.
