National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 27 Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2011 A.
Basis of preparation of consolidated financial C. Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of statements under IFRS the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates National Grid Gass principal activities involve the transmission of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are services within Great Britain.
The Company is a public limited denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing company incorporated and domiciled in England with its exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not registered office at 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets issue by the Board of Directors on 20 July 2011. and liabilities are included in the income statement.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards operations that have a functional currency different from the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Companys functional currency of sterling are translated at Board and as adopted by the European Union.
They are exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting standards and and expense items are translated at the weighted average interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are 2010 and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 classified as equity and transferred to the consolidated applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of translation reserve.
the European Union IAS regulation.
The 2010 comparative financial information has also been prepared on this basis.
D. Intangible assets The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of derivative accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
financial instruments and investments classified as available for Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, sale.
are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: These consolidated financial statements are presented in it is probable that the asset created will generate future pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset Company.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is The preparation of financial statements requires management recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal from these estimates.
amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: Amortisation periods Years B.
Basis of consolidation Software 3 to 5 The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in.
A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
accordance with accounting policy R. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to E. Property, plant and equipment obtain benefits from its activities.
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under UK generally accepted Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are accounting principles UK GAAP used in the individual financial directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and joint equipment as well as the cost of any associated asset ventures into line with those used by the Company in its retirement obligations.
consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
28 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been contractual rights of use.
Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, Material impairments are recognised in the income statement including capital expenditure for safety and environmental and are disclosed separately.
assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of G. Taxation existing assets.
Current tax Contributions from customers towards the cost of property, Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount plant and equipment received prior to 1 July 2009, together with expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation contributions towards the cost of relocating plant and authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the equipment, are included in trade and other payables as amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by deferred income and credited on a straight-line basis to the the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged or credited to the income statement over the estimated economic useful lives of income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items the assets to which they relate.
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In these cases the tax is also recognised in other Contributions from customers received post 1 July 2009 are comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
recognised in revenue immediately, except where the Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax contributions are consideration for a future service, in which returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax case they are recognised initially as deferred income and regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions revenue is subsequently recognised over the period in which where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid the service is provided.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the Deferred tax course of construction.
Other property, plant and equipment are Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability depreciated, principally on a straight-line basis, at rates method and is recognised on temporary differences between estimated to write off their book values over their estimated the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is computation of taxable profit.
given to any contractual arrangements and operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable determined by operational requirements, the depreciation temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised periods for the principal categories of property, plant and to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Depreciation periods Years temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a Plant and machinery transaction that affects neither the accounting profits nor the mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 taxable profits.
meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been F. Impairment of assets enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of equity.
In these cases the tax is also recognised in other the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each the impairment review is undertaken.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow Value in use represents the present value of expected future all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reflects current market assessments of the time value of money balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of become probable that future taxable profit will allow the future cash flows have not been adjusted.
deferred tax asset to be recovered.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 29 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a K. Segmental information legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against Segmental information is based on the information the Board of current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes Directors uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle performance of operating segments and determining resource current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The Board of Directors is deemed to be the chief operating decision-maker and H. Inventories assesses the performance of operations principally on the basis Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, of operating items before exceptionals and remeasurements.
are stated at cost less provision for damage and obsolescence.
Cost comprises cost of direct materials and those costs that L. Pensions have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present The substantial majority of the Companys employees are location and condition.
members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or I.
Environmental costs stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the Provision is made for environmental costs arising from past Scheme to the Company.
Accordingly, the Scheme is operations, based on future estimated expenditures, discounted recognised as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
Changes in the provision arising from revised pension charge for the year represents the contributions estimates or discount rates or changes in the expected timing of payable to the Scheme for the period.
A share of the assets and expenditures are recognised in the income statement.
The liabilities, or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme are unwinding of the discount is included within the income not recognised in these financial statements.
Revenue Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a Revenue represents the sales value derived from the straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services during the year including assessment of the N. Financial instruments value of services provided, but not invoiced at the year end.
It Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for this category or not classified in any other categories.
the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount permitted subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the overestablished for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to future evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an underdebtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or recovery.
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at The sales value for the provision of gas metering services is amortised cost.
largely derived from monthly charges for the provision of individual meters under contractual arrangements.
Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest income, Income arising from the sale of properties as a result of property together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables management activities, from the sale of emission allowances are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income and from the recovery of pension deficit from other gas statement.
transporters under regulatory arrangements is reported under other operating income Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus, in the case of available-for-sale financial investments, directly related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair value of investments classified as fair value through profit and loss are included in the income statement, while changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative 30 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant income statement for the period.
The techniques use observable market data.
available-for-sale investments is recognised using the effective O.
Hedge accounting interest rate method and taken through interest income in the The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative income statement.
financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds underlying business activities and the financing of those received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify statement using the effective interest rate method.
for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, or hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology construction of assets that necessarily take a substantial period used for effectiveness measurement.
The Company uses two of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to their cost.
Such additions cease when the assets are substantially ready Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments for their intended use.
that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any where the fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income derivative asset and where negative, as a derivative liability.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right to the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being value are included in the income statement in the period they hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the arise.
initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
No adjustment is made with respect to derivative clauses Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in closely related to those instruments or contracts.
In particular, the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in hedged.
These changes are recognised in the income the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
embedded derivative, which is closely related to the underlying Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in relationship between interest rates and inflation in the UK line with the hedged item.
Consequently these embedded derivatives are not Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
Where there hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as are embedded derivatives in host contracts not closely related, they arise, within finance costs.
the embedded derivative is separately accounted for as a derivative financial instrument and recorded at fair value.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently received, net of direct issue costs with an amount equal to the recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in nominal amount of the shares issued included in the share which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For capital account and the balance recorded in the share premium fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the account.
carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active effective interest rate method.
markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is fair values are determined using valuation techniques which are transferred to the income statement immediately.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 31 P. Share-based payments R. Emission allowances National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at Equity-settled, share-based payments are measured at fair the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is date of the equity-settled, share-based payments is expensed deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
recognised in the income statement in the period in which Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in Q.
Business performance and exceptional items which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
and remeasurements Income from emission allowances which are sold is reported as Our financial performance is analysed into two components: part of other operating income.
business performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
S. Cash and cash equivalents Business performance is used by management to monitor Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in financial performance, as it is considered to increase the hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an comparability of our reported financial performance from year to original maturity of less than three months that are readily year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the insignificant change in value.
Net cash and cash equivalents face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial reflected in the cash flow statement are net of bank overdrafts, statements.
which are reported in borrowings.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income T. Other reserves and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in financial performance and significantly distort the comparability 1999.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share of financial performance between periods.
capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable Items of income or expense that are considered by to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been management for designation as exceptional items include such disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
items as significant restructurings, write-downs, pension deficit payments or impairments of non-current assets, significant U.
Dividends changes in environmental provisions, and gains or losses on Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to disposals of businesses or investments.
Final dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to redundancy costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which an irrevocable commitment is made to incur the costs and the main features of the restructuring plan have been announced to affected employees.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
32 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 V. Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted earnings note 4.
The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy L. Hedge accounting accounting policy O.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 12, 15 and 27.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy J.
