National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 69 Company accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2011 Tangible fixed assets include assets in which the Companys A.
Basis of preparation of individual financial interest comprises legally protected statutory or contractual statements under UK GAAP rights of use.
These individual financial statements of the Company have Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting extensions to, or significant increases in, the capacity of and financial reporting standards and the Companies Act 2006. tangible fixed assets.
The individual financial statements of the Company have been Contributions received towards the cost of tangible fixed assets prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of are included in creditors as deferred income and credited on a financial instruments.
straight-line basis to the profit and loss account over the life of These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling the assets.
because that is the currency of the primary economic Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the environment in which the Company operates.
Other tangible fixed assets are The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account depreciated principally on a straight-line basis, at rates as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The estimated to write off their book values over their estimated Company has taken the exemption from preparing a cash flow useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised 1996 Cash Flow lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is Statements.
given to any contractual arrangements and operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise In accordance with exemptions under FRS 8 Related party determined by operational requirements, the depreciation disclosures, as the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of periods for the principal categories of tangible fixed assets are, National Grid plc whose consolidated financial statements are in general, as shown in the table below: publicly available, it has only disclosed related party transactions with companies which are not wholly owned by Depreciation periods Years National Grid plc.
Freehold and leasehold properties up to 50 Plant and machinery: Furthermore, in accordance with exemptions under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Company has not Mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 presented the financial instruments disclosures required by the Meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 standard, as disclosures which comply with the standard are Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 included in the consolidated financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements requires management D. Fixed asset investments to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent provisions for impairment.
Impairments are calculated such that assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and the carrying value of the fixed asset investment is the lower of expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ its cost or recoverable amount.
E. Impairment of fixed assets B.
Foreign currencies Impairments of fixed assets are calculated as the difference Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of between the carrying values of the net assets of income the Company are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing generating units, including where appropriate, investments, and on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, their recoverable amounts.
Recoverable amount is defined as monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign the higher of net realisable value or estimated value in use at currencies are retranslated at closing exchange rates.
Gains the date the impairment review is undertaken.
Net realisable and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and value represents the amount that can be generated through the liabilities are included in the profit and loss account.
Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis, using C. Tangible fixed assets the estimated cost of capital of the income generating unit.
Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at their cost less accumulated depreciation.
Costs include payroll costs Impairment reviews are carried out if there is some indication and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the that impairment may have occurred, or where otherwise construction of tangible fixed assets.
required to ensure that fixed assets are not carried above their 70 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 estimated recoverable amounts.
Impairments are recognised in K. Pensions the profit and loss account, and, where material, are disclosed The substantial majority of the Companys employees are as exceptional.
Impairment reversals are recognised when, in members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK managements opinion, the reversal is permanent.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the F. Taxation scheme to the Company.
Accordingly, the Scheme is Current tax for the current and prior periods is provided at the recognised in these Company financial statements as if it were amount expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted represents the contributions payable to the Scheme for the by the balance sheet date.
A share of the assets and liabilities or the actuarial gains Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result and losses of the Scheme are not recognised in these in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or Company financial statements.
the right to pay less tax, at a future date, at tax rates expected L. Leases to apply when the timing differences reverse, based on tax Operating lease payments are charged to the profit and loss rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in M. Financial instruments taxation computations in periods different from those in which Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax according to the substance of the contractual arrangements assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after and liabilities are not discounted.
deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
G. Stocks Stocks are stated at cost less provision for deterioration and Loans receivable are carried at amortised cost using the obsolescence.
effective interest rate method less any allowance for estimated impairments.
A provision is established for impairments when H. Environmental costs there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to Environmental costs, based on discounted future estimated collect all amounts due under the original terms of the loan.
expenditures expected to be incurred, are provided for in full.
Interest income, together with losses when the loans are The unwinding of the discount is included within the profit and impaired, is recognised on an effective interest rate basis in the loss account as a financing charge.
Revenue Current asset financial investments are recognised at fair value Revenue represents the sales value derived from the plus directly related incremental transaction costs and are transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
metering services during the year, including an assessment of Changes in the fair value of investments classified as availableservices provided, but not invoiced as at the year end.
It for-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
At this time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is Where revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount included in net profit or loss for the period.
Investment income permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be on investments classified as available-for-sale is recognised in made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the profit and loss account as it accrues.
the over-recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to future prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail an asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts are recorded at permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds under-recovery.
received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Subsequently, these are stated at amortised cost, using the J.
Replacement expenditure effective interest rate method.
Any difference between proceeds Replacement expenditure is recognised within operating costs and the redemption value is recognised over the term of the and represents the cost of planned maintenance of mains and borrowing in the profit and loss account using the effective services assets by replacing or lining sections of pipe.
expenditure is principally undertaken to repair and maintain the Derivative financial instruments derivatives are recorded at fair safety of the network and is written off as incurred.
Expenditure value, and where the fair value of a derivative is positive, it is that enhances the performance of mains and services assets is carried as a derivative asset and where negative, as a liability.
treated as an addition to tangible fixed assets.
Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 71 the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of initially retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a profit and loss account in the same periods in which the net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For fair value are included in the profit and loss account in the period they hedges the cumulative adjustment recorded to its carrying value arise.
at the date hedge accounting is discontinued is amortised to the profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method.
Where derivatives are embedded in other financial instruments that are closely related to those instruments, no adjustment is If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net made with respect to such derivative clauses.
Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the derivative is recorded separately at fair value on the balance profit and loss account immediately.
The fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value O.
Parent Company guarantees that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for The Company has guaranteed the repayment of the principal assets held and offer prices for issued liabilities.
When and any associated premium and interest on specific loans due independent prices are not available, fair values are determined from certain subsidiary undertakings to third parties.
In the by using valuation techniques which are consistent with event of default or non-performance by the subsidiary, the techniques commonly used by the relevant market.
The Company recognises such guarantees as insurance contracts, techniques use observable market data.
at fair value with a corresponding increase in the carrying value of the investment.
N. Hedge accounting The Company enters into derivative financial instruments P. Share-based payments derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments in order to National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures, with a certain employees of the Company.
Equity-settled share-based view to managing these risks associated with the Companys payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant based underlying business activities and the financing of those on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The principal derivatives used include interest rate This fair value is recognised on a straight-line basis over the swaps, forward rate agreements, currency swaps and forward vesting period, as an operating cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to Q.
Restructuring costs mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the profit and loss Costs arising from the Companys restructuring programmes account.
The Company uses two hedge accounting methods.
primarily relate to redundancy costs.
Redundancy costs are Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which the that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows Company becomes irrevocably committed to incurring the costs cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any and the main features of the restructuring plan have been ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and announced to affected employees.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow R. Emission allowances hedges are subsequently recognised in the profit and loss Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon account in the same period in which the hedged item affects net dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current profit or loss.
assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at Secondly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of that are designated as hedges of the changes in the fair value emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is of assets or liabilities fair value hedges are recognised in the deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
An offsetting amount is recorded as an Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are adjustment to the carrying value of hedged items, with a recognised in the income statement in the period in which corresponding entry in the profit and loss account, to the extent carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in that the change is attributable to the risk being hedged and that respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and the fair value hedge is effective.
charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the profit and loss account S. Dividends as they arise.
Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised in expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies the financial year in which they are approved.
At that time, any cumulative gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are
