125 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information RED receives an annual fee the CAP for Real Estate Assets provided by the RED to the MD.
The DPS determined the CAP value in an amount of EUR 3,600 thousand.
The CAP is annually adjusted by inflation and disposals of the Group entities.
MD division MDs core activities are mining and processing of coal Coal segment and coke production Coke segment.
MD has the right to access and usage of any Real Estate Assets as specified by the DPS for its operating activities.
There is no consideration required from the MD to repay the present value of the buildings provided in compliance with the DPS as would be usual under lease terms.
Therefore the respective amount i. e. the book value of the buildings provided to the MD as of 31 December 2011 is presented in the equity of the MD.
EUR000 2011 2010 Net book value of leased buildings and construction used by MD 229,406 261,212 The deferred tax assets, liabilities and their impacts on the financial result of the Group related to the Real Estate Assets are divided between the divisions correspondingly to the allocation of the assets.
b Division and segment accounting policies, measurement and disclosure The segment and division financial information is based on standalone financial statements of entities, prepared under adopted IFRS, including application of the DPS on the basis of the following policies: Sales and all transactions between division and segments are priced on arms length basis.
RED is obliged to provide certain buildings and construction to MD, if MD needs such assets for its operating activities.
The management considers this relationship between RED and MD as a finance lease relationship, because RED provides buildings and construction for remuneration to MD, the lease term is for the major part of the economic part of the life of the assets and the leased assets are of such specialised nature that only lessee can use them without major modifications.
However, there is no lease payment as under standard financial lease condition, only the CAP.
Land is provided to the MD without any consideration.
However, the adopted IFRS criteria for finance lease cannot be met for land.
Adopted IFRS does not provide a specific guideline for the presentation of such a relationship.
The Group decided to present this relationship in the segment analysis as a Right to use land Right granted by RED to the MD and RED has deferred revenue for granting the Right.
The management determined the original value of the Right being the book value of land at 31 December 2007.
Buildings and construction leased from RED are disclosed in book value, depreciated by the MD.
Real Estate Assets used by MD are presented within assets of MD: assets not used by the MD are presented in the assets of RED.
The land used by the MD is in the accounts of the RED.
It is replaced by the Right to use land in the accounts of the MD, amortisation of which is reflected in the result of the MD.
The Right is depleted over the expected lifetime of mining, coking and related businesses using a linear amortisation method.
When any building or construction is not needed by MD for its operating activities any more, the asset is transferred back to RED.
Since the respective buildings and construction are expected to be used for the major part of the economic life of the assets, they will generally be fully depreciated at the moment, when mining, coking and related operations stop in the future.
Therefore the transfer should include only fully depreciated assets with a zero book value.
IAS 16 assumes some residual value of assets which should be equal to its estimated market value at the end of its useful life.
However the Company is unable to make a reliable estimate of such residual value due to the character of the assets.
Deferred revenue corresponding to the amount of the Right is presented in the statement of position of the RED.
It will be released into revenues over the period correspondingly to the depletion of the Right.
The deferred revenue is disclosed within revenues of RED.
The CAP is accounted for as financial revenue in the RED and as financial expense in the MD.
The CAP amount is annually adjusted by inflation rate and by impact of changes in the Group.
The RED is allocated certain expenses related to revenues generated from sundry rentals.
The RED is also charged a fee by the MD for utilization of supporting internal functions audit, tax advisory, accounting, IT services etc..
The amount was capped to EUR 100 thousand in 2008.
The limit is subject to adjustment by inflation.
All Intercompany transactions are eliminated at appropriate level of segment or division.
Margin on inventory held, not yet consumed by the acquiring segment, is eliminated from the sales of the selling segment in such period, and the inventory value of the acquiring segment is adjusted correspondingly.
