118 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
iv Subsequent expenditure The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
v Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment, and major components that are accounted for separately.
Land and assets in construction are not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follow: Buildings 3045 years Plant and equipment 415 years Other 4 years Mining works are depreciated on a straight-line basis based on their estimated useful life.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date.
g Intangible assets i Licenses Licenses represent the coal reserve license owned by OKD.
The coal reserve is the exclusive deposit and creates the mineral wealth of the Czech Republic and the licenses allow OKD to extract coal from this deposit.
Licences are stated at cost less amortisation and impairment losses.
ii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
iii Amortisation Amortisation of licences for the period is calculated as a proportion of the coal amount actually mined in this period to the total economically exploitable coal reserves as estimated by management.
Amortisation of other intangible assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date.
iv Emission rights Emission rights represent the right of the owner of a facility, which in the course of its operation emits greenhouse gases, to emit during the calendar year an equivalent of one tonne of carbon dioxide CO. 2 Based on the Czech Republic National Allocation Plan covering the period up to 31 December 2012, emission rights are granted to the Group, for its coking production, free of charge.
Distribution of emission rights for free is planned also in the next National Allocation Plan covering period 20132020.
Emission rights are accounted for using the net liability method EFRAG.
Under this method, emission rights allocated from the Government are measured at their nominal amount, which is nil.
