163 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information OKKs assets include the grounds of the former Trojice coking plant in Slezsk Ostrava.
These grounds were classified as an old source of environmental burden and an Old environmental burden risk analysis is being drafted for it.
Decontamination of the grounds is contingent on the conclusion of an addendum to Contract No.
The entity operates the grounds of the Svoboda and verma coking plants for which risk analyses are being drafted to address post-operations improvement work.
The exact time-frame, percentage share of the state in eradicating past damage and the value and duration of the contingent liabilities accrual are not yet known.
In 2008, all fixed assets with above mentioned environmental issues were concentrated in OKK by a merger of OKK and NWR Coking, a. s c Claims and litigations OKD have been claimed against for unfounded enrichment by Mr. Otakar ern in relation to Improvement proposal no.
31 5-15 95 in total value of CZK 1.087 billion approx.
The first hearing was held on 18 January 2012, when the petition was partially rejected by the court and the proceeding was suspended until a similar dispute led by the Regional Court in Ostrava is settled.
OKD believes that the claim is unjustified and will be dismissed by the courts.
Litigation is pending against OKD as successor entity regarding the review of the adequacy of the consideration for shares of MD, a. s. paid out to minority shareholders constituting at the time 5.915% of the shareholders of the company in a squeeze-out procedure relating to MD, a. s. If the courts decided in the claimants favour, the judgment would ensure to the benefit of all minority shareholders subject to the squeeze-out procedure.
The proceeding is still pending, and the potential impact of a decision in the claimants favour is impossible to assess given that the consideration is subject to review.
The Group is involved in other, less material, litigation claims.
As inherent in such proceedings, outcomes cannot be predicted with certainty and there is a risk of unfavourable outcomes to the Group.
The Group disputes all pending and threatened litigation claims of which it is aware and which it considers unjustified.
No provision has been set up as of 31 December 2011 for the litigations.
At the date of this financial statements, based on advise of counsel, the management of the Group believes that the litigations have no significant impact on the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2011.
Other material matters Restrictions on the Companys ability to pay dividends The indenture governing the 7.375% Senior Notes due 2015 and 7.875% Senior Notes due 2018 impose restrictions on the Companys ability to pay dividends.
Generally the Company may not pay dividends or make other restricted payments, which exceed, in the aggregate, 50% of consolidated net income since 1 April 2007 such amounts are accrued on a quarterly basis plus the net proceeds from the primary tranche of the 2008 IPO and certain other adjustments the restricted payment buildup capacity.
The purchase price for investments in entities other than majority owned subsidiaries would also constitute restricted payments.
The restricted payment basket as defined by the 7.375% and the 7.875% Indentures governing the notes amounted to approximately EUR 116,962 thousand as at 31 December 2011.
Subsequent events Following the payment of the 2011 interim dividend of EUR 0.16 per A share, paid on 30 September 2011, the Directors have declared a final dividend of EUR 0.07 per A share in respect of the six month period ended 31 December 2011, making a total dividend for the year 2011 of EUR 0.23 per A share.
