92 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Material contracts Hedging arrangements with electricity and distribution services Co-operation agreement between RPGI The Group is party to certain interest up to 1 April 2009.
In addition, OKK and and Ferrexpo Plc rate hedging arrangements to mitigate Dalkia were already, prior to closing, In October 2008, RPGI, a member of the interest rate risks.
The Group is also party to an agreement pursuant to which BXR Group, purchased a shareholding of party to certain foreign currency hedging OKK supplied Dalkia with coking gas and 25 per cent minus one share in Ferrexpo arrangements to mitigate foreign currency Dalkia supplied OKK with heat and OKD Plc Ferrexpo, a Ukrainian iron ore risks resulting from operational costs and NWR NV were parties to an agreement company the Ferrexpo Transaction.
outflow in Czech Koruna and Polish Zloty.
pursuant to which Dalkia, through NWR In connection with the Ferrexpo NV, supplied the SA mine with heat.
Transaction, Ferrexpos controlling Sale of energy business shareholder Fevamotinico Sarl, a company NWR NV entered into a share sale and In connection with the consummation incorporated with limited liability in purchase agreement with Dalkia esk of the sale of the energy business to Luxembourg Fevamotinico and RPGI republika, a. s. Dalkia on 8 January 2010, Dalkia the Framework Agreement and entered into an agreement in which the which provided for the sale by NWR NV certain agreements implementing it were parties agreed to pursue a strategic to Dalkia of 100 per cent of the ownership amended to reflect agreed commercial alliance whereby RPGI and Fevamotinico in NWR Energy, a. s. NWR Energy, terms.
The Framework Agreement, as would seek to find areas in which they CZECH-KARBON, s. r. o. CZECH-KARBON amended, will terminate on 31 December could work together to develop their and NWR ENERGETYKA PL Sp.
2029, subject to an option in favour of respective businesses in Central and together referred to as the Energy OKD to extend the Framework Agreement Eastern Europe.
As part of such strategic Subsidiaries, which successfully closed for an additional five year period.
alliance, RPGI and Fevamotinico agreed on 21 June 2010.
Dalkia is a leading OKD is obliged, among other things, to to ask NWR NV and Ferrexpo, respectively, energy group in the Czech Republic as supply NWR Energy with certain raw to consider working together to explore a heat producer and distributor and is materials coal, coke and water used strategic opportunities to develop a member of the Veolia Environment in the production of the utilities and to business together in Ukraine, the Czech Group.
purchase energy utilities mainly heat Republic, Poland and other territories.
and compressed air and electricity A further aspect of the strategic alliance The Share Purchase Agreement distribution services from NWR Energy was for each of RPGI and Fevamotinico to the SPA provides for put and call and electric power from CZECH-KARBON: nominate persons to be appointed to the options, as well as a pre-emption right NWR Energy and CZECH-KARBON are board of directors of the others affiliate, of NWR NV, in respect of the energy obliged, among other things, to deliver being NWR NV and Ferrexpo respectively.
assets and businesses transferred to the utilities to OKD in the requested Miklos Mike Salamon, the Executive Dalkia or replacing such energy assets volumes subject to technical minimum Chairman of NWR NV, and Marek Jelnek, or businesses upon the occurrence of and maximum amounts at agreed prices.
the Executive Director and Chief Financial certain events.
The pricing mechanism for supplies under Officer of NWR NV, were appointed as the amended Framework Agreement non-executive directors of Ferrexpo, and Before the closing of the sale, the Energy in respect of raw materials, utilities, Kostyantin Zhevago, the Chief Executive Subsidiaries supplied the utilities in services and relevant leases will be Officer of Ferrexpo, was appointed as particular the supply and distribution of applicable over the entire duration of the a Non-Executive Director of NWR NV.
electricity and the production, supply and amended Framework Agreement Mr. Jelnek retired from the board of distribution of heat, compressed air and on arms-length terms.
Dalkia has Ferrexpo in May 2010.
In connection bathroom water to OKD, primarily through acceded to the rights and obligations with the UK reincorporation Mr. Zhevago a framework agreement on supplies and of NWR Energy and CZECH-KARBON resigned from the board of NWR NV services between OKD, NWR Energy and arising under the amended Framework and was appointed as a Non-Executive CZECH-KARBON, dated 27 November 2008 Agreement and under implementation Director of NWR with the effect from the Framework Agreement, although agreements relating to the same.
The 6 May 2011. certain other supplies were also made to company NWR Energy was renamed to OKD and other affiliates.
The Framework the new name Dalkia Industry CZ, a. s. on Agreement on ICT services Agreement was initially entered into in the date 24 June 2010 and the company On 29 April 2010, OKD, as client, connection with the reorganisation of the CZECH-KARBON was renamed to the new HEWLETT-PACKARD s. r. o. and Siemens IT energy business to provide a framework name Dalkia Commodities CZ, a. s. on the Solutions and Services, s. r. o. for the independent operation and date 1 August 2011. now Atos IT Solutions and Services, s. r. o., arms-length pricing of energy services.
as suppliers, concluded an Agreement NWR Karbonia supplied CZECH-KARBON on ICT Services.
