120 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or CGU and for such a non-financial asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of impairment Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
ii Non-derivative financial assets A non-derivative financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired.
A non-derivative financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably.
Objective evidence that non-derivative financial assets are impaired can include default or delinquency by a debtor, restructuring of an amount due by a debtor on terms that would not be considered otherwise by the Group, indications that a debtor or issuer will enter bankruptcy, economic conditions that correlate with defaults or the disappearance of an active market for a security.
Loans and receivables The Group considers evidence of impairment for loans and receivables at both a specific asset and collective level.
All individually significant receivables are assessed for specific impairment.
All individually significant loans and receivables found not to be specifically impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred but not yet identified.
Loans and receivables that are not individually significant are collectively assessed for impairment by grouping together loans and receivables with similar risk characteristics.
In assessing collective impairment the following information is used historical trends of the probability of default, the timing of recoveries and the amount of loss incurred, adjusted for managements judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are likely to be greater or less than suggested by historical trends.
An impairment loss in respect of a non-derivative financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Losses are recognised in income statement and reflected in an allowance accounts against loans and receivables.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of loans and receivables is calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted to their present value using the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Loans and receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
Reversals of impairment When a subsequent event e. g. repayment by a debtor causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of loans and receivables carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
m Non-controlling interest The non-controlling interest in the statement of financial position and income statement represents the non-controlling proportion of the net assets of the consolidated but not wholly owned subsidiaries at the year-end and a share of results for the year, which is attributable to the non-controlling shareholders.
