167 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Notes to the Company financials statements For period ended 31 December 2011 A General information a Corporate Information New World Resources Plc the Company, NWR Plc is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
Its registered office is One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom.
The Company was incorporated on 30 March 2011. b Statement of compliance The financial statements are prepared based on the recognition and measurement principles of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
c Basis of preparation The Company financial statements are prepared for the period from incorporation 30 March 2011 to 31 December 2011.
Starting from 2012 the accounting period will follow the calendar year.
The financial statements are presented in Euros EUR, which is the functional currency of the Company and rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
B Principal accounting policies The Company follows the accounting policies of the Group NWR Plc and its subsidiaries as described in the note 2 Summary of significant accounting policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements of this document.
a Investments Fixed assets investments are carried at cost less impairment provisions.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Where the Company issues shares to acquire an interest in a subsidiary and section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 applies, the investment is recorded at the nominal value of shares issued plus the fair value of other consideration paid.
b Share-based payment transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date and is recognised as an expense for employees working for the Company and as an addition to the cost of the investment in the subsidiary in which the relevant employees work over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
The fair value is determined by reference to the share price on the grant date.
In valuing equity-settled transactions of the Company, no account is taken of any vesting conditions because no market conditions apply for vesting.
At each balance sheet date, before the end of the vesting period, the cumulative expense is calculated, reflecting the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of equity instruments that is expected to ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense compared to the previous balance sheet date is recognised as personnel expense in the income statement or as an addition to the cost of the investment in the balance sheet, with a corresponding entry in equity or liability, based on the type of share-based scheme.
