117 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information f Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset including borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost also includes the estimated cost of dismantling and removing the asset and restoring the site, to the extent that it is initially recognised as a provision under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Mining works are classified under the Land and Buildings class of property, plant and equipment.
They are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Once approved, expenditure relating to a mining project that is designed to access a new mine level or to construction of new mining works cross cuts, blind shafts, storage places, bins and mining depots, other auxiliary constructions etc.
are capitalised only if both following conditions are satisfied: mining work has useful life exceeding one year and such construction is necessary for accessing the new mining level.
These expenditures are capitalised and classified as construction in progress and the capitalisation ceases when the constructed mining work is finalised and ready for use.
These costs are reclassified as land and buildings and depreciated from when the project is complete.
Expenditure for technical improvement of mining works are capitalised, even if they are not related to accessing a new mine level, but they represent a technical improvement of existing mining works.
Other mine development costs related to construction of undersurface located supporting structures operational mining works are expensed as incurred.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
ii Borrowing costs Borrowing costs from specifically draw down borrowings or generally used borrowings, which are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
iii Leased assets The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease involves an assessment based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use an asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: b a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term: c there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependant on a specified asset: or d there is a substantial change to the asset.
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting shall commence or cease from the date when the change in circumstances gives rise to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b.
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits related to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
