124 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued A deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted in the expected period of settlement of deferred tax.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
u Segment reporting An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance and for which discrete financial information is available.
v Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale or upon disposal, if earlier.
w Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
Segment information a Introduction to segment information The Groups business is organised into three segments Coal, Coke and Real Estate Division RED segment for which financial and other performance measures are separately available and regularly evaluated by the chief operating decision maker CODM.
The CODM is the Board of Directors.
These operational segments were identified based on the nature, performance and financial effects of key business activities of the Group.
The Group is furthermore organised into two divisions: the Mining Division MD and the Real Estate Division.
The Company had A Shares and B Shares outstanding for the presented periods.
The A Shares and B Shares are tracking stocks, which are designed to reflect the financial performance and economic value of the MD and RED, respectively.
Due to the public listing of the Companys A shares, the Group provides divisional reporting showing separately the performance of the MD and RED.
The main rights, obligations and relations between the RED and MD are covered by Divisional Policy Statement DPS.
The divisional reporting, as such, is essential for the evaluation of the equity attributable to the listed part of the Group.
As the operating segments form part of the divisions and in order to provide understandable and useful information, the Company decided to combine the segment and divisional disclosure in one table, with the Coal and Coke segments within the Mining Division and the RED segment within Real Estate Division.
Headquarters cost are included within other within the Mining Division.
The comparative period includes a separate electricity trading segment within discontinued operations and the electricity distribution business within the continuing operations as part of other.
The energy business was sold on 21 June 2010.
RED segment The RED mainly provides inter-divisional service i. e. provides real estates to MD and concentrates ownership of certain assets, so called Real Estate Assets buildings, surface construction and land, defined by the DPS.
This group of Real Estate Assets was allocated to RED based on their book values as of 31 December 2007 when the divisional segments were established.
