116 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued e Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as for example forward currency contracts, interest rate swap and interest rate collar contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest risk.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to fair value.
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting and the ineffective portion of an effective hedge, are taken to the income statement.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap and interest rate collar contracts is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the contract at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedges items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designed.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Cash flow hedges The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly as other comprehensive income in the hedging reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts recognised as other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged forecasted sale or expenditure occurs.
If the forecasted transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income remain in other comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction or firm commitment occurs.
Current versus non-current classification Derivative instruments that are not a designated as effective hedging instrument are classified as current or non-current or separated into a current and non-current portion based on an assessment of the facts and circumstances i. e. the underlying contracted cash flows.
Where the Group will hold a derivative as an economic hedge and does not apply hedge accounting, for a period beyond 12 months after the reporting date, the derivative is classified as non-current or separated into current and non-current portions consistent with the classification of the underlying item.
Derivative instruments that are designated as and are effective hedging instruments are classified consistently with the classification of the underlying hedged item.
The derivative instrument is separated into a current portion and non-current portion only if a reliable allocation can be made.
