113 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information All of the Companys consolidated subsidiaries are incorporated in the Czech Republic, with the exception of NWR Karbonia Poland and NWR NV The Netherlands.
c Changes in the consolidated group i Business combination involving entities under common control A business combination involving entities or businesses under common control is a business combination in which all of the Group entities or businesses are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties both before and after the business combination, and that control is not transitory.
In the absence of more specific guidance, the Group entities consistently applied the book value measurement method to all common control transactions.
Differences between consideration paid and carrying value of acquired net assets is recognised as a change in consolidated equity.
The carrying amounts of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interest are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
ii Changes in 2011 A new subsidiary NWR Communications, s. r. o. was established on 6 June 2011 to perform public relations and communication activities.
New World Resources Plc was incorporated on 30 March 2011 as part of a corporate reorganisation under which it became the new UK incorporated holding company for the businesses previously held by New World Resources N. V. For more details see Corporate information and Note 22. iii Discontinued operations and sale of the energy business On 24 June 2009 the Board of Directors of NWR NV approved its intention to sell the energy business of the Group.
The energy business of the Group comprised NWR Energy, a. s. NWR Energetyka PL Sp.
Based on the Boards decision to sell the energy business, part of the energy business, which historically was presented as the electricity trading segment, is presented as discontinued operations in comparatives of these financial statements.
The sale was closed on 21 June 2010.
For further details see Note 8.
Summary of significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
In accordance with these requirements, the Companys consolidated financial results and financial position prior to date the Company became the new holding company of the Group are those of NWR NV.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, which are stated at their fair value.
They are presented in Euro EUR and rounded to the nearest thousand.
Financial statements of operations with functional currency other than EUR were translated to the Group presentation currency.
The functional currency of NWR Plc and NWR NV is EUR.
The functional currency of NWR Karbonia is Polish Zloty PLN.
The functional currency of the remaining consolidated companies is Czech Crown CZK.
For details refer to the Note 2d ii.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
New standards and interpretations adopted during the financial year The accounting policies used in preparation of these financial statements are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
The following new and amended standards and interpretations have been adopted: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures amendment effective 1 January 2011 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendment effective 1 February 2010 IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement amendment effective 1 January 2011 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective 1 July 2010
