123 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the customer: the Group has retained neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
All these conditions are generally satisfied, when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer and as such, the title passes to the customer.
Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustments based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
Where there are agreed differences in volume or quality of delivered products, this is reflected as reduction or increase usually for better qualities of coal in sales revenue recognised on the sale transaction.
Sales revenue from services rendered is recognised when services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
ii Revenues from electricity contracts Revenues from electricity contracts were classified as discontinued operations.
For the period 1 January21 June 2010 the Group concluded sale and purchase contracts for physical delivery of specified commodities defined quantity of electricity over the counter and through energy exchanges.
These transactions were classified as an own use category with physical receipt or delivery of the commodity at inception and were not within the scope of IAS 39.
Revenues from realised electricity sales were recognised in the income statement, net of value added tax and excise duties, based on actual deliveries and when the significant risks and rewards of ownership were transferred to the buyer in line with the contract conditions.
iii Government grants Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal annual installments.
t Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
ii Net finance costs Net finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses, and gains and losses on derivative instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest on borrowings is expensed only to the extent that they are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
The finance income is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method which uses the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
iii Income tax Income tax on the profit and loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
A current tax liability is calculated in accordance with the tax regulations of the states of residence of the Group companies and is based on the income or loss reported under local accounting regulations, adjusted for appropriate permanent and temporary differences from taxable income.
Income taxes are calculated on an individual company basis as the tax laws do not permit consolidated tax returns.
