177 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Glossary B Benzole absorption cooler, or benzole purchased coking coal.
The main line Extraction: the process of mining and washing unit: an apparatus designed to items are the consumption of material removal of coal or ore from a mine.
absorb benzole from the coke oven gas and energy, services, personnel and other using washing oil.
It does not include EXW ex works: a trade term requiring Depreciation and Amortisation.
the seller to deliver goods at his or Benzole washing unit, or benzole her own place of business.
All other absorption cooler: an apparatus designed Coking coal: high volatility coal used to transportation costs and risks are to absorb benzole from the coke oven gas create coke, which is consumed in the assumed by the buyer.
using washing oil steel reduction process.
F Benzole stripping column: a still Continuous Improvement Programme: Foundry coke: coke used in furnaces to distillation column, also commonly short form CIP, NWRs programme produce cast and ductile iron products.
It referred to as a benzole stripper.
The to improve efficiency by rewarding is a source of heat and also helps maintain apparatus is used to remove benzole from employees who submit innovative ideas the required carbon content of the metal the washing oil by means of steam.
Foundry coke production requires lower temperatures and longer times than Blast furnace coke: coke used to power COP 2010: NWRs Coking Plant Optimisation blast furnace coke.
This coke must have a high Programme, a capital investment strength to support heavy loads in the programme designed to improve the FTSE 250: a  index blast furnace without disintegration.
Also productivity of its coking operation.
of 250 UK domiciled companies on the known as metallurgical coke.
D Brownfield sites: abandoned or underused Deposit: refers to an area of coal resources FTSE 350 Mining: a capitalisation industrial and commercial facilities or reserves identified by surface mapping, weighted index of 350 UK domiciled available for re use.
mining companies on the London Stock Exchange.
By-product: material other than the principal Detailed Feasibility Study: a study to product generated by an industrial process.
determine definitively whether to proceed G with the project, which will provide the GDP: Gross Domestic Product, the total Box-cut: a small open cut created to budget figures for the project.
Detailed value of all goods and services produced in provide a secure and safe portal as access feasibility studies require a significant a particular economy.
to a decline to an underground mine.. amount of formal engineering work.
Greenfield sites: undeveloped land C E in a city or rural area either used for CAGR: Compound Annual Growth Rate, Environmental impact assessment: agriculture, landscape design, or left to number that describes the steady rate at short form EIA is a procedure that ensures naturally evolve.
These areas of land are which the initial value would have to grow that the environmental implications of usually agricultural or amenity properties every year to achieve the specific end decisions are taken into account before being considered for urban development.
Environmental assessment can be undertaken for H Coal: a readily combustible rock, formed individual projects on the basis of Directive Hard coal: another name for anthracite, from plant remains that have been 85 337 EEC, as amended known as the coal with the highest level of carbon compacted, chemically altered and Environmental Impact Assessment and the lowest level of impurities.
Both metamorphosed by heat and pressure over EIA Directive.
metallurgical coking coal and thermal coal millions of years.
Emerging Europe: refers to European Coke: the solid carbonaceous material derived countries that are in the process of growth Hard coking coal: refers to a type of coking from the destructive distillation of coal.
coal which enables the coke to be more efficient in steel making when it converts Coke conversion costs: reflects the Emission: pollution discharged into the iron ore to raw steel.
operating costs incurred in converting atmosphere by commercial or industrial coking coal into coke.
It does not include facilities, or by motor vehicle, locomotive J the cost of internally or externally or aircraft exhausts.
JORC: the Joint Ore Reserves Committee.
178 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Glossary K R Kt: kilotonne, one thousand 1,000 metric Mt: one million 1,000,000 tonnes.
Reclamation: the restoration of land and tonnes.
environmental value to a surface mine site N after the coal is extracted.
Reclamation L NOx: gases that are oxides of nitrogen.
operations usually get underway as soon Longwall mining: a fully mechanised as the coal has been removed from a mine underground mining technique in which O site.
The process includes restoring a coal face is excavated by a shearer OECD: Organisation for Economic the land to its approximate original and then transported to the surface by Co-operation and Development, an appearance by restoring topsoil and conveyor belt.
organisation that acts as a meeting ground planting native grasses and ground covers.
for 30 countries which believe in the free LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate market system and provides a forum for RFID: Radio Frequency Identification, represents the number of reportable discussing issues and reaching agreements, a data collection technology that uses injuries causing at least three days of some of which are legally binding.
electronic tags for storing data.
absence per million hours worked.
Open-pit mining: mining in which the coal Reserves: those parts of mineral resources is extracted after removing the overlying for which sufficient information is M strata or overburden.
available to enable detailed or conceptual M1 category: equipment classified under mine planning and for which such planning the M1 category may be operated, unlike P has been undertaken.
Reserves are M2 category equipment, under conditions Preparation plant: a plant used to make raw classified as either proved or probable.
of increased methane concentrations, coal a product suitable for a particular use.
That allows the Resources: all of the potential minerals controller to maintain a continuous oversight Project: a mineral deposit with insufficient in a defined area based on points of of the presence and movement of employees data available on the mineralisation to observation and extrapolations from those within monitored areas of the mine.
Being determine if it is economically recoverable, points.
Potential minerals are defined fitted with an accumulator and a battery, the but warranting further investigation and as minerals which have been or could be equipment remains operational even during not currently included in the Groups future beneficiated to give a quality acceptable for a power-supply failure.
commercial usage in the foreseeable future and excludes minor mineral occurrences.
Metallurgical coal: an informally recognised POP 2010: NWRs Productivity Optimisation name for bituminous coal that is suitable Programme, a major capital investment Redomiciliation reincorporation: for making coke by industries that refine, programme designed to improve the the process by which a company moves its smelt and work with iron.
Generally, this productivity of its mines.
domicile from one jurisdiction to another coal will have less than 1 per cent sulphur by changing the country under whose laws and less than 8 per cent ash on an air-dried PCI: Pulverised Coal Injection.
PCI is injected it is registered or incorporated, whilst basis.
Metallurgical coal is sometimes into a blast furnace as a supplementary maintaining the same legal identity.
referred to as coking coal.
fuel to reduce the amount of coke consumed, having a knock on effect on S Mining face: the working area where reducing operating costs in the production Seam: a geological structure containing the extraction of coal takes place in an of pig iron, and ultimately crude steel.
a series of layers of coal, shale and other underground mine.
mineral materials of varying thicknesses.
PERSPective 2015 programme: short Mining licence: permission to mine form PERSP 2015 is NWRs programme Shaft: a mine working usually vertical used minerals from a mineral rights area.
to maximise the returns on our recent to transport miners, supplies, ore and waste.
investments in state of the art technology Mining unit cash costs: reflect the operating and health and safety.
The plan focuses Sludge: high ash reject material from the fine costs incurred in the Coal Segment for on five main areas: People, Efficiency, coal washing circuits that can be recovered mining both coking coal and thermal coal.
and re-processed to sell as additional coal by blending it with other products.
The main line items are the consumption of Q material and energy, services, personnel and Quenching tower: water spraying tower Steam coal: coal that will be used for other operating expenses.
It does not include for cooling coke after it emerges from the steam generation principally in thermal Depreciation and Amortisation.
179 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information T Tectonic stress release: the result of energy releases in the mass of rock from the creation of empty underground spaces.
The rock is stressed by the extraction of ore, pressure is created in it and energy is accumulated, which can be released in an instant by a rockfall.
Bumps and slides occur mainly in saddle seams, where there is solid overlying rock.
Thermal coal: coal used in combustion processes by power producers and industrial users to produce steam for power and heat.
Tonne: a metric tonne, a measure of mass equal to one thousand 1,000 kilogrammes or approximately two thousand, two hundred and five 2,205 pounds.
U Underground mining: the extraction of coal or its products from layers of rock by underground mining methods such as room-and-pillar mining and longwall mining.
Upper Silesian Basin: a coal basin in Silesia in Poland and the Czech Republic.
The area contains a number of mineable resources including lead, silver and zinc: and resources of coal reach depths of 1000 metres below ground, approximately seventy 70 billion tonnes of coal.
UHF tags: a RFID tag that works in a portion of the ultra high frequency UHF range.
