112 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
General information a Corporate information New World Resources Plc NWR Plc or the Company is a public limited liability company with its registered office at One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom.
The Company was incorporated on 30 March 2011 as part of a corporate reorganisation under which it became the new UK incorporated holding company for the businesses previously held by New World Resources N. V. NWR NV.
The reorganisation was undertaken by way of an offer by the Company to the shareholders of NWR NV to exchange shares in the Company for their shares in NWR NV on a one-for-one basis.
The condition of the offer relating to acceptances was met on 5 May 2011 the first closing date and the Company became the new holding company when it issued shares to accepting shareholders of NWR NV on 6 May 2011.
At that date the Company held approximately 97.0% of the A shares of NWR NV and 100% of its B shares.
The A shares of NWR NV that were not tendered into the offer at that date represented a non-controlling interest in NWR NV, that was decreased by additional closings and private share-for-share exchange to 0.22% as at 31 December 2011.
The Company is currently in the process of a compulsory squeeze-out under which it intends to acquire the remaining shares in NWR NV.
In accordance with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by European Union, the Companys consolidated financial results and financial position prior to the first closing date are those of NWR NV.
The objective of the Company is to act as a holding company for the Group.
BXR Mining B. V. an investment, public limited company, is the major shareholder of the Company, holding approximately 64% of the Companys A shares.
100% of the Companys B shares are owned by RPG Property B. V. The financial information of the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of RPG Partners Limited.
A shares of the Company are listed on stock exchanges in London, Warsaw and Prague, with NWR NVs A shares still listed on stock exchange in Warsaw.
The ultimate parent of the Company, BXR Mining B. V. RPG Property B. V. and RPG Partners Limited is BXR Group Limited.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 12 March 2012. b The Group The consolidated financial statements include New World Resources Plc and its subsidiaries together the Group.
The Companys significant subsidiaries as at 31 December 2011 are: Consolidated subsidiaries Abbreviation % voting shares Nature of Activity Entity directly owned by the Company: New World Resources N. V. NWR NV 99.8 % Management services Entities directly owned by NWR NV: OKD, a. s. OKD 100 % Coal mining OKK Koksovny, a. s. OKK 100 % Coke production NWR KARBONIA S. A. NWR Karbonia 100 % Coal mining NWR Communications, s. r. o. NWRC 100 % Public relations Entity directly owned by OKD: OKD, HBZS, a. s. HBZS 100 % Emergency services and waste processing For changes in the Group during the periods presented see Changes in the consolidated group on the next page.
NWR Karbonia changed its legal form from limited liability company Sp.
z o. o. to joint-stock company S. A..
The change was registered in Commercial register on 28 February 2011.
