144 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2011 17.
Financial instruments and risk management continued The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant see Note 16.
For OKD, representing the main part of the Groups receivables, the Chief Commercial Officer is responsible for the customer management database, systematic monitoring of customers, their ratings and corresponding risks.
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets of the Group, which comprise of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and certain derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments, which is stated in the table at the end of this Note.
There was no impairment of financial assets other than trade receivables recognised as of 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 see note 16.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the possibility of the Group being unable to meet its financial obligations, when they fall due, mainly in relation to the settlement of amounts due to suppliers, bondholders and financial institutions.
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using a recurring liquidity planning tool.
This tool considers the maturity of its financial investments, financial assets e. g. accounts receivables, other financial assets, financial liabilities and projected cash flows from operations.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts, bank loans, issued bonds and leases contracts with the aim to have sufficient liquidity to meet its due obligations under any conditions.
The Group values its business relationships.
It is the Groups policy to agree credit terms prior to commencement of trading.
Subject to any items of genuine dispute, it is Group policy to pay creditors within the terms agreed.
The table below summarizes the contractual maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 based on undiscounted payments including interest.
