119 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information v Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources Expenditures on exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources are charged to expenses as incurred, until the Group determines that commercially viable coal reserves exist.
h Trade and other receivables Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After initial measurement receivables are subsequently carried at their amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment see accounting policy 2l.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
i Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on a weighted average method and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories, the cost of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition.
The cost of merchandise is the acquisition cost on a weighted average basis.
The cost of raw materials is the purchase cost on a weighted average basis.
The cost of work-in-progress and finished goods is a standard cost based on the cost of direct materials and labour plus attributable production overheads based on a normal level of activity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and variable selling expenses.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits and investments in marketable securities that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturity of three months and less.
k Restricted cash Restricted balances of cash, which are shown under non-current financial assets as restricted funds, relate to funds set aside to settle mining damages and restoration expenses and deposits with manufacturers of equipment the Group has on order.
The current non-current classification is based on the expected timing of the release of the funds of the Group.
l Impairment i Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, excluding inventories see accounting policy i and deferred tax assets see accounting policy t iii, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of a non-financial asset or the cash-generating unit to which it belongs exceeds its recoverable amount.
A cash-generating unit CGU is the smallest identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that are largely independent from other non-financial assets and groups of assets.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGU are allocated to reduce the carrying amount of the assets in the CGU groups of CGU on a pro rata basis.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset or the CGU to which it belongs is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows generated by the asset or the CGU are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the non-financial assets or CGU.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped
