113 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information All of the Companys consolidated subsidiaries are incorporated in the Czech Republic, with the exception of NWR Karbonia Poland and NWR NV The Netherlands.
c Changes in the consolidated group i Business combination involving entities under common control A business combination involving entities or businesses under common control is a business combination in which all of the Group entities or businesses are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties both before and after the business combination, and that control is not transitory.
In the absence of more specific guidance, the Group entities consistently applied the book value measurement method to all common control transactions.
Differences between consideration paid and carrying value of acquired net assets is recognised as a change in consolidated equity.
The carrying amounts of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interest are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
ii Changes in 2011 A new subsidiary NWR Communications, s. r. o. was established on 6 June 2011 to perform public relations and communication activities.
New World Resources Plc was incorporated on 30 March 2011 as part of a corporate reorganisation under which it became the new UK incorporated holding company for the businesses previously held by New World Resources N. V. For more details see Corporate information and Note 22. iii Discontinued operations and sale of the energy business On 24 June 2009 the Board of Directors of NWR NV approved its intention to sell the energy business of the Group.
The energy business of the Group comprised NWR Energy, a. s. NWR Energetyka PL Sp.
Based on the Boards decision to sell the energy business, part of the energy business, which historically was presented as the electricity trading segment, is presented as discontinued operations in comparatives of these financial statements.
The sale was closed on 21 June 2010.
For further details see Note 8.
Summary of significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
In accordance with these requirements, the Companys consolidated financial results and financial position prior to date the Company became the new holding company of the Group are those of NWR NV.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, which are stated at their fair value.
They are presented in Euro EUR and rounded to the nearest thousand.
Financial statements of operations with functional currency other than EUR were translated to the Group presentation currency.
The functional currency of NWR Plc and NWR NV is EUR.
The functional currency of NWR Karbonia is Polish Zloty PLN.
The functional currency of the remaining consolidated companies is Czech Crown CZK.
For details refer to the Note 2d ii.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
New standards and interpretations adopted during the financial year The accounting policies used in preparation of these financial statements are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
The following new and amended standards and interpretations have been adopted: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures amendment effective 1 January 2011 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendment effective 1 February 2010 IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement amendment effective 1 January 2011 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective 1 July 2010 114 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Improvements to IFRS 2010 covering further minor amendments: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amendment effective 1 January 2011 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements amendment effective 1 July 2010 IFRS 3 Business Combinations amendment effective 1 July 2010 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures amendment effective 1 January 2011 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes amendment effective 1 January 2011 These amendments and new interpretations do not have an impact on the financial statements of the Group.
New standards and interpretations endorsed by the European Union but not effective yet The Group is currently assessing the potential impacts of the new and revised standards that have been issued but are not yet effective as at 31 December 2011.
The principal effects of these changes are as follows: Amendment to IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income effective 1 July 2012 Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Enhanced Derecognition Disclosure Requirements effective 1 July 2011 Both amendments affect disclosure and presentation only and as such have no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
Judgments, estimates and assumptions made in applying accounting policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Set out below is information about: Critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: and Assumption and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment within next financial year.
Critical judgments, estimates and assumptions Coal reserves Economically recoverable coal reserves represent the estimated quantity of product in an area of interests that can be expected to be profitably extracted, processed and sold under current and foreseeable economic conditions.
The entity determines and reports coal reserves under JORC code.
The determination of coal reserves includes estimates and assumptions about range of geological, technical and economic factors, including: quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, productions costs, transportation costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and exchange rates.
Changes in coal reserves impact the assessment of recoverability of property, plant and equipment, the carrying amount of mining licences depreciated on unit of production basis and mine closure and restoration provision.
The amounts of these assets and provision are set out in the notes 11, 12, 24.
Restoration and mine closure provisions Determining the cost of restoration, rehabilitation, and mine closure during mining activities in accordance with the Groups accounting policy note 2q, requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including: the appropriate discount rate, the timing of the cash flows, expected life of the relevant mine, the application of relevant environmental legislation, and the future expected costs of restoration, rehabilitation and mine closure.
Changes in the estimates and assumptions used to determine the cost of restoration, rehabilitation and mine closure could have a material impact on the carrying value of the restoration and mine closure provision and relevant asset.
The provision recognised for each mine is reviewed at each reporting date and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at that time.
The carrying value of the provision is set out in note 24.
Impairment of assets The recoverable amount of each non financial asset or cash-generating unit CGU is determined as the higher of the value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell, in accordance with the Groups accounting policy note 2l.
Determination of the recoverable amount of an
