122 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued q Provisions A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect of time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects a current market assessment of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Mine closure, restoration, and mining damages provisions An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mining property and the Group is liable for environmental damage caused by mining activities.
These future costs generally include restoration and remediation of land and disturbed areas, mine closure costs, including the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and the removal of residual materials, and mining damages costs.
Decommissioning of mine sites and land and disturbed areas restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining.
The majority of mine closure and rehabilitation expenditure is incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques.
Restoration costs and clean-up of land used for mining activities are liabilities to restore the land to the condition it was in prior to the mining activities or as stated in the relevant licences.
These costs are incurred during the mining activity and can continue for many years depending on the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques.
The mine closure costs include estimated costs of mine levels and pits closure, and capping of pits after removal of the surface construction.
Provisions for land restoration and mine closure costs are recognised as the net present value of the estimated outflow of economic resources to settle the obligation.
Provisions are structured as land restoration and mine closure costs provision.
Land restoration and mine closure costs represent a part of the acquisition cost of fixed assets and such assets are depreciated over the useful life of the mines using the linear depreciation method.
Any change in the estimate of restoration costs is recognised within fixed assets and is depreciated over the remaining useful life of the mines.
The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown as a financing cost, rather than as an operating cost.
Mining damages costs are liabilities to reimburse all immediate damages caused by mining activities to third party assets.
Mining damages costs are assessed by the Group for each individual project.
This assessment is reviewed and approved by the Czech Mining Authority.
r Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods or services received, whether or not invoiced by the supplier.
Trade and other payables are initially stated at fair value and then subsequently at amortised cost.
s Revenue i Own products sold and services rendered Sales revenues consist of sales of coal, coke and related by-products coking gas, chemical products, methane etc.
and services rendered to third parties, measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding any applicable taxes, excise duties, charges, discounts and rebates.
Most of the sales are priced as carriage paid to CPT, delivered at place DAP or delivered duty paid DDP.
The Group has concluded that it is acting as a principal in all of its sales arrangements, delivering complete supplies to specified place including responsibility for transportation, handling, solving duty tax issues and possibly insurance.
All amounts billed to customers for transportation and handling are classified mostly as a sales revenue from own products, as a part of selling price, or occasionally as services rendered, with transportation and handling costs recognised as service expenses.
A significant proportion of Group production is sold under frame contracts, which are quarterly mostly for coking coal and partly for coke or semi-quarterly updated by amendments specifying pricing or volumes for the next period.
However, the sales revenue is only recognised on an individual sale when all of the following criteria are met:
