115 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information asset or CGU based on a discounted cash flow model requires the use of estimates and assumptions, including: the appropriate discount rate, the timing of the cash flow and expected life of the relevant area of interest, exchange rates, coal and coke prices, reserves, future capital requirements and future operating performance.
Changes in these estimates and assumptions impact the recoverable amount of the asset or CGU, and accordingly could result in an adjustment to the carrying amount of that asset or CGU.
Employee benefits The Groups accounting policy for employee benefits requires management to make estimates and assumptions about discount rate, future remuneration changes, changes in benefits, life expectancy, retirement age, number of employees and expected remaining periods of service of employees.
Changes in these estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on the carrying value of the employee benefit provision.
Refer to note 26 for details of the key assumptions.
b Basis of consolidation The financial statements include the accounts of New World Resources Plc and its subsidiaries.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and transactions and unrealised gains arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
iii Changes in ownership interest without a loss of control A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
iv Loss of control Upon the loss of control, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to the subsidiary.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss.
If the Group retains any interest in an entity that was previously a subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost.
Subsequently it is accounted for as an equity-accounted investee or as an available-for-sale financial asset depending on the level of influence retained.
c Principles for preparation of the statement of cash flows Cash flow is presented using the indirect method.
Net cash flows from operating activities are reconciled from profit before tax and non-controlling interests NCI.
Interest received is classified as an investing activity as it mainly relates to investments.
Interest paid is classified as an operating activity as it significantly affects the net profit.
d Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
ii Foreign operations Assets and liabilities of operations with functional currency other than EUR are translated to EUR at the exchange rate at the reporting date: income statement items of operations with functional currency other than EUR are translated at exchange rates approximating the rates at the dates of the transactions.
Equity items are translated at historical exchange rates.
The exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of an operation with functional currency other than EUR in full or in part, the relevant amount of accumulated exchange differences is transferred to the income statement.
