Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and thirteenth Annual 12.
That subject to the passing of Resolution 11 the Board be and it General Meeting of Northgate plc the Company will be held at is hereby empowered pursuant to s570 of the Companies Act Rockliffe Hall Hotel, Hurworth on Tees, County Durham DL2 2DU 2006 to allot equity securities within the meaning of s560 of at 11.00a.
m. on 13 September 2011 for the purpose of considering the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the and, if thought fit, passing the following resolutions of which previous resolution as if sub-section 1 of s561 of the said Act resolutions 1 to 11 and 14 and 15 will be proposed as ordinary did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power resolutions and resolutions 12 and 13 will be proposed as special shall be limited: resolutions: a. to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a 1.
To receive the Directors report and audited accounts of the rights issue in favour of Ordinary shareholders where the Company for the year ended 30 April 2011. equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as 2.
To receive and approve the Remuneration Report for the may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary shares held financial year ended 30 April 2011 set out on pages 25 to 29 of by them: and the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
b. to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub- 3.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold paragraph i. above of equity securities up to an aggregate office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
To authorise the Audit and Risk Committee to determine the and shall expire on the date of the next annual general meeting remuneration of the auditor.
of the Company after the passing of this resolution save 5.
To re-elect Mr RD Mackenzie as a Director.
that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to 6.
To re-elect Mr AJ Allner as a Director.
be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity 7.
To re-elect Mr JG Astrand as a Director.
securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To re-elect Mr THP Brown as a Director.
To re-elect Mr RL Contreras as a Director.
That a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
To elect Mr CJR Muir as a Director.
That the rules of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 'the Plan' 11.
That the Board be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally referred to in the notes and the first Appendix to this notice of authorised pursuant to s551 of the Companies Act 2006: AGM and produced to this Meeting and, for the purposes of a. to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in identification, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to Directors hereby be authorised to: convert any security into shares in the Company up to an a. make such modifications to the Plan as they may consider aggregate nominal amount of 22,000,000 provided that appropriate to take account of the requirements of HMRC this authority shall expire on the date of the next annual and best practice and for the implementation of the Plan general meeting of the Company after the posting of this and to adopt the Plan as so modified and to do all such resolution save that the Company may before such expiry other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to make an offer or agreement which would or might require operate the Plan: and shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after such expiry and b. establish further plans based on the Plan but modified to the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for take account of local tax, exchange control or securities or convert securities into shares in pursuance of such an laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had available under such further plans are treated as counting not expired: and further against the limits on individual or overall participation in the Plan.
b. to exercise all powers of the Company to allot equity 15.
That the rules of the Management Performance Share Plan securities within the meaning of s560 of the said Act MPSP referred to in the notes and the second Appendix to in connection with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary this notice of AGM and produced to this Meeting and, for shareholders where the equity securities respectively the purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman, be attributable to the interests of all Ordinary shareholders approved and the Directors hereby be authorised to: are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary shares held by them up to a further a. make such modifications to the MPSP as they may consider aggregate nominal amount of 22,000,000 provided that appropriate to take account of best practice and for the this authority shall expire on the date of the next annual implementation of the MPSP and to adopt the MPSP as so general meeting of the Company after the passing of this modified and to do all such other acts and things as they resolution save that the Company may before such expiry may consider appropriate to operate the MPSP: and make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
86 Notice of Annual General Meeting Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 CREST Proxy Instruction' must be properly authenticated in accordance with b. establish further plans based on the MPSP but modified Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, available under such further plans are treated as counting in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID against the limits on individual or overall participation in RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the the MPSP.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST The Directors of the Company consider that all the proposals set out Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may in the above Resolutions are in the best interests of the Company treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in and of the shareholders as a whole.
They unanimously recommend regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. that you vote in favour of them as they intend to do in respect 7.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorize a person or persons to act as its representative s at the AGM.
In accordance with the of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise 345,349 shares representing approximately 0.26% of the issued on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do Ordinary share capital of the Company.
not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 By Order of the Board can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the D Henderson Meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting, that the members Secretary propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the Registered office: website must also be sent to the Companys auditors no later than the time Norflex House it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be Allington Way dealt with at the Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
The Company must cause to be answered at the Meeting any question DL1 4DY relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting which is put by a member attending the Meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting or if it is NOTES undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the disclosure of appoint another person s who need not be a member of the confidential information.
Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak 10.
As at 22 June 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one of this notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 133,232,518 proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is Ordinary shares of 50 pence each, carrying one vote each and 1,000,000 appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares preference shares of 50 pence each, which do not carry any rights to vote held by him.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company 2.
A proxy form which may be used to make this appointment and give proxy are 133,232,518. instructions accompanies this notice.
Details of how to appoint a proxy are 11.
The contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in set out in the notes to the proxy form.
As an alternative to completing a hard respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Meeting, copy proxy form, proxies may be appointed by using the electronic proxy the total voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the Meeting and, appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out in Note 5 if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members below.
CREST members may appoint proxies using the CREST electronic matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will proxy appointment service see Note 6 below.
In each case the appointment be available on the Companys website: www.
must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of 12.
A copy of the draft rules of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and the the Meeting.
Management Performance Share Plan will be available for inspection at the 3.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have Companys registered offices and at Hewitt New Bridge Street, 11 Devonshire been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of Square, London, EC2M 4YR, during normal business hours on any weekday the Companies Act 2006 'a Nominated Person'.
The rights to appoint a proxy Saturdays, Sundays and English public holidays excepted until the close of the can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as 13.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of meeting a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have expressly stated.
a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the 14.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the threshold exercise of voting rights.
requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, 4.
To be entitled to attend and vote, whether in person or by proxy, at the to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice Meeting, members must be registered in the register of members of the of a resolution which those members intend to move and which may properly Company 48 hours before the time of the Meeting or, if the Meeting is be moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt adjourned, 48 hours before the adjourned Meeting.
Changes to entries on the with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons properly be included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the Meeting or be moved, or a matter properly included in the business, unless a in the case adjourned meeting.
of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason 5.
Shareholders wishing to appoint a proxy online should visit www.
of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or capitashareportal.
com and follow the instructions on screen.
If you have not otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
already registered with The Share Portal you will need to identify yourself with A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, your personal Investor Code see Attendance Card.
To be valid your proxy must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be appointment s and instructions should reach Capita Registrars no later than 48 included in the business, must be authenticated by the person s making it hours before the time set for the Meeting.
and must be received by the Company not later than 1 August 2011, being 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST the date 6 clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out described in the CREST Manual on the Euroclear website www.
com the grounds for the request.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message 'a 87 Notice of Annual General Meeting Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued First Appendix to notice of AGM ii the business for whom the individual works makes a loss due to poor risk management: or Summary of the principal terms of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan iii there has been material misrepresentation regarding the Companys performance: or Operation iv exceptional circumstances exist, such as gross misconduct by The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the the individual.
Company 'the Committee will continue to supervise the operation of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan the Plan.
Leaving employment Eligibility As a general rule, an Award will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment within the Companys group, unless the Any employee including an executive Director of the Company and Committee decides otherwise.
However, if a participant ceases to its subsidiaries is eligible to participate in the Plan at the discretion of be an employee because of his death, ill-health, redundancy or his the Committee.
employing company is sold out of the Companys group, then his Under current policy, only the Companys Executive Directors and Award may be exercised within six months from the date of such senior and middle management are selected to participate in the cessation 12 months in the case of death.
The Award will lapse if it Plan.
is not exercised within this period.
The Plan is used to facilitate the deferral of a portion of annual Corporate events bonus in shares at the discretion of the Committee.
In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding up of Grant of deferred awards the Company all Awards will vest early.
To give effect to any deferred share element of bonus, the If an offer to roll-over awards is made in the context of a takeover or Committee may grant awards Awards to acquire Ordinary internal re-organisation then Awards will be replaced by equivalent shares in the Company within six weeks following the Companys new awards over shares in a new holding company unless the announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may Committee decides that Awards should vest on the basis which also grant Awards within six weeks of the removal of any regulation would apply in the case of a takeover.
which had previously prevented the grant of awards or at any Participants rights other time when the Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances which justify such grant.
Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until the Awards have been exercised and the participants have received their shares.
Subject to shareholder approval, the terms of the Plan will provide that an Award may not be granted more than 10 years after the Plan Rights attaching to Shares is approved by shareholders.
Any shares allotted when an Award is exercised will rank equally Awards under the Plan are structured as nil cost options.
No with shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a payment is required for the grant of an award.
Awards are not record date prior to their allotment.
Variation of capital Individual limit In the event of any increase or variation of the share capital of the An employee may not receive Awards in any financial year over Company, a capitalisation issue, a reduction in capital, a rights issue, Shares having a market value in excess of 50 per cent of his annual a sub-division or consolidation of shares, the payment of a capital base salary in that financial year or such other percentage as the dividend, a demerger or a similar event involving the Company, the Committee may determine from time to time having regard to total Committee may make such adjustments to the number of shares in bonus maximum set by the Committee.
respect of which any Award is subject as it considers appropriate.
Vesting of awards Overall Plan limits Awards normally vest three years after grant provided the participant Subject to shareholder approval, the Plan may operate over new is still employed in the Companys group.
Awards are then normally issue shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market.
exercisable up until the day before the tenth anniversary of grant In any 10 calendar year period, the Company may not issue or grant unless they lapse earlier.
rights to issue more than: Claw-back a 10 per cent of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company In line with institutional investor guidelines and best practice, a clawunder the Plan and any other employee share plan adopted by back provision has been included in the Plan rules.
the Company: and In relation to Awards granted on or after 28 April 2010, the b 5 per cent of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company Committee may decide to claw-back value under an Award from an under the Plan and any other executive share plan adopted by individual if the Award was granted or vests over a higher number of the Company.
shares than would otherwise have been the case because: Treasury shares will count as new issue shares for the purposes i in determining the value of the Award the Company relied on of these limits unless institutional investors decide that they need accounts which were incorrect or required to be restated: or not count.
88 Notice of Annual General Meeting Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 HMRC approved schedule to the Plan HMRC approval is being sought for a schedule to the Plan which, if approved by HMRC, will provide for linked tax approved market value options to be granted in connection with Awards under and subject to the material terms of the Plan for the purposes of improving the tax efficiency of the grants in the UK.
Any grants made under the schedule will not impact on the overall gross value of the Awards that may vest under the Plan for a participant.
Alterations to the Plan The Committee may, at any time, amend the Plan in any respect, provided that, subject to shareholder approval for the Plan, the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of shares or the transfer of treasury shares, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment of awards.
The requirement to obtain such prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Companys group.
89 Notice of Annual General Meeting Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Second Appendix to notice of AGM Claw-back Summary of the principal terms of the In line with institutional investor guidelines and best practice, a Management Performance Share Plan claw-back provision has been included in the MPSP rules.
Operation In relation to Awards granted on or after 28 April 2010, the Committee may decide to claw-back value from an individual if the The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the Award was granted or vests over a higher number of shares than Company the Committee will continue to supervise the operation would otherwise have been the case because: of the Management Performance Share Plan MPSP.
i in determining the value of the Award the Company relied on Eligibility accounts which were incorrect or required to be restated: or Any employee of the Company and its subsidiaries other than an ii the business for whom the individual works makes a loss due to executive Director of the Company is eligible to participate in the poor risk management: or Plan at the discretion of the Committee.
iii there has been material misrepresentation regarding the Grant of awards Companys performance: or The Committee may grant awards Awards to acquire Ordinary iv exceptional circumstances exist, such as gross misconduct by shares in the Company within six weeks following the Companys the individual.
announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may also grant Awards at any other time when the Committee considers Leaving employment there are exceptional circumstances which justify the granting As a general rule, an Award will lapse upon a participant ceasing of Awards.
to hold employment within the Companys group.
However, if a The Committee may grant Awards as conditional shares or nil cost participant ceases to be an employee because of his death, injury, options.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash-based awards disability, his employing company or the business for which he works of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy sharebeing sold out of the Companys group or in other circumstances at based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
the discretion of the Committee, then his Award will vest when he leaves.
The extent to which an Award will vest in these situations will Subject to shareholder approval, the terms of the MPSP will provide depend upon two factors: i the extent to which any performance that an Award may not be granted more than 10 years after conditions have been satisfied by reference to the date of cessation: shareholder approval of the MPSP.
and ii the pro-rating of the Award to reflect the reduced period of No payment is required for the grant of an Award.
Awards are not time between its grant and vesting, although the Committee can transferable, except on death.
decide not to pro-rate an Award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Individual limit Corporate events An employee may not receive Awards in any financial year over shares having a market value in excess of 100 per cent of his annual In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company not being base salary in that financial year.
In exceptional circumstances, an internal corporate reorganisation all Awards will vest early subject such as recruitment or retention, this limit can be increased as the to: i the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied Committee decides.
at that time: and ii the pro-rating of the Awards to reflect the reduced period of time between their grant and vesting, although Performance conditions the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an Award if it regards it as The vesting of Awards will be subject to such performance inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
conditions if any as the Committee determines appropriate.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation Awards will be Details of the performance conditions that have applied to date replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding under the MPSP are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report company unless the Committee decides that Awards should vest on section of the Companys Report and Accounts.
the basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
Vesting of Awards Participants rights Awards normally vest three years after grant to the extent that any Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until the Awards applicable performance conditions have been satisfied and provided have vested or the options have been exercised as relevant and the the participant is still employed in the Companys group.
In the case participants have received their shares.
of Awards structured as conditional shares the appropriate number Rights attaching to Shares of vested shares will be released as soon as practicable following the vesting of an Award.
In the case of Awards structured as options, Any shares allotted when an Award vests or is exercised will rank further to vesting, such Awards are then exercisable up until the day equally with shares then in issue except for rights arising by before the tenth anniversary of grant with the appropriate number reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
of vested shares transferred at the time of exercise, unless they Variation of capital lapse earlier.
In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of the shares, the 90 Notice of Annual General Meeting Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 Committee may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of shares subject to an Award.
Overall MPSP limits Subject to shareholder approval, the MPSP may operate over new issue Shares, treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
In any 10 calendar year period, the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: a 10 per cent of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company under the MPSP and any other employee share plan adopted by the Company: and b 5 per cent of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company under the MPSP and any other executive share plan adopted by the Company.
Treasury Shares will count as new issue shares for the purposes of these limits unless institutional investors decide that they need not count.
Alterations to the MPSP The Committee may, at any time, amend the MPSP in any respect, provided that, subject to shareholder approval of the MPSP, the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of Shares or the transfer of treasury Shares, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment of Awards.
The requirement to obtain such prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the MPSP, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Companys group.
Shareholder approval will also not be required for any amendments to any performance condition applying to an Award.
Overseas Plans The shareholder resolution to approve the MPSP will allow the Board to establish further plans for overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the MPSP, but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation in the MPSP.
91 Notice of Annual General Meeting Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
