Mains cleaning programme valve installation 22 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our operating performance We use a range of KPIs to measure non-financial performance in the business and these indicators are reviewed by the management team each month.
Performance for the year is reported in this section.
The definition, purpose and source of each KPI are shown on pages 52 to 53.
These measures have been reviewed in the year, as outlined in our performance measures on page 12, and a new balanced scorecard of KPIs has been introduced for 2011 12.
23 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Customer Putting customers first Customer satisfaction Customer service is at the heart of the company We measure the views of our customers with quarterly and the culture of getting things right first time tracking research alongside qualitative work in focus every time is embedded in the business.
This helps us to understand their views on customers informed about our activities through service, value for money and other issues as well leaflets with bills and our websites at www.
co. uk as their general perception of the company.
The sites include information measures its performance for domestic customers in about our services and now allow customers to ask two key ways, customer research and performance questions and investigate work being carried out in against standards.
If customers are directly affected by any work, we give advance warning and explain the need Customer research is carried out each quarter in the for the timing of such work.
We also communicate regions served and the table below shows the key more broadly with local communities through public results for overall satisfaction with service and value meetings and customer information events.
Satisfaction measured on a net basis see appendix to the directors report business review.
Customer service The performance against standards of service is shown below.
North N Target Performance South S 2010 11 2010 11 Properties at risk of low pressure N 256 230 S 55 41 Properties subject to unplanned interruption of six hours or more N 1,700 1,573 S 1,100 700 Properties subject to hosepipe bans at any time during the year N S 0 0 Properties subject to sewer flooding other causes N 150 253 Properties at risk of sewer flooding once in ten years or twice in ten years N 688 487 Billing contacts responded to within five working days % N 99.3 99.3 S 99.3 99.7 1 Written complaints responded to within ten working days % N n a 99.9 S n a 99.8 Bills based on meter readings % N 99.9 99.87 S 99.9 99.83 Note: 1.
New SIM measures were introduced in 2010 11, which incorporate this KPI, therefore no separate target set.
24 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our operating performance Customer continued In addition, Ofwat introduced the SIM in the year, Affordability which monitors both quantitative and qualitative We aim to provide accurate, clear and timely bills aspects of customer service.
This new mechanism which encourage prompt payment.
Customers financially incentivises the best performing companies who deliberately avoid paying charges are actively and penalises the worst, endeavouring to simulate pursued.
In the current economic climate, we competition and encourage excellent service know that affordability continues to be a genuine throughout the industry.
Our aim is to be the concern for many customers and we continue to leading company for SIM.
be considerate of their circumstances, ensuring they can choose suitable payment options and that our The quantitative aspect of SIM includes metrics for all recovery techniques are appropriate and effective.
lines busy and abandoned calls, unwanted calls, written However, customers who deliberately avoid paying complaints and CCWater investigations, each of which charges are actively pursued and we are working are worth a number of penalty points depending upon closely with Ofwat and Defra to seek changes to the severity.
Results across all metrics improved during legislation which will assist the industry to identify the year, customer complaints continue to reduce and those responsible for charges more easily.
our quantitative SIM score for 2010 11 was 211, a significant improvement compared to 2009 10 when The Flood and Water Management Act 2010 our score equated to 331. outlines how sewerage service providers may operate concessions for surface water drainage The qualitative aspect of SIM takes the form of a survey, charges, to protect certain community groups which is conducted each quarter across every water and premises from unaffordable charges.
We have company and asks customers who have made contact decided to introduce an interim concessionary with us about their experience.
Our cumulative score charge for the charging year 1 April 2011 to 31 for the four quarterly surveys was 4.14 out of 5, an March 2012 and will carry out consultation with improvement on the previous years score of 4.10.
CCWater to determine the longer term future of any concessions in the coming months.
The way we handle customer complaints is reviewed annually by CCWater who assess cases against a range Business customers of criteria.
During 2010 11, 96% of all cases reviewed The economic situation has had a significant impact were assessed as good.
We value the feedback on some business sectors which are important in our CCWater provide us and actively use their suggestions operating regions and NWL has been working closely to further improve the customer experience.
with major customers in those sectors to mitigate the impact where possible.
NWL has always tried to 25 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Kielder Water & Forest Park, Lakeside Way work with its major customers in partnership and the case study on page 27 highlights such work at KP Foods.
While economic conditions remain challenging, industrial demand has stabilised this year following, for example, the development of the former Artenius site by Lotte Chemical UK Limited.
The agreement for the takeover of the Corus site by SSI should help stabilise industrial demand going forward.
NWL is active in the business communities where it operates as a member of the CBI and Chambers of Commerce.
By supporting these and smaller groups NWL can help business growth and development in the areas it serves as well as retaining contact with organisations which represent customers.
Business customer satisfaction is also tracked on a regular basis and levels of satisfaction are high.
Leisure customers NWL continues to develop its leisure facilities at all strategic sites including investment in fishing facilities, holiday accommodation and supporting access for all.
Occupancy of the log cabins at Kielder was 85% and we have 5,814 fishing members registered.
The combined activity of our reservoirs rates this business the largest of its kind in the UK, with a high customer satisfaction at all sites.
NWL is also an active member of the Kielder Water & Forest Park Development Trust.
26 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Strategy in action Customer 27 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Working in partnership We always aim to exceed the expectations of our customers by taking personal responsibility for delivering and communicating a good service and keeping promises.
We have many examples of right first time every time, two of these are outlined below.
Many of our domestic customers have meters and pay bills based upon how much water they use.
Having a meter can help save money, however, for those who have larger families, big gardens or use lots of water, this can be more difficult.
This was exactly the case for the Young family from Stockton-on-Tees.
Father of two Stephen Young contacted us to discuss his metered bill and seek advice about ways to reduce his charges.
Stephen already used water butts to store rainwater, however, following our advice, Stephen and his family made some simple changes including turning off the tap while brushing their teeth, taking shorter showers and using NWLs water efficiency pack containing a variety of water saving devices.
Commenting on the help and advice he received, Stephen said: Getting in touch with NWL is easy.
I know my call will be answered straight away, which is amazing these days that I will be able to speak to someone who cares and relates to my concerns.
Vikki Anstey, our customer advisor who talked to Stephen, said: Its all about listening to each customers concerns and then making sure you meet their needs and go the extra mile to help them.
We aim to work in partnership with our major business customers as we know that a key factor for them in their business is reliability and security of our services.
Tees Valley crisp manufacturer KP Foods KP is a major customer of NWLs Billingham sewage treatment works.
To improve KPs economic performance and enhance the sustainability of its operations, KP proposed to construct a membrane bioreactor to enable water to be treated and re-circulated at its plant.
NWLs account manager worked with KP to ensure that the proposed development did not detrimentally impact on NWLs sewage treatment works compliance while providing advice and support.
Both parties have benefited from the close, honest working relationship which has resulted in a great deal of trust and respect: water consumption has been reduced meaning less abstraction, treatment and pumping for NWL and lower water bills for KP: and the trade effluent discharge is cleaner and requires less treatment, reducing the cost of power and fide-sludging for NWL, resulting in lower trade effluent discharge costs for KP.
NWL and KP have each increased their competitiveness by improving their efficiency.
28 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our operating performance Competitiveness Efficiency programme Early in the year we instigated an The efficiency programme has identified around 100 efficiency programme focused projects and initiatives from across the whole business, ranging from large scale strategic reviews to smaller on identifying and implementing improvements at a local level.
Examples of some of the sustainable operating cost changes underway include consolidating all chemical efficiencies in order to achieve analysis for our northern operating region at one laboratory: the implementation of site-specific energy our medium term goal of being management plans to reduce energy usage: increasing in the top efficiency band for the capability of our website to enable improved customer self-service: investigating opportunities for both water and sewerage, co-digestion of external waste streams at our advanced as measured by Ofwat.
anaerobic digestion plant at Bran Sands and insourcing activities where it is more efficient and effective to do so.
These efficiencies are additional to the benefits already secured through procuring our full energy requirements to March 2015 and the headcount reductions resulting from severances and early retirements, for which provision was made last year.
Delivery of the programme is on schedule and, as a result, we are ahead of the final determination profile.
However, these benefits are partially offset by the impact of the changes to the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme announced by the Government in its Comprehensive Spending Review in October 2010, which is expected to increase energy costs by around 3.0 million next year with further increases of up to 1.5 million by 2014 15, and which was not funded in the final determination.
Other aspects of performance in relation to our competitiveness theme are included in our financial performance on pages 16 to 21.
29 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Bran Sands advanced anaerobic digestion Research carried out by London Economics for Research and development Professor Martin Caves Independent Review of As part of its competitiveness theme, NWL runs a Competition and Innovation in Water Markets found programme of research and development linked to that, in terms of innovation infrastructure, NWL was one its operations, which includes the development of of the companies best equipped to promote innovation technical solutions for water and waste water in terms of the resources it dedicates.
management, collaborative research within the sector and partnerships with academic and research organisations and actively encourages innovation.
This has supported the invention, development, trial and or implementation of: advanced automatic control systems for waste water treatment process: a device for reducing flooding and pollution: microbial fuel cells and electrochemical cells, which, respectively, generate electricity or hydrogen from waste water: novel instruments for monitoring the quality of waste water effluent: beneficial re-uses for water treatment sludge: low power fide-watering and thickening of water treatment sludge: internal inspection of water distribution pipes while in service: lining systems for extending the life expectancy of water distribution pipes: water efficient and rapid disinfection of water mains: novel processes for drinking water production and waste water treatment: renewable energy production using biogas: regeneration of brownfield land using water treatment by-products: early warning system for leaks and bursts: and remote pipeline condition assessment.
During the year, the Group invested 2.3 million 2010: 2.1 million in research and development.
30 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Strategy in action Competitiveness 31 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk World first at Hanningfield An initial stage of water treatment involves removing silts and algae from raw reservoir water, a process which creates around two million litres of a ferric iron based liquid sludge every day.
Around 99.8% of this is water which, once separated, can be recycled back to the reservoir for re-use.
In this case, innovation is clearly linked to our competitiveness.
Traditionally, sludge was discharged into lagoons storing the solids whilst allowing clear water to overflow back into the reservoir.
At Hanningfield, our largest water treatment works, the last lagoon was near the end of its life and although it would have been quicker and easier to have specified traditional mechanical treatment, a considerable amount of work over three years was undertaken to prove that reed beds could provide a sustainable and effective alternative for water sludge treatment a world first for a project of this scale.
Natural England strongly supports the reed bed project at Hanningfield reservoir because it will provide a sustainable, energy and carbon-efficient solution to the long-term disposal of water treatment sludge.
It will also create a significant reed bed within a few hundred metres of Hanningfield reservoir which will be designated as a site of special scientific interest that will be of use in its own right for a variety of wildlife, including reed bed invertebrates, birds and foraging bats.
It will also provide a regular water supply for a disused sludge lagoon within the site of special scientific interest which the company has recently restored very successfully as a wildlife-rich mosaic of reed bed, open water, wet scrub and woodland.
32 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our operating performance People Employee policy Target Performance 2010 11 2010 11 Each company within the Group has developed its 1 own employee policies, reflecting the framework Employee turnover % 9.4 5.8 set out in NWGs Our Code of Conduct.
These Lost time reportable accidents policies are tailored to specific business objectives per 1,000 employees 4.3 4.1 and operating environments.
Each company aims Sickness absence % 2.9 3.1 to recruit and retain the best people, with a diverse range of skills, experience and backgrounds, who are Notes: 1.
No target set, industry average provided for information.
committed to making the company successful.
In return, each company aims to provide opportunities The active involvement and engagement of everyone and training for employees to develop their skills and across the business is an important part of delivering capabilities to equip them to meet the challenges of performance and NWL continues to seek the views of their roles, while rewarding the contributions of both employees through an annual employee engagement teams and individuals.
The CEO has responsibility at survey.
This years survey had the largest response rate Board level for human resources issues.
The Human ever, at 75%, and the feedback covered working life, Resources Director, Sarah Salter, reports directly to training, communications, managers and the company.
All employees were invited to workshops to consider the results and identify areas for improvement in their Employees working practices and environment, the outputs Throughout the Group we employ 3,031 people, as contributing to the development of departmental action set out below: plans.
In addition, 80% of respondents told us they Average are proud to work for the company, 81% would number of recommend working for the company and 77% believe Group business unit employees % that NWL is a great organisation to work for.
NWL 2,875 95 Water and waste water contracts 132 4 For the first time NWL took part in the Sunday Times Other 24 1 Best Companies survey and achieved one to watch Total employees 3,031 100 status, an excellent achievement on first time entry.
NWG ensures its terms and conditions both attract NWL employees also have access to a scheme which and retain the best people in the areas it serves.
NWL provides a wide range of benefits including tax efficient employee turnover is relatively low at 5.8%, below the benefits such as childcare vouchers, water services, UK water industry average of 9.4%.
cars for personal use and discounted store vouchers.
Currently 73% of employees participate in the scheme, NWLs current level of sickness absence is 3.1%, up from 72% last year.
which is well below the norm for the sector.
33 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Equality and diversity In 2010, NWL continued to build on its award-winning The Group operates an equal opportunity policy approach by engaging with all employees over some designed to ensure that no job applicant or employee 120 departmental workshops facilitated by senior receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of managers and 51 interactive roadshows facilitated age, gender, marital status, disability, race, ethnic or by the directors.
These were all structured to outline national origin, religion or sexual orientation.
NWL our vision and values, encourage a dialogue on monitors its workforce profile against census and improvements to working practices and environment sector data and aims to be recognised as an employer and to seek views on its people strategy.
This has of choice within the diverse communities it serves, been further developed to include leadership events ensuring it takes full advantage of the rich backgrounds held bi-annually engaging the most senior managers and abilities of current and potential employees.
in the continuous development of plans to enable the achievement of the vision.
NWL welcomes employment applications from people with disabilities and, where existing employees Training and development develop disabilities, they are supported to remain All Group companies train and develop their in employment, wherever practicable, by providing employees to benefit both the company and the appropriate adjustments to their roles and or effective individual.
Annual appraisals are given high priority, redeployments.
Occupational health physicians assist as is the identification of training needs, in recognition this process with professional medical advice.
of the importance of training and development in achieving the Groups goals and policies.
In NWL, Consultation and engagement a 360 feedback mechanism, which evaluates Each Group company engages with its employees performance against the company values, has been through a variety of means appropriate to its working introduced for all senior managers.
The results of the environment.
The importance of an inclusive and feedback are discussed at annual appraisal meetings.
engaging management style is fully recognised.
34 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our operating performance People continued Our people are the key to our business success.
Recognising our employees academic achievements, Our aim is to build and maintain a culture which the fifth annual skills awards were celebrated this values, encourages and recognises outstanding year.
Attended by senior managers from around the performance, where we share a commitment to our business, and with guest speaker Kriss Akabusi, the objectives and to delivering our personal best.
From events were again motivational and memorable.
corporate induction days and induction planning, to individual coaching, accreditation of skills through Communication national vocational qualifications, and management The Group uses a wide range of communication and leadership programmes, we provide the resources methods including magazines, brochures, leaflets, needed to help employees reach their full potential.
newsletters, intranet, notice boards and regular team meetings.
NWL issues all employees with a series of We signed the Governments Skills Pledge at the end information booklets clearly explaining areas such as of 2007, publicly committing to develop 90% of the the companys vision and values, terms, conditions workforce, around 2,600 employees, to at least and benefits of employment, and occupational health National Qualification Framework NQF Level 2 the and wellbeing programmes.
equivalent of five GCSEs at grades A to C by the end of 2010.
This was achieved by July 2010 with 90.2% Disclosure Whistleblowing qualified to NQF Level 2 or above.
National Vocational The Group encourages open feedback and is Qualifications continue to be delivered in customer committed to protecting employees who wish to voice and operational areas.
In addition, we currently have concerns about behaviour or decisions that they seven graduates on our Graduate Development believe to be illegal or unethical.
The Audit Committee Programme and 29 apprentices.
regularly reviews the disclosure policy.
NWL continues to implement its Management Health and safety Development Framework which is structured see NWG places great emphasis on health and safety and diagram on page 33 to cover the training needs of a safe working environment.
Employees are actively those who show the potential for management right encouraged to be involved in identifying and eliminating through to development at director level.
As part of hazards in the workplace.
This has resulted in a this framework we are working in partnership with significant reduction in accidents over recent years.
Newcastle Business School to provide qualifications, from a Diploma to a Masters degree, in leadership A health and safety policy is maintained and and management.
In 2010, we introduced our implemented at each subsidiary.
LEADer programme, which is the next step in our Management Development Framework, to some of Our emphasis on the importance of health and safety our operational departments.
This development within NWL has resulted in major improvements programme for supervisors, team leaders and works to our safety record in recent years.
This year we managers includes assessment against NQF Levels 2, experienced nine reportable accidents and incidents 3 and 5 management standards, as appropriate, per 1,000 employees, which continues the improving supported by formal development and coaching.
trend achieved over the last seven years.
We have established a medium term plan for taking health and safety forward in the company to 2015.
We aim to further reduce the number of accidents by 10% each year and to maintain and improve the safety culture in the company.
35 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Chris Loftus received the Essex Young Achiever of the Year Award Employee Share Incentive Plan SIP NWL proactively supports and encourages The directors believe that employee investment employees to strive for high standards of health strengthens the ties between the Group and its and wellbeing by providing a wide range of services, employees.
More than a third of employees participate support and resources relating to occupational in the SIP, and together have an interest in 0.6% of the health, with the Groups medical advisor providing issued share capital.
The scheme provides one free comprehensive occupational health services, general matching share for every three shares bought by an health promotion and stress management.
Shares for the SIP are purchased at market employees also have on and off-site access to price by the Trustee and dividends are paid in cash specialist advice and treatment to support recovery directly to participants.
There are no performance from musculoskeletal disorders MSD.
We have conditions attached to the SIP, but free shares not held reduced sickness absence due to MSD by 39% over in trust for at least 12 months are forfeited.
In 2010, we introduced NWL Support.
Part participating in the SIP are given the opportunity to of this service is an Employee Wellbeing Programme exercise their voting rights through the Trustee.
which gives employees and their immediate family access to face to face or telephone counselling on a range of subjects regardless of whether or not the issues are work related.
In addition, it also provides a telephone based case management service for employees who have either a stress related or mental health condition.
We have reduced stress related sickness absence by 16% in the first year.
We continue to promote healthy eating, hydration and to discourage smoking in our workforce and offer excellent health screening and medical insurance schemes.
Around 2,200 employees have been through our health screening and fitness standards programmes, both of which now include lifestyle advice elements.
Quality The company has successfully extended its scope of certification to the international occupational health and safety management standard OHSAS 8001:2007 to include Scientific Services, thus now ensuring company-wide coverage.
36 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Strategy in action People 37 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Growing in water investing in our people As a company we are committed to investing in training and development to ensure that our people are competent and safe in their current roles, to support them to develop skills and knowledge to help take the business forward and, where people are career orientated, to help them develop for future roles.
We have many examples of our people in the business who have developed their career within NWL.
Tony Erskine, our customer manager, joined us aged 17 on the young persons development programme, a youth training scheme, and began studying for a higher national certificate qualification.
He is now in his final year of NWLs bespoke BA Hons in Leadership and Management and will graduate in July.
Tony said: The BA course is the best thing that I have ever done.
It has been a real eye opener and enabled me to learn new skills, get different perspectives and learn from others.
Its been a massive benefit to me as a manager and I believe makes me a more effective leader.
Its been a lot of hard work but I have gained a lot from it and so will the company.
Chris Loftus, leakage assistant, was unemployed and not sure of what he wanted to do with his life when he saw the poster advertising The Princes Trust Get into Water programme in the window of his local Jobcentre.
He found his age and lack of experience a real hindrance until he joined us on a three week course designed to provide unemployed 16-25 year olds with the opportunity to learn about the water industry and get some valuable hands-on work experience, before hopefully moving into employment.
He has now been with NWL for three years and has become a young ambassador for the Princes Trust while receiving the Essex Young Achiever of the Year Award.
Kathryn Waugh, distribution operations controller, joined the accelerated graduate development programme in 2001 following her degree in physical geography.
She undertook a series of strategic projects and business support placements to develop her knowledge of business processes and gain a broad overview of the company and its operations.
After further development roles in water and waste water works management, she has now taken a senior role in operations.
Kathryn said: I find working with people to make positive improvements to the operations and maintenance side of the business very rewarding.
I really enjoy my job and working for NWL.
38 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our operating performance Environment Water quality Water resources The quality of water is critical to our customers and Water resource availability is a key issue in our Essex samples are taken on a daily basis for analysis under and Suffolk areas.
Work continued throughout 2010 regulations monitored by the DWI.
The quality in all on increasing the capacity of Abberton reservoir, near areas served remained high.
Good progress was made and the project remains on programme.
North N Target Performance South S 2010 11 2010 11 In early 2011, construction of two new pipelines to DWI Mean Zonal N 99.85 99.95 bring water from Norfolk commenced.
The one Compliance % S 99.95 99.94 remaining part of the overall Abberton Scheme that DWI Operational N 99.65 99.84 requires permissions is the variation of abstraction Performance Index % S 99.98 99.97 licences at Denver and Blackdyke, in Norfolk, and we Distribution N 99.70 99.70 are working closely with the EA on progressing this.
Maintenance Index % S 99.85 99.93 Once this scheme is operating, in 2014, we do not expect to have to develop further major resources in Essex for the next 25 years.
Compliance at water treatment works has improved significantly in 2010 with fewer microbiological failures In addition to improving the supply of water, we believe than any previous year.
This reflects the work being it is important to manage the demand for water so that undertaken to achieve internal medium term targets for it does not exceed levels that can be supplied in a performance.
In addition, service reservoir maintenance sustainable way.
Metering has an important role to has been enhanced, with inspection rates now three play in this regard.
For several years we have been times higher than historical frequencies.
The aim of this installing water meters upon change of occupier in work is to sustain a higher level of microbiological properties in the Essex area.
This is in addition to the compliance while ensuring the integrity of the asset optional metering scheme available to all customers.
Around 48% of domestic households in Essex and 60% in Suffolk are now metered.
In the north east, Work using new cleaning techniques to refurbish more where supplies are more plentiful, 24% of households than 150 kilometres of the large diameter pipe network are metered.
The network supplies drinking water to over half a million customers in south east New water efficiency targets were introduced in Northumberland and parts of Tyneside.
The majority 2010 11 to reduce per capita consumption across of the cleaning works have now been delivered and the companys domestic customers by one litre per the programme is due to be completed in June 2011, property per day.
These targets apply in all areas achieving a significant reduction in customer served and the award-winning work previously carried complaints of discoloured water.
Progress has been out in Essex was extended to the rest of the company.
maintained despite the unusually harsh winter.
New initiatives have been developed, including an innovative theatre production called Little Green Riding Hood with Fame Factory Spotlight, which took the water efficiency message to 36,500 school children over the last year.
NWL met its water efficiency targets early, before the end of the year.
39 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk We continue to monitor the weather patterns and The advanced anaerobic digestion plant at Bran the early part of 2011 has proved to be dry with little Sands is now fully operational and generating the rainfall.
The resource situation is still good with expected volumes of biogas and electricity.
The adequate resources in storage to meet demand.
There re-organisation, to operate the plant at much lower are no plans for restrictions although the company will manning levels than previously, has been successfully continue to use awareness campaigns to encourage implemented.
Construction is now underway on a customers to control demand in dry periods.
similar plant at Howdon, on Tyneside, to process the remainder of NWLs sludge.
Our assets, once again, proved very resilient during the most severe December weather for more than A total of 33 of the 34 bathing waters in the north 100 years in the north east of England.
It proved very east passed the required mandatory standard and challenging but we were able to maintain supplies to 28 met the more demanding guideline standard.
The customers largely due to the exemplary efforts of our single mandatory failure was Saltburn and NWL is employees who worked tirelessly in difficult conditions.
carrying out a detailed investigation on whether any of The severe freeze and subsequent thaw, inevitably our assets could be contributing to this and is working resulted in a significant increase in burst pipes and with other agencies to determine how they may be leakage both on our own network and customer impacting on this bathing water.
As a result, in our northern operating region, the water lost over the winter period meant we, along The number of properties experiencing internal with other companies, did not meet our annual flooding due to hydraulic overloading reduced leakage target.
In our southern region, conditions were significantly in 2010 11.
This can be attributed to a not quite so severe and we achieved our target.
We combination of less frequent and intense summer have recovered from the effects of the winter through storms in 2010 and the cumulative effect of our sewer implementing an action plan which will position us well flooding investment programme.
Enhanced resolution to meet the target in the following year.
rain radar has now been in place in the north east since 2009 allowing us to identify severe weather Waste water across the region.
NWLs exceptional performance for sewage treatment works continued with all numerically consented works During 2010 11 we completed 43 schemes at a cost again remaining compliant for the year.
of 17.5 million that resulted in the removal of 178 properties from flooding registers.
Planning to identify Target Performance schemes for coming years forms a key part of our Northern operating area only 2010 11 2010 11 investment programme and is well advanced, with Sewage treatment works % 100 100 a further 270 properties to be addressed in 2011 12.
Bathing waters Mandatory Additionally, in line with our serviceability action Standard % 100 97 plan for sewer flooding, we have embarked on a Pollution incidents category 1, programme of increased mitigation.
This covers not 2 and 3 102 101 only properties where a scheme is not cost beneficial but also properties where a solution may not be implemented quickly.
Selset hydroelectric plant 40 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our operating performance Environment continued The number of properties flooded due to other causes hydroelectric installations at five reservoirs including also reduced significantly in 2010 11.
This reduction the UKs largest man-made reservoir, Kielder Water.
has been influenced by increased sewer cleansing A recently commissioned 2.5 million hydroelectric activity as well as better weather.
project at our Selset reservoir that will generate up to 750 kilowatts of electricity 4,000 megawatt Carbon management plan hours a year.
Renewable energy is also being The water industry is one of the largest users of generated with hydroelectric plants at Derwent, energy in the UK and we aim to play a full part in Lartington and Wear Valley reservoirs in addition support of Governments plans to reduce emissions.
to biogas combined heat and power plants at We have been working hard over recent years to Stressholme, Hexham and Aycliffe: reduce our carbon footprint while preparing ourselves limiting tertiary ultraviolet disinfection outside the for the future challenges of a change in climate and bathing water season at five major works reduces the weather events we may face as a consequence.
energy consumption and carbon emissions with no detrimental effect on the marine environment: and NWL has published its carbon management plan to encouraging customers, through our using water meet its target of a 35% reduction in operational wisely campaign, to recognise that if they waste emissions by 2020, from a 2008 base.
water, they also waste energy information and tools are available for customers on our websites.
The carbon management plan includes energy efficiency, renewable energy generation and water Through these projects, and by reviewing the efficiency efficiency and supports our activities to help us adapt of our pumps across the business, we have reduced to a changing climate.
It represents a sustainable the amount of energy used by almost 9% over the and responsible way forward for the business, our last five years.
The projects which will help us to achieve our carbon reduction target NWL has successfully achieved the Carbon Trust are outlined below: Standard for its efforts in reducing greenhouse gas our 33.0 million investment in thermal hydrolysis emissions.
The standard provides an objective advanced anaerobic digestion at Bran Sands, benchmark against which our commitment and which provides 50% c. 4.7 MW of the energy success in addressing our climate change impact requirements of the site.
This enables waste water was assessed and is significant as it demonstrates sludge to generate methane to fuel gas engines progress against our ambitious carbon and produce green electricity.
A similar plant will management plan.
be constructed at Howdon, which is planned for completion in 2013 14.
Together these plants will help meet our target of generating 20% of our energy needs from renewable energy, as well as reduce our overall energy demand: 41 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Changing weather patterns More positively we have found that the anticipated The water cycle and the changing weather have a drier summers of the future are less of a concern for direct influence on the provision of water and waste NWL than for many other companies in our industry.
NWLs employees are experienced in The ongoing investment to increase the capacity of managing the effects of too much or too little rainfall, Abberton reservoir plays a big part in this for our but changing weather patterns will present a growing Essex operating area.
Work is now underway on this challenge for the business.
project that has been in development for over 15 years, a reflection of the long lead times for such In past years, we have carried out research into the environmentally sensitive schemes.
The presence likely impact of climate change on all our assets and of Kielder Water helps protect the north east region water resources and this has been incorporated in to an even greater extent.
Despite this, we anticipate our climate change policy as part of our corporate that we will need to monitor and formally update our responsibility work.
This work is continuing, based on understanding of the threat from the changing the latest UKCP09 projections published in 2009 by weather at regular intervals.
the UK Climate Impacts Programme.
Quality Over the course of the past year we have incorporated NWL has maintained its certification to the international this work into our response to the new adaptation quality standard ISO 9001:2008 and to the international reporting power granted to the Government by the environmental standard ISO 14001:2004 across all 2008 Climate Change Act.
This work has highlighted areas of the business, including operational sites and that increasing rainfall intensity is the most significant office based teams.
short term threat that we will face as a result of the changing climate.
This represents a serious challenge if we are to manage successfully the higher level of risk of sewer flooding that will result.
We have already begun to take actions that will better prepare us for this challenge, including investment in weather radar, remote monitoring of the sewer network and joint working with other drainage agencies.
These will all contribute to our better understanding and management of the threat.
42 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Strategy in action Environment 43 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Good progress for the Abberton Scheme Essex is the driest county in the UK.
In a dry year demand already outstrips supply and due to population rise this situation is expected to get worse.
After 17 years in the planning the 150 million Abberton construction scheme to help secure water supply to 1.5 million customers in Essex made good progress in its first year.
The reservoir, near Colchester, will be enlarged by 58% with its footprint extended by 40%, and the increased capacity will be in service in 2014.
Over the last year, significant progress has been made and two important milestones have now been reached.
Water is now flowing into the reservoir via the newly completed reservoir inlet structure at Broadmeadows and work has begun on the construction of two major raw water pipeline routes.
These 1.2 metre diameter, 16 kilometre long, steel pipelines will transfer water from the River Stour at Wormingford to Abberton.
Abberton is a site of international environmental significance, designated under the Ramsar convention on wetlands.
In designing our proposals, working closely with Natural England, the RSPB and Essex Wildlife Trust, we have gone beyond what is required to not only maintain the environmental significance of the site but to enhance it.
The new reservoir will have existing concrete edging removed, will include more marginal shallow waters, as well as a new re-sited visitor centre and an extensive wetland area at the western end of the reservoir.
The new proposals will improve biodiversity as well as enhance the amenities for visitors.
44 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our operating performance Communities NWL supports the communities we serve in a number Community Foundations covering our areas of supply of different ways.
We have been widely recognised as hold endowment funds totalling nearly 1.0 million leaders in our support for projects that make the areas contributed by NWL over the last 19 years.
These we serve better places in which to live, work or invest.
are long term investments with the income from the This year the company has been re-accredited by funds used to support community and environmental FTSE4Good and is awaiting re-accreditation as a initiatives.
Community groups are chosen by Platinum Plus company by Business in the Community.
committees of our own employees 44 recipients The Queens Award for Industry is still in place as it is this year.
awarded for a five year period.
This year, the company was also recognised by Ethisphere, an AmericanIn addition to cash donations, NWL seeks to support based international think-tank, as one of the 110 most many projects through in-kind giving and support.
ethical companies in the world and was one of only Through Good Moves we aim to put NWL estates five UK-based companies.
Working in partnership with artist groups CoExist and Metal, we have The support we give to our communities focuses on developed a temporary art project at our empty five broad areas.
Southend complex to provide space for a temporary gallery, studio and small creative business complex.
Investment in our communities This year the Group made charitable donations We have focused on developing affordable rural totalling 152,000.
In addition, and in line with previous housing to contribute to the sustainability and vitality years, we have contributed resources with a value of those communities, including support of the Prince equivalent to at least 1% of our annual pre-tax profits of Wales Affordable Rural Housing Initiative since it through cash, employee time and expertise, or use of was launched in 2003.
As part of this commitment our facilities to projects which benefit the communities we are working with Hastoe Housing on a project we serve.
Our employees fundraised 69,000 for for 12 houses on land close to Hanningfield water charities this year.
treatment works in Essex and these are due for completion in 2011.
The Care for safety scheme, which encourages employees to reduce accidents and associated lost time, has triggered payments over 16,000 for our charities nominated by employees Great North Air Ambulance Service, Royal National Lifeboat Institution RNLI, Myelin Project, Zoes Place, Macmillan Cancer Support, St Cuthberts Hospice and East Anglian Childrens Hospice.
Since it began in 2004 over 326,000 has been raised for charity.
45 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Heidi Mottram, CEO, hands over cheque The Kielder Partnership was created in 1994 and Participation in our communities consisted of private, public and voluntary sector As part of NWLs in-kind giving, we encourage partners committed to the development of Kielder employees to volunteer their time, skills and expertise Water & Forest Park as a tourism, leisure and through our Just an hour volunteering scheme.
Activity has focused on We support our people to actively participate in delivering the Partnerships vision Kielder Big Picture their local communities by giving them work time to including the use of the fabulous tracks and trails volunteer in projects of their choice.
During the year developed in 2008 09. our people have helped hundreds of community projects, completing tasks as varied as beach clean The 26 mile Lakeside Way, a multi-user track, is now ups, organising charity balls and taking on ambitious used by 45% of all visitors.
This trail was used for the gardening and decorating challenges.
first Kielder Marathon in October 2010, dubbed the most beautiful in Britain, organised by Olympic athlete For example, a group of employees volunteered their Steve Cram.
This, combined with other activities time to support people with disabilities to participate including the development of mountain bike trails and in an activity weekend organised by the charity the increasingly popular Kielder Observatory, has Leonard Cheshire Disability.
Together, volunteers and helped to increase visitor numbers between 2008 and service users enjoyed outdoor activities including 2010 by 9.4% to 306,250, creating an additional 66 abseiling and taking a zip wire across a river.
Further direct and indirect jobs and boosting the spend in the highlights came from the Essex based employees local economy by 20% to 15.5 million.
who collected over 1,000 boxes of food supplies as part of the Harvest for the Hungry campaign 2010.
In December 2010, the structure of the Partnership This important contribution helped the humanitarian was formalised by forming a registered charity campaign to provide an essential lifeline to villages called the Kielder Water & Forest Park Development and communities scattered across Eastern Europe.
Trust which will continue to deliver the vision and 25 year investment plan for the area.
The website Currently 27% of employees participate in the Just www.
com provides further details of an hour volunteering scheme and last year gave over all facilities.
Over 870 different organisations were given financial and in-kind support during the year.
46 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our operating performance Communities continued Educating our communities about their Supporting healthy communities environment NWL continues to promote the health benefits of Key partnerships have been developed by NWL to drinking tap water and our Water for health campaign help the conservation of biodiversity on our sites, to aims to encourage people to lead a healthy lifestyle.
facilitate public access and to develop conservation To date, over 341,000 has been provided to fund free education.
Our contribution includes funding project mains-fed water coolers in schools and around 740 officers and providing expertise to the organisations.
have been supplied in nearly 410 schools.
We also Our current partnerships include: continue to promote bottle-free water coolers as a Northumberland Wildlife Trust Kielder and Bakethin : sustainable alternative to bottle-fed coolers.
Similarly, Durham Wildlife Trust: we use our tap into initiative to donate bottled tap Essex Wildlife Trust Hanningfield : water to community sporting events in order to Broads Authority Lound and Trinity Broads : and promote the importance of rehydration during Davy Down Trust North Stifford, Essex.
This year we donated 82,300 bottles of tap water to events.
A wide range of targeted educational materials are available on our websites for children and teachers.
Working with a wide and diverse range of sporting We promote the use of these materials and celebrate partners is a natural extension of our Water for innovative approaches to environment and health health campaign and we work with them to support education via our support of the Northumbrian Water grassroots sporting activities to get people active Schools Awards in the north east and Cash for as well as educating them on healthy eating and Schools Awards in Essex.
We also lead on specific environmental education Through our partnerships we have reached over initiatives such as the innovative Northumbrian Water 96,000 children and adults.
This year the project, in collaboration links and networks to enable sporting partners with The Climate Change Schools Project, ClimateNE, to get together to share ideas and resources: EA and GLOBE UK, is supporting five schools to take financial support of approximately 50,000 per control of capturing and analysing local weather data, annum which then levered over 600,000 from patterns and extreme events using weather stations other sources: and training provided by NWL.
Ultimately, children advice and marketing support on programme involved will become community scientists to drive development: behavioural change at local levels.
bottled tap water, sports bottles, water jugs or mains-fed bottle-free coolers to reinforce the importance of drinking tap water to rehydrate during sporting activities: and help with fundraising and raising the profile of the partnerships to attract additional investment.
47 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Craig Holliday visits WaterAid project in Bangladesh We have linked our Good moves initiative and our Supporting developing communities through Water for health campaign to develop Healthworks.
WaterAid This is a unique project utilising one of our redundant NWL has continued to raise funds and awareness for buildings to help tackle the poor long term health of the work of WaterAid which brings sustainable water the residents in Easington, County Durham, by and sanitation solutions, as well as hygiene education, granting a 99 year lease to County Durham Primary to the poorest parts of Africa and Asia, as it has since Care Trust and working in partnership to develop the charity was formed by the water industry in 1981. services for the local community in an area where census records show one of the worst health The employee fundraising committee has raised records in the country.
more than 4 million, since 1997, with the help of the company and last year focused its fundraising support We are represented on the steering group for on specific projects in Ethiopia.
We support our Healthworks and provide research, marketing and employees to become ambassadors for the charity communications support.
The centre has received and encourage annual supporter trips to see WaterAid almost 20,000 visits to date and now provides over projects.
This year, Asset Manager Craig Holliday 58 health and community support services including visited Bangladesh and saw first hand how our a GP led walk-in health centre open 8am to 8pm 365 adopted international charity saves lives.
It acts as a community focal point where service providers and community groups can come together to address issues that affect the quality of life in their local community.
48 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Strategy in action Communities 49 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk A performance at Castle View Castle View Enterprise Academy, in Sunderland, completed its first year of operations during the year.
NWL is the lead sponsor and wanted to create a centre of excellence with a clear focus on raising standards of academic performance to enable every student to achieve their personal best in all areas of academy life within a safe, secure and stable environment.
NWL formed a new trust board to govern the school, recruited an inspirational head teacher and helped her to form a new leadership team, design an engaging curriculum and implement a set of new policies which would fundamentally change and improve school life for the students.
During the first year, Castle View Enterprise Academy students achieved 43% A Cs in GCSEs English and Maths up from 26% in the old Castle View School and 86% five or more GCSEs A Cs up from 63%.
Persistent absences decreased from 10%, in the old Castle View school, to 6.3% in the new academys first year of operation.
In March 2011, the new academy undertook Ofsted assessment and from being a failing school previously is now a school making good progress.
Indeed, sixteen students at Castle View Enterprise Academy have gained amongst the highest grades possible in the January 2011 GCSE Mathematics examinations six months ahead of schedule.
Eight of the sixteen gained grade A and the other eight gained grade A.
In addition to the excellent teaching in the academy and after school tutorials, these more able students were also coached by one of our graduate trainees, David Bullin, who has a maths degree.
David has given his time under our employee volunteering scheme, Just an hour, on Wednesdays after school and more recently on Saturday mornings.
