com 137 Glossary 2010 Code means the uK Company means Ocado group plc, Ocado limited from time-to-time as Corporate governance Code published a company incorporated in england and the context may require.
by the financial reporting Council June wales with registered number 07098618 2010, as in force from time-to-time.
whose registered office is at titan Court, Disclosure and Transparency Rules 3 bishops square, hatfield business park, means the disclosure rules and Active Customers means customers hatfield, hertfordshire, al10 9ne.
transparency rules made by the fsa who have shopped in the previous 12 under part vi of fsma.
EBIT means operating profit loss Administrative expenses means before interest including interest all it costs, advertising and marketing Cost of sales means the cost of on finance leases and taxation.
expenditure, employment costs of all groceries and other products the head office functions, which include legal, group sells, any associated licence EBITDA means the non-gaap finance, human resources, marketing fees which are linked to the volume of measure which Ocado has defined and procurement, rent and other sales of specific products or product as earnings before net finance costs, property-related costs for the head groups, including the branding and taxation, depreciation, amortisation, office, all fees for professional services sourcing fees payable to waitrose, impairment and exceptional items.
and the depreciation, amortisation and adjustments to inventory, and charges impairment associated with head office for transportation of goods from a EBITDA margin means ebitda as a it equipment, software, fixtures and supplier to CfC1.
fittings and expenses relating to the esOs and the JsOs.
Convertible preference shares EBT means earnings before tax.
means all convertible preference shares Admission means the admission of convertible into the same number of EBT Trustee means the trustee from the ordinary shares of the Company ordinary shares either at the option time-to-time of the employee benefit to the premium listing segment of of the holder or on the occurrence of trust established for the purposes of the the Official list and to trading on the certain trigger events including a public JsOs, currently appleby trust Jersey london stock exchanges main market listing.
for listed securities which occurred on shares rank pari passu with ordinary 26 July 2010. shares with the exception that on ESOS means the Ocado 2001 return of assets they have priority to all executive share Ownership scheme.
AGM means the annual general other shareholders.
meeting of the Company, which will be Exceptional items means items that, held on 23 may 2012 at 11am at One CSTM means Customer service due to their material and non-recurring bunhill row, london, eC1y 8yy.
team member, which is the title given nature, have been classified separately in to our customer facing delivery drivers.
order to draw them to the attention of Articles means the articles of the reader of the financial statements.
Customer Fulfilment Centre or CFC means a dedicated highly automated Executive Directors means tim Block Listing Facility means the warehouse used for the operation of steiner, Jason gissing, neill abrams, facility whereby a number of shares the business.
andrew bracey and mark richardson.
have been block listed but will only be allotted when options under the esOs Distribution costs means all the Financial period means the 52 week and non-employee share schemes have costs incurred, excluding product period ending the closest sunday to 30 been exercised.
costs, to the point of sale, usually the november.
this includes the Board means the board of directors payroll-related expenses for the picking, Financial year see financial period.
of the Company or of Ocado limited dispatch and delivery of product sold from time-to-time as the context may to the point of sale, the cost of making FRC means the financial reporting require.
those deliveries, including fuel, tolls, Council.
maintenance of vehicles, the operating CFC1 means the Customer costs of the properties required for FY means financial year.
fulfilment Centre in hatfield, the picking, dispatch and onward hertfordshire.
delivery operations and all associated Gross sales means sales net of depreciation, amortisation and returns, including charges for delivery, CFC2 means the Customer impairment charges, call centre costs before deducting relevant voucher fulfilment Centre in dordon, and payment processing charges.
offers and value added tax.
Directors means the directors of HMRC means her majestys Companies Act means the the Company whose names are set out revenue & Customs.
Companies act 2006. on pages 28 and 29, or the directors of 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 glossary Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 138 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Glossary continued IFRS IC means the international Non-Executive Directors means SKU means a stock keeping unit, financial reporting standards the non-executive directors of the that is each individual item or product interpretations Committee.
Company designated as such on pages stocked.
IFRS means international financial Sourcing Agreement means reporting standard s. Notice of Meeting means the notice the various sourcing and branding of the Companys agm.
agreements between Ocado, waitrose IPO means the initial public offering and John lewis.
Ocado Council means the Ocado forum used to consult with our Spoke means the trans-shipment John Lewis means John lewis plc, employees.
sites used for the intermediate delivery the parent company of waitrose.
lewis plc was incorporated in england Ocado Delivery Pass means the and wales with registered number Ocado discounted pre-pay delivery Substitution means the term used 233462 and its registered office is 171 service available in various offerings to refer to the alternative product victoria street, london, sw1e 5nn.
including monthly, quarterly and annually.
provided in place of the original product ordered by a customer.
John Lewis Pension Fund means Ocado Saving Pass means the John lewis partnership pensions Ocado discount membership scheme TSR means total shareholder return trust, which is the corporate trustee which entitles customers to receive the growth in value of a shareholding of the John lewis partnership trust fixed discounts on selected branded over a specified period, assuming that for pensions.
it was incorporated in products from Ocado within a dividends are reinvested to purchase england and wales with registered saving pass group for the length of additional units of the stock.
number 372106 and its registered office membership and any renewal.
is 171 victoria street, london, sw1e UK or United Kingdom means the 5nn.
Other income means primarily united Kingdom of great britain and advertising revenue for advertising northern ireland.
JSOS means Joint share Ownership services provided by Ocado to scheme.
suppliers and other third parties on UPH means the abbreviation for the website, commission income and units or eaches per hour.
KPI means key performance sublease payments receivable.
Waitrose means waitrose limited, Prospectus means the Companys a company incorporated in england LIBOR means london interbank prospectus dated 6 July 2010 prepared and wales with registered number Offered rate.
in connection with the Companys 00099405. admission.
Listing Rules means the listing rules Webshop means the customer made by the uK listing authority under Revenue means online sales net facing internet-based virtual shop part vi of the financial services and of returns through the website and accessible on the website.
mobile applications, including charges for delivery, but excluding relevant Website means www.
Management Committee means vouchers offers and value added senior management responsible for tax.
relevant vouchers offers include managing the day-to-day affairs of the money-off coupons, conditional spend business.
vouchers and multi-buy offers, such as buy three for the price of two.
Net finance costs means finance income and finance costs.
finance Sharesave Scheme means the income is comprised principally of bank Ocado employee savings-related share interest and other interest.
finance option plan approved by hmrC.
costs are comprised of interest on bank loans and overdrafts, interest on finance Shareholder means a holder for the leases and interest on other financing time being of ordinary or convertible arrangements.
