OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 105 1.
Accounting policies continued r. Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the q.
Revenue recognition continued Group has substantially all the risks and rewards Circulation and advertising revenue is recognised when of ownership are classified as finance leases.
the newspaper or other publication is published.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement Subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased basis over the life of the subscription.
property and the present value of the minimum lease Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the more separate elements that can be provided to liability and finance charges to achieve a constant rate customers either on a stand-alone basis or as an on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding optional extra, such as the provision of supplementary rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included materials with textbooks, revenue is recognised for in financial liabilities borrowings.
The interest element each element as if it were an individual contractual of the finance cost is charged to the income statement arrangement.
over the lease period to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability Revenue from multi-year contractual arrangements, for each period.
The property, plant and equipment such as contracts to process qualifying tests for acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the individual professions and government departments, is shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
The assumptions, risks, and uncertainties inherent in long-term contract Leases where a significant portion of the risks and accounting can affect the amounts and timing of rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are revenue and related expenses reported.
Certain of classified as operating leases by the lessee.
Payments these arrangements, either as a result of a single service made under operating leases net of any incentives spanning more than one reporting period or where the received from the lessor are charged to the income contract requires the provision of a number of services statement on a straight-line basis over the period of that together constitute a single project, are treated as the lease.
long-term contracts with revenue recognised on a s. Dividends percentage of completion basis.
Losses on contracts Dividends are recorded in the Groups financial are recognised in the period in which the loss first statements in the period in which they are approved becomes foreseeable.
Contract losses are determined by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends to be the amount by which estimated total costs of the are recorded in the period in which they are approved contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will and paid.
be generated by the contract.
t. Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale On certain contracts, where the Group acts as agent, Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale and only commissions and fees receivable for services stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value rendered are recognised as revenue.
Any third-party less costs to sell if it is intended to recover their costs incurred on behalf of the principal that are carrying amount principally through a sale transaction rechargeable under the contractual arrangement are rather than through continuing use.
No depreciation not included in revenue.
is charged in respect of non-current assets classified Income from recharges of freight and other activities as held for sale.
Amounts relating to non-current which are incidental to the normal revenue generating assets and liabilities held for sale are classified as activities is included in other income.
discontinued operations in the income statement where appropriate.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at fair value after provision for bad and doubtful debts and anticipated future sales returns see also note 1q.
