156 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Cash generated from operations continued Net cash generated from operations is translated at an exchange rate approximating to the rate at the date of cash flow.
The difference between this rate and the average rate used to translate profit gives rise to a currency adjustment in the reconciliation between net profit and net cash generated from operations.
This adjustment reflects the timing difference between recognition of profit and the related cash receipts or payments.
Operating cash flow, operating free cash flow and total free cash flow are non-GAAP measures and have been disclosed as they are part of Pearsons corporate and operating measures.
In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: All figures in millions 2011 2010 Net book amount 9 3 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 3 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 9 The principal other non-cash transactions are movements in finance lease obligations of 10m 2010: 2m.
Contingencies There are contingent Group liabilities that arise in the normal course of business in respect of indemnities, warranties and guarantees in relation to former subsidiaries and in respect of guarantees in relation to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
In addition there are contingent liabilities of the Group in respect of legal claims, contract disputes, royalties, copyright fees, permissions and other rights.
None of these claims are expected to result in a material gain or loss to the group.
During the year various government bodies in the US and Europe have been in the process of investigating Penguin and other major publishers over the agency arrangements for selling e-books.
These investigations are ongoing and Penguin is cooperating fully with these inquiries.
At the same time beginning in August 2011, Penguin and various other book publishers and book retailers have been sued in a number of private consumer class action law suits in the US which allege violation of the anti-trust and unfair competition laws by the defendants in connection with the adoption of the agency selling model for e-books.
The complaints in those suits generally seek treble damages, injunctive relief and attorneys fees.
Penguin is defending itself in those actions and believes that it was fully compliant with all applicable laws.
Commitments There were no commitments for capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not yet incurred.
The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms and renewal rights.
The Group also leases various plant and equipment under operating lease agreements, also with varying terms.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the year is disclosed in note 4.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments in respect of operating leases are as follows: All figures in millions 2011 2010 Not later than one year 179 164 Later than one year and not later than two years 164 151 Later than two years and not later than three years 149 130 Later than three years and not later than four years 134 112 Later than four years and not later than five years 119 95 Later than five years 980 785 1,725 1,437 OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 157 36.
Related party transactions Joint ventures and associates Amounts advanced to joint ventures and associates during the year and at the balance sheet date are set out in note 12.
There are no material amounts falling due from joint ventures and associates.
In December 2011, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in FTSE International Ltd and details of this transaction are also shown in note 12.
Key management personnel Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the board of directors of Pearson plc.
It is this board which has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Key management personnel compensation is disclosed in the directors remuneration report.
There were no other material related party transactions.
No guarantees have been provided to related parties.
Events after the balance sheet date There were no significant post balance sheet events.
