104 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Share-based payments The fair value of options or shares granted under the Groups share and option o.
Employee benefits plans is recognised as an employee expense after taking 1.
Pension obligations The retirement benefit asset and into account the Groups best estimate of the number obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents of awards expected to vest.
Fair value is measured at the net of the present value of the defined benefit the date of grant and is spread over the vesting period obligation and the fair value of plan assets at the of the option or share.
The fair value of the options balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is granted is measured using an option model that is most calculated annually by independent actuaries using the appropriate to the award.
The fair value of shares projected unit credit method.
The present value of the awarded is measured using the share price at the date defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting of grant unless another method is more appropriate.
estimated future cash flows using yields on high quality Any proceeds received are credited to share capital corporate bonds which have terms to maturity and share premium when the options are exercised.
approximating the terms of the related liability.
p. Provisions The determination of the pension cost and defined Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit legal or constructive obligation as a result of past pension schemes depends on the selection of certain events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation resources will be required to settle the obligation rate, salary growth, longevity and expected return on and the amount can be reliably estimated.
are discounted to present value where the effect Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences is material.
between actual and expected returns on plan assets, The Group recognises a provision for deferred experience adjustments on liabilities and changes in consideration at fair value.
actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease contracts when the expected benefits to be derived The service cost, representing benefits accruing over from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of the year, is included in the income statement as an meeting the obligations under the contract.
The unwinding of the discount rate on the scheme liabilities and the expected return on The provision is based on the present value of future scheme assets are presented as finance costs or payments for surplus leased properties under nonfinance income.
cancellable operating leases, net of estimated subleasing income.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an operating expense q.
Revenue recognition in the income statement as incurred.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and 2.
Other post-retirement obligations The expected costs services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts, and of post-retirement healthcare and life assurance after eliminating sales within the Group.
benefits are accrued over the period of employment, using a similar accounting methodology as for defined Revenue from the sale of books is recognised when benefit pension obligations.
The liabilities and costs title passes.
A provision for anticipated returns is made relating to significant other post-retirement obligations based primarily on historical return rates.
If these are assessed annually by independent qualified actuaries.
estimates do not reflect actual returns in future periods then revenues could be understated or overstated for a particular period.
