OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 103 1.
Accounting policies continued n. Taxation Current tax is recognised on the amounts expected to l. Borrowings be paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which is have been enacted or substantively enacted at the proceeds received net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between the proceeds net of Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability transaction costs and the redemption value being method, on temporary differences arising between the recognised in the income statement over the period tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax Accrued interest is included as part of borrowings.
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to relationship, an adjustment is made to its carrying value apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised in the income statement to reflect the hedged risk.
or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Interest on borrowings is expensed in the income Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent statement as incurred.
that it is probable that future taxable profit will be m. Derivative financial instruments available against which the temporary differences Derivatives are recognised at fair value and recan be utilised.
measured at each balance sheet date.
The fair value Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the of derivatives is determined by using market data and undistributed earnings of subsidiaries other than where the use of established estimation techniques such as it is intended that those undistributed earnings will not discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
be remitted in the foreseeable future.
The Group designates certain of the derivative instruments within its portfolio to be hedges of Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges or statement, except when the tax relates to items hedges of net investments in foreign operations charged or credited directly to equity or other net investment hedges.
comprehensive income, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous in the income statement, together with any changes in jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are determining the estimates in relation to the worldwide attributable to the hedged risk.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax The effective portion of changes in the fair value of determination is uncertain during the ordinary course derivatives that are designated and qualify as net of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for investment hedges are recognised in other anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses accumulated whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final in equity are included in the income statement when tax outcome of these matters is different from the the corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
amounts that were initially recorded, such differences Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions recognised immediately in finance income or finance in the period in which such determination is made.
costs in the income statement.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management Certain derivatives do not qualify or are not designated judgement in determining the amounts to be as hedging instruments.
Such derivatives are classified recognised.
In particular, significant judgement is used at fair value and any movement in their fair value is when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets recognised immediately in finance income or finance should be recognised with consideration given to the costs in the income statement.
timing and level of future taxable income together with any future tax planning strategies.
