OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 99 1.
Accounting policies continued Identifiable assets and contingent assets acquired and identifiable liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed a.
Basis of preparation continued in a business combination are measured initially at 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to their fair values at the acquisition date.
For material published standards that are not yet effective continued acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired intangible Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 2011, assets is determined by an external, independent effective for annual reporting periods beginning on valuer.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the or after 1 January 2013.
The amendments include the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree elimination of the corridor approach, changes to the and the acquisition date fair value of any previous calculation of the net interest component and changes equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the to disclosure.
identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements See note 1e 1 for the accounting policy on goodwill.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting the subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise purchase, the difference is recognised directly in its judgement in the process of applying the Groups the income statement.
The areas requiring a higher On an  basis, the Group degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree assumptions and estimates are significant to the either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests consolidated financial statements, are discussed proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
in the relevant accounting policies under the following headings: 2.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and Intangible assets: Goodwill operating policies, generally accompanying a Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Royalty advances Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on Taxation which control is transferred to the Group and are Employee benefits: Pension obligations fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Transactions with non-controlling interests Transactions b.
Consolidation with non-controlling interests are treated as 1. Business combinations The acquisition method of transactions with shareholders.
Any surplus or accounting is used to account for business combinations deficit arising from disposals to a non-controlling of the Group with an acquisition date on or after interest is recorded in equity.
The consideration transferred for a non-controlling interest, the difference between the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the consideration paid and the relevant share acquired assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the of the carrying value of the subsidiary is recorded equity interest issued by the Group.
transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 4.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed entities in which the Group holds an interest on a as incurred.
long-term basis and which are jointly controlled, with one or more other venturers, under a contractual arrangement.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not the power to control the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
