102 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Newspaper development costs Investment in the development of newspaper titles e. Intangible assets continued consists of measures to increase the volume and Reviews are performed regularly to estimate geographical spread of circulation.
The measures recoverability of pre-publication assets.
The carrying include additional and enhanced editorial content, amount of pre-publication assets is set out in note 20. extended distribution and remote printing.
These costs f. Other financial assets are expensed as incurred as they do not meet the Other financial assets, designated as available for criteria under IAS 38 Intangible Assets to be sale investments, are non-derivative financial assets capitalised as intangible assets.
measured at estimated fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents fair value are recorded in equity in the fair value Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement reserve.
On the subsequent disposal of the asset, include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, the net fair value gains or losses are taken to the other short-term highly liquid investments with income statement.
original maturities of three months or less, and bank g. Inventories overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
Cost is determined using the first in Short-term deposits and marketable securities with first out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods maturities of greater than three months do not qualify and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct as cash and cash equivalents.
Movements on these labour, other direct costs and related production financial instruments are classified as cash flows overheads.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling from financing activities in the cash flow statement price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated as these amounts are used to offset the borrowings costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made of the Group.
for slow moving and obsolete stock.
k. Share capital h. Royalty advances Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Advances of royalties to authors are included within trade and other receivables when the advance is paid Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of less any provision required to adjust the advance to its new shares or options are shown in equity as a net realisable value.
The realisable value of royalty deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
advances relies on a degree of management judgement Where any Group company purchases the companys in determining the profitability of individual author equity share capital treasury shares the consideration contracts.
If the estimated realisable value of author paid, including any directly attributable incremental contracts is overstated, this will have an adverse effect costs, net of income taxes, is deducted from equity on operating profits as these excess amounts will be attributable to the companys equity holders until the written off.
shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon an such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any annual detailed management review of the age of the consideration received, net of any directly attributable advance, the future sales projections for new authors transaction costs and the related income tax effects, and prior sales history of repeat authors.
The royalty is included in equity attributable to the companys advance is expensed at the contracted or effective equity holders.
royalty rate as the related revenues are earned.
Royalty advances which will be consumed within one year are held in current assets.
Royalty advances which will be consumed after one year are held in noncurrent assets.
