100 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Group companies The results and financial position of all Group companies that have a functional currency b.
Consolidation continued different from the presentation currency are translated The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates into the presentation currency as follows: post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
at the date of the balance sheet: The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates ii income and expenses are translated at average results is recognised as a component of operating exchange rates: profit as these operations form part of the core publishing business of the Group and are an integral iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised part of existing wholly-owned businesses.
as a separate component of equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are On consolidation, exchange differences arising from adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or and of borrowings and other currency instruments associate equals or exceeds its interest in the joint designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to venture or associate the Group does not recognise shareholders equity.
The Group treats specific interfurther losses unless the Group has incurred company loan balances, which are not intended to be obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net venture or associate.
When a foreign operation is sold, such c. Foreign currency translation exchange differences are recognised in the income 1.
Functional and presentation currency Items included in statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
the financial statements of each of the Groups entities The principal overseas currency for the Group is the are measured using the currency of the primary US dollar.
The average rate for the year against sterling economic environment in which the entity operates was $1.60 2010: $1.54 and the year end rate was the functional currency.
statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
d. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical 2.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency cost less depreciation.
transactions are translated into the functional currency Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the straight-line method to allocate their cost less their transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses residual values over their estimated useful lives resulting from the settlement of such transactions and as follows: from the translation at year end exchange rates of Buildings freehold : 2050 years monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, Buildings leasehold : over the period of the lease except when deferred in equity as qualifying net Plant and equipment: 310 years investment hedges.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
The carrying value of an asset is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying value of the asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
