OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 101 1.
Internally developed software Internal and external costs incurred during the preliminary stage of e. Intangible assets developing computer software for internal use are 1.
Goodwill For the acquisition of subsidiaries made on expensed as incurred.
Internal and external costs or after 1 January 2010 goodwill represents the excess incurred to develop computer software for internal of the consideration transferred, the amount of any use during the application development stage are non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the capitalised if the Group expects economic benefits acquisition date fair value of any previous equity from the development.
Capitalisation in the application interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the development stage begins once the Group can reliably identifiable net assets acquired.
For the acquisition of measure the expenditure attributable to the software subsidiaries made from the date of transition to IFRS development and has demonstrated its intention to to 31 December 2009 goodwill represents the excess complete and use the software.
Internally developed of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired.
estimated useful life of between three and eight years.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates 4.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets and joint ventures represents the excess of the cost of include customer lists and relationships, trademarks an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share and brands, publishing rights, content and technology.
of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill on These assets are capitalised on acquisition at cost and acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included included in intangible assets.
Intangible assets acquired in investments in associates and joint ventures.
in material business combinations are capitalised at their fair value as determined by an independent valuer.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
useful lives of between two and 20 years, using an An impairment loss is recognised to the extent amortisation method that reflects the pattern of that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the their consumption.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Pre-publication assets Pre-publication assets These calculations require the use of estimates and represent direct costs incurred in the development of significant management judgement.
A description of the educational programmes and titles prior to their key assumptions and sensitivities is included in note 11. publication.
These costs are recognised as current Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the intangible assets where the title will generate probable purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made future economic benefits and costs can be measured to those cash-generating units that are expected reliably.
Pre-publication assets are amortised upon to benefit from the business combination in which publication of the title over estimated economic lives of the goodwill arose.
five years or less, being an estimate of the expected operating life cycle of the title, with a higher proportion Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include of the amortisation taken in the earlier years.
the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
The investment in pre-publication assets has been disclosed as part of cash generated from operations IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied in the cash flow statement see note 33. retrospectively to business combinations before the date of transition to IFRS.
The assessment of the recoverability of pre-publication assets and the determination of the amortisation 2.
Acquired software Software separately acquired for profile involve a significant degree of judgement based internal use is capitalised at cost.
Software acquired in on historical trends and management estimation of material business combinations is capitalised at its fair future potential sales.
An incorrect amortisation profile value as determined by an independent valuer.
could result in excess amounts being carried forward as Acquired software is amortised on a straight-line basis intangible assets that would otherwise have been written over its estimated useful life of between three and off to the income statement in an earlier period.
