174 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Shareholder information Pearson ordinary shares are listed on the London Share dealing facilities Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange Equiniti offers telephone and internet services in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
for dealing in Pearson shares.
For further Corporate website information, please contact their telephone dealing helpline on 08456 037 037 weekdays only or, for The investors section of our corporate website online dealing, log on to www.
com investors provides a wealth of You will need your shareholder reference number information for shareholders.
It is also possible to as shown on your share certificate.
sign up to receive email alerts for reports and press releases relating to Pearson at A weekly postal dealing service is also available www.
com investors announcements through Equiniti.
Please telephone 0871 384 2248 for email-alerts details or log on to www.
Shareholder information online ShareGift Equiniti provides a range of shareholder information online.
You can check your holding and find practical Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose help on transferring shares or updating your details at value makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to www.
For more information, please donate them to ShareGift, the share donation charity contact our registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer registered charity number 1052686.
Further Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Telephone information about ShareGift and the charities it has 0871 384 2233 or, for those shareholders with supported may be obtained from their website, hearing difficulties, textphone number 0871 384 2255. www.
org or by contacting them at 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH.
Information about the Pearson share price American Depositary Receipts ADRs The companys share price can be found on our website at www.
It also appears in the Pearsons ADRs are listed on the New York Stock financial columns of the national press.
Exchange and traded under the symbol PSO.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share.
For enquiries regarding Payment of dividends to mandated accounts registered ADR holder accounts and dividends, Should you elect to have your dividends paid through please contact The Bank of New York Mellon, BACS, this can be done directly into a bank or building PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516, society account, with the tax voucher sent to the telephone 1 866 259 2289 toll free within the US shareholders registered address.
Equiniti can be or 001 201 680 6825 outside the US.
Alternatively, contacted for information on 0871 384 2043. you may e-mail shrrelations@bnymellon.
Voting rights Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP for registered ADR holders can be exercised through The DRIP gives shareholders the right to buy the The Bank of New York Mellon, and for beneficial companys shares on the London stock market ADR holders and or nominee accounts through with their cash dividend.
For further information, your US brokerage institution.
Pearson will file with please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2268. the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 20-F. Calls to these numbers are charged at 8p per minute Individual Savings Accounts ISAs from a BT landline.
Other provider costs may vary.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Equiniti offers ISAs in Pearson shares.
For more information, please go to www.
co. uk dealing or call customer services on 0845 300 0430.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 175 Share register fraud: protecting your investment Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly to provide recommendation advice and neither does it appoint third parties to do so.
As required by law, our shareholder register is available for public inspection but we cannot control the use of information obtained by persons inspecting the register.
Please treat any approaches purporting to originate from Pearson with caution.
For more information, please log on to our website at www.
com investors  boiler-room-scams and www.
com shareholderfaqs Tips on protecting your shares Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference number in a safe place and shred any unwanted documentation Inform our registrar, Equiniti promptly when you change address Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact the registrar if you do not receive your dividend cheque or better still, make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via a nominee 2012 Financial calendar Ex-dividend date 4 April Record date 10 April Last date for dividend reinvestment election 13 April Annual General Meeting 27 April Payment date for dividend and share purchase date for dividend reinvestment 4 May Interim results 27 July Payment date for interim dividend 14 September
