98 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments.
Pearson plc the company and its subsidiaries together the Group are international media Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum businesses covering education, business information Funding Requirement.
The company is a public limited company incorporated 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered published standards that are not yet effective office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
The Group has not early adopted the following new The company has its primary listing on the London pronouncements that are not yet effective and are Stock Exchange and is also listed on the New York evaluating the effect on the financial statements: Stock Exchange.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual These consolidated financial statements were reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015. approved for issue by the board of directors The new standard details the requirements for the on 7 March 2012. classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities.
Accounting policies The IASB issued a package of five new and amended The principal accounting policies applied in the standards together.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial preparation of these consolidated financial statements Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 are set out below.
Disclosures of Involvement with Other Entities have a.
Basis of preparation been issued.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements These consolidated financial statements have been Revised 2011 has been amended following the prepared in accordance with International Financial issuance of IFRS 10 and retains the guidance for Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations separate financial statements, IAS 28 Investments in Committee interpretations as adopted by the Associates and Joint Ventures Revised 2011 has European Union EU and with those parts of the been amended following the issuance of IFRS 10 and Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies IFRS 11.
All three new standards and two amended reporting under IFRS.
In respect of the accounting standards are effective for annual reporting periods standards applicable to the Group there is no difference beginning on or after 1 January 2013. between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, effective for annual These consolidated financial statements have been reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. prepared under the historical cost convention as The standard defines fair value and provides guidance modified by the revaluation of financial assets and on its determination, and introduces disclosure liabilities including derivative financial instruments requirements on fair value measurements.
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards Statements Presentation of Items and Other effective in 2011 Comprehensive Income, effective for annual The following amendments and interpretations were reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012. adopted in 2011 and have not had an impact on the The amendments require the grouping of items in Group financial statements: other comprehensive income into those that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods, Amendments to IAS 24 Related Parties.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights.
