Independent auditors report Petrofac Consolidated income statement Annual report and accounts 2011 11 7 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated statement of cash ows Consolidated statement of changes in equity Notes to the consolidated financial statements 01 22 41 50 65 15 1 3 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is Evaluation expenditures allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or units to which activities is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs include goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at the costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes payments to contractors and an appropriate share of directly and is not larger than an operating segment determined in attributable overheads incurred during the evaluation phase.
accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
For such appraisal activity, which may require drilling of further wells, costs continue to be carried as an asset whilst related Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of hydrocarbons are considered capable of commercial development.
the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the Such costs are subject to technical, commercial and management recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the review to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise carrying amount of the cash-generating units and related goodwill, extract value.
When this is no longer the case, the costs are an impairment loss is recognised.
written-off in the income statement.
When such assets are declared part of a commercial development, related costs are transferred Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and to tangible oil & gas assets.
All intangible oil & gas assets are part of the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill assessed for any impairment prior to transfer and any impairment associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance Development expenditures is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed Expenditure relating to development of assets which include the of and the portion of the cash-generating units retained.
construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, is capitalised Deferred consideration payable on a business within property, plant and equipment.
combination When, as part of a business combination, the Group defers a Changes in unit-of-production factors proportion of the total purchase consideration payable for an Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations acquisition, the amount provided for is the acquisition date fair value are dealt with prospectively, not by immediate adjustment of prior of the consideration.
The unwinding of the discount element is years amounts.
recognised as a finance cost in the income statement.
For business combinations prior to 1 January 2010, all changes in estimated Decommissioning deferred consideration payable on acquisition are adjusted against Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when the the carried goodwill.
For business combinations after 1 January Group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an 2010, changes in estimated deferred consideration payable on item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and when acquisition are recognised in the consolidated income statement a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
The amount unless they are measurement period adjustments which are as a recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
result of additional information obtained after the acquisition date An amount equivalent to the discounted initial provision for about the facts and circumstances existing at the acquisition date, decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised over the life which are adjusted against carried goodwill.
of the underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven and probable reserves.
Any change in the present value of the Intangible assets non oil & gas assets estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially and the oil & gas asset.
measured at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition and are recognised separately from goodwill where the asset is The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning separable or arises from a contractual or other legal right and its fair provisions is included under finance costs in the income statement.
value can be measured reliably.
After initial recognition, intangible Available-for-sale financial assets assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any Investments classified as available-for-sale are initially stated at fair accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life value, including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
are amortised over their useful economic life using a straight-line method unless a better method reflecting the pattern in which the After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are assets future economic benefits are expected to be consumed can measured at their fair value using quoted market rates or in the be determined.
The amortisation charge in respect of intangible absence of market data other fair value calculation methodologies.
assets is included in the selling, general and administration Gains and losses are recognised as a separate component of expenses line of the consolidated income statement.
The expected equity until the investment is sold or impaired, at which time the useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis.
Any change cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in in the useful life or pattern of consumption of the intangible asset is the consolidated income statement.
treated as a change in accounting estimate and is accounted for Impairment of assets excluding goodwill prospectively by changing the amortisation period or method.
At each statement of financial position date, the Group reviews the Intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to assess indication that the asset may be impaired.
whether there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
Oil & gas assets If any such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the Capitalised costs assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount The Groups activities in relation to oil & gas assets are limited to is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value assets in the evaluation, development and production phases.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset are discounted to their present value using Oil & gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted for a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of using the successful efforts method of accounting.
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up p p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
