Petrofac 52 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility continued How we operate Petrofacs values of being safe, ethical, innovative, responsive, quality and cost conscious and driven to deliver are core to the way we operate.
Reecting these values, we manage our More widely, as a services business, the We are committed to protecting the business ethically and transparently, in a quality of Petrofacs human capital is vital to environment and achieving a good way that complies with international laws, its success.
Our ambitious growth plans environmental performance.
We therefore regulations and best-practice standards.
make this even more fundamental: by 2016, seek to minimise and mitigate any negative In2011, we launched a global employee we need to recruit an extra 7,000 highly impact of our operations, including training programme on our new standard skilled people.
Effective employee reducingour environmental footprint.
for the prevention of bribery and corruption, recruitment, development and retention In2011, weadvanced towards a more in line with the UK Bribery Act.
arecritical to our operations around the accurate picture of our total impacts by world.
We are committed to looking developing a standardised environmental Employing and developing local workers is afterour people and following fair and data collection tool for all our businesses.
one of our key differentiators and central to transparent recruitment and performance our strategy.
In 2011, we reinforced our Our corporate governance systems management procedures.
emphasis on hiring local people, particularly andprocesses are aligned to the in areas where we intend to establish a International Finance Corporations Identifying and managing risks long-term presence, such as south-east respected performance standards, Asia and Romania.
peerand customer best practice and We take the safety of our people and our totheprinciples of the UN Global plant extremely seriously and invest Employing and Compact UNGC.
In January 2011, significant resources in identifying and wecommunicated our progress to the managing the risks they face.
In 2011, developing local UNGC, which can be found on its website.
weagain strengthened the processes and workers is one of our In order to raise awareness of systems we use to maintain asset integrity key differentiators and the UNGC principles, in 2012 and security.
At the same time as we we will be developing training improved our corporate contingency central to our strategy.
planning, we encouraged our people to take personal responsibility for their own safety by relaunching our global employee safety campaign, Horizon Zero.
Above Where possible, we employ and develop localworkers.
Left Stakeholders include investors, analysts, governments, customers and employees.
Our commitment to corporate responsibility Petrofac How we operate Annual report and accounts 2011 53 Managing social and environmental risk Our people Keeping people safe Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 65 6 6 107 153 A new Petrofac training centre in Turkmenistan is delivering essential construction skills and health andsafety training to the local workforce.
The facility, in Turkmenistans third largest city, Mary, in the vast Karakum Desert, is developing staffforPetrofacs South Yoloten contract, for which Petrofacis the EPC contractor for Turkmengas.
Thewell-equipped centre, which opened in April2011, has six classrooms and ofces and capacity forup to 250 students and 40 staff.
In its first nine months of operation, the centre had trained 906 delegates in such skills as welding, pipefabricating and erecting, driving, scaffolding, andsteel structural fabricating and erecting.
In 2012, we plan to increase this number by 1,054.
Petrofac is committed to employing and developing people from communities around its operations.
The Mary centre will help meet the Companys pledge to recruit 70% of its Turkmenistan team locally.
therefore developing a more strategic In 2011, we carried out a gap analysis of Engaging with stakeholders approach to stakeholder engagement, ourcurrent human rights compliance, Petrofac engages actively with local enabling us to monitor perceptions inregard to our employees, to how security communities from the earliest stage of moreeffectively.
isprovided for our operations and to contract tendering and throughout the ourinteractions with host communities.
Our aim is always to Wearecurrently piloting a system to Petrofac supports and create real, long-term opportunities and ensurethat human rights concerns, benets for our host communities.
respects the protection including consultation with stakeholders, Weestablish and maintain effective are factored into the wider social impact of internationally relationships with interested and affected and risk assessment process.
We will recognised human stakeholders, including investors, analysts, continue todraw on the expertise of governments, customers and employees.
Maplecroft, aglobal risk and strategic consultancy rm, todevelop our human In 2011, stakeholder engagement activity Petrofac supports and respects the rights processes further in 2012. included one-to-one meetings, protection of internationally recognised presentations, roadshows, community human rights.
This commitment is meetings and surveys.
As Petrofac grows, demonstrated in our Code of Business we realise that the range and expectations Conduct, in our ethical, social, regulatory of our stakeholders will widen.
We are and equal employment opportunities policies, in our promotion of diversity and inour Groupcommunity investment andsecuritystandards.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora C Corporat t te e responsibilit p y y Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
