Petrofac 11 4 Annual report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2011 IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment 1 Corporate information The IASB has issued an amendment to IAS 24 that clarifies the The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited identification of related party relationships, particularly in relation to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 were significant influence or control.
The new definitions emphasise a authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the symmetrical view on related party relationships as well as clarifying Directors on 2 March 2012. in which circumstances persons and key management personnel affect related party relationships of an entity.
While the adoption of Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered and the amendment did not have any current impact on the financial domiciled in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 position, performance, or disclosure of the Group, as all required and is the holding company for the international group of Petrofac information is currently being appropriately captured and disclosed, subsidiaries together the Group.
The Companys 31 December it is relevant to the application of the Groups accounting policy in 2011 financial statements are shown on pages 155 to 168. identifying future potential related party relationships.
The Groups principal activity is the provision of services to the oil & gas production and processing industry.
Improvements to IFRS The improvements did not have any impact on the accounting A full listing of all Group companies, and joint venture entities, is policies, financial position or performance of the Group.
contained in note 35 to these consolidated financial statements.
Standards issued but not yet effective 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Standards issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are listed below and include only Basis of preparation those standards and interpretations that are likely to have an impact The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a on the disclosures, financial position or performance of the Group historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and at a future date.
The Group intends to adopt these standards when available-for-sale financial assets which have been measured at they become effective.
The presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements is United States dollars and all values in the financial IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation Presentation of statements are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 except Items of Other Comprehensive Income OCI where otherwise stated.
The amendments to IAS 1 change the grouping of items Statement of compliance presented in OCI.
Items that could be reclassified or recycled The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its to profit or loss at a future point in time for example, upon fidesubsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International recognition or settlement would be presented separately from Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and applicable requirements items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment affects of Jersey law.
presentation only and has therefore no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
The amendment becomes Basis of consolidation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements as revised in 2011 statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries.
The financial As a consequence of the new IFRS 10 and IFRS 12, what statements of its subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting remains of IAS 27 is limited to accounting for subsidiaries, year as the Company and where necessary, adjustments are made jointly controlled entities, and associates in separate financial to the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries to bring their statements.
The amendment becomes effective for annual accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 but is not expected Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is to have any financial impact on the separate financial statements transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the of the Group but will require some changes in disclosure.
date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits as revised in 2011 from its activities.
All intra-Group balances and transactions, As a consequence of the new IFRS 11 and IFRS 12, IAS 28 including unrealised profits, have been eliminated on consolidation.
has been renamed IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, and describes the application of the equity method to Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries consolidated by the Group investments in joint ventures in addition to associates.
The Group are disclosed separately from the Groups equity and income is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have on its statement and non-controlling interests are allocated their share financial position and performance.
The amendment becomes of total comprehensive income for the year even if this results in a effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. deficit balance.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Enhanced New standards and interpretations Derecognition Disclosure Requirements The Group has adopted new and revised Standards and The amendment requires additional disclosure about financial Interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards assets that have been transferred but not fide-recognised to Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting enable the user of the Groups financial statements to understand Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB that are relevant to the relationship with those assets that have not been fideits operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on recognised and their associated liabilities.
In addition, the or after 1 January 2011.
The principal effects of the adoption of amendment requires disclosures about continuing involvement in these new and amended standards and improvements are fide-recognised assets to enable the user to evaluate the nature of, discussed below: and risks associated with, the entitys continuing involvement in those fide-recognised assets.
The amendment affects disclosure IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures amendment effective only and has no impact on the Groups financial position or 1 January 2011 performance.
The amendment becomes effective for annual improvements to IFRSs May 2010 : periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations measurement options available for non-controlling interest NCI effective 1 July 2010 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures collateral and qualitative disclosures IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements analysis of other comprehensive income
