Independent auditors report Petrofac Limited Petrofac Company income statement Annual report and accounts 2011 159 Company statement of comprehensive income Company statement of financial position Company statement of cash ows Company statement of changes in equity Notes to the Company financial statements Notes to the Company Shareholder information Glossary financial statements 01 22 41 50 65 107 For the year ended 31 December 2011 Share-based payment transactions 1 Corporate information Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration The financial statements of Petrofac Limited the Company in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby referred to as the Company financial statements for the year ended employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over 31 December 2011 were authorised for issue in accordance with shares equity-settled transactions.
a resolution of the Directors on 2 March 2012.
Equity-settled transactions Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered in The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and is the by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
holding company for the international Group of Petrofac In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any subsidiaries together the Group.
The Groups principal activity service or performance conditions, other than conditions linked is the provision of facilities solutions to the oil & gas production to the price of the shares of Petrofac Limited market conditions, and processing industry.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the Basis of preparation relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting The separate financial statements have been prepared on a period.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects available-for-sale financial assets that have been measured at fair the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups value.
The functional and presentation currency of the separate best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately financial statements is US dollars and all values in the separate vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period represents financial statements are rounded to the nearest thousand the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the US$000 except where otherwise stated.
beginning and end of that period.
Statement of compliance No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, The separate financial statements have been prepared in except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective and applicable requirements of Jersey law.
of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, Investments in subsidiaries provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision Equity awards cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on for impairment.
the date of cancellation, and any expense not recognised for the award at that date is recognised in the income statement.
Investments in associates The Company operates a number of share award schemes on Investments in associates are stated at cost less any provision behalf of the employees of the Group which are described in detail for impairment.
in note 25 of the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Long-term loan receivables from subsidiaries Long-term loan receivables from subsidiaries are initially stated at The reserve for share-based payments is used to record the value fair value.
After initial recognition, they are subsequently measured of equity-settled share-based payments awarded to employees at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
and transfers out of this reserve are made upon vesting of the original share awards.
The share-based payments charges Due from due to subsidiaries pertaining to fellow Group companies are recharged to them Due from due to subsidiaries are both interest bearing and nonand shown as investment in subsidiaries.
Subsequently they are interest-bearing short-term funding to and from subsidiaries.
transferred to due from subsidiaries and settled in cash.
These are recognised at the fair value of consideration Available-for-sale financial assets received paid, less any provision for impairment.
Investments classified as available-for-sale are initially stated at fair Cash and cash equivalents value, including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are or less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash measured at their fair value using quoted market rates or in the equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined absence of market data other fair value calculation methodologies.
above, net of any outstanding bank overdrafts.
Gains and losses are recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is sold or impaired, at which time the Interest-bearing loans and borrowings cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the income statement.
the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs directly attributable to the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Employee Benefit Trusts The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture Companies Employee Benefit Trust EBTs are treated as extensions of the activities of the Company and accordingly the Company financial statements include all transactions and balances of the EBTs except for transaction and balances between the Company and the EBTs.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
