Petrofac 118 Annual report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Financial assets continued A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying is fide-recognised where: amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset delay to a third-party under a pass-through arrangement: or in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained reversal of the impairment is treated as a revaluation increase.
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Financial liabilities Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary A financial liability is fide-recognised when the obligation under the course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Cost comprises If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same purchase price, cost of production, transportation and other directly lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing allocable expenses.
Costs of inventories, other than raw materials, liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification are determined using the first-in-first-out method.
Costs of raw is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the materials are determined using the weighted average method.
recognition of a new liability such that the difference in the Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees estimated earnings incurred are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Fixed price lump sum engineering, procurement and construction Pensions and other long-term employment benefits contracts are presented in the statement of financial position The Group has various defined contribution pension schemes in as follows: accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries for each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as in which it operates.
The amount charged to the consolidated the estimated earnings recognised at the contracts percentage income statement in respect of pension costs reflects the of completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions deducting the progress payments received or receivable from payable during the year and contributions actually paid are shown the customers, are shown in current assets in the statement of as either accrued liabilities or prepaid assets in the statement of financial position under work in progress financial position.
where the payments received or receivable for any contract exceed the cost and estimated earnings less provision for any The Groups other long-term employment benefits are provided anticipated losses, the excess is shown as billings in excess of in accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the cost and estimated earnings within current liabilities Group operates, further details of which are given in note 28.
Trade and other receivables Share-based payment transactions Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration amount less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby uncollectable.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there is employees render services in exchange for shares or rights objective evidence that the collection of the full amount is no longer over shares equity-settled transactions.
probable under the terms of the original invoice.
Impaired debts are Equity-settled transactions derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured Cash and cash equivalents by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months service or performance conditions, other than conditions linked to or less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and the price of the shares of Petrofac Limited market conditions, cash equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined if applicable.
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with Interest-bearing loans and borrowings a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs period.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled directly attributable to the borrowing.
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period represents interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
beginning and end of that period.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the consolidated income statement as a finance cost.
