Independent auditors report Petrofac Consolidated income statement Annual report and accounts 2011 119 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated statement of cash ows Consolidated statement of changes in equity Notes to the consolidated financial statements 01 22 41 50 65 15 1 3 No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of schedule of rates.
whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion of provided that all other performance conditions and service contracts entered into at the statement of financial position date, conditions are satisfied.
Equity awards cancelled are treated as whether or not work has commenced on these contracts.
vesting immediately on the date of cancellation, and any expense not recognised for the award at that date is recognised in the Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract income statement.
is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount Petrofac Employee Benefit Trusts of the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims and The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture variation orders are only included in revenue when negotiations Companies Employee Benefit Trust warehouse ordinary shares have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable the purchased to satisfy various new share scheme awards made claim variation orders will be accepted and can be measured to the employees of the Company and its joint venture partner reliably.
employees, which will be transferred to the members of the scheme on their respective vesting dates subject to satisfying the Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting performance conditions of each scheme.
The trusts have been Services and Integrated Energy Services consolidated in the Group financial statements in accordance with Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period SIC 12 Special Purpose Entities.
The cost of shares temporarily in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract held by the trusts are reflected as treasury shares and deducted schedule of rates.
Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the Leases  method, measured by milestones The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a completed or earned value once the outcome of a contract can be lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception estimated reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when date of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that the right to use the asset.
are expected to be recoverable.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only Assets held under finance leases are recognised as non-current included in revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced assets of the Group at the lower of their fair value at the date of stage such that it is probable the claim will be accepted and can be commencement of the lease and the present value of the minimum measured reliably.
These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease Integrated Energy Services term.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Oil & gas revenues comprise the Groups share of sales from the consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an entitlement basis, when obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance costs the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been passed in the income statement and reduction of the lease obligation so as to the buyer.
to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of Pre-contract bid costs the liability.
Pre-contract bid costs incurred are recognised as an expense until The Group has entered into various operating leases the payments there is a high probability that the contract will be awarded, after for which are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income which all further costs are recognised as assets and expensed over statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Revenue recognition Income taxes Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax and benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably deferred tax.
The following specific recognition criteria also apply: Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Onshore Engineering & Construction periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered Revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised on from, or paid to the taxation authorities.
Taxable profit differs from the  method, based on surveys of work profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it performed once the outcome of a contract can be estimated excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when the in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the are expected to be recoverable.
statement of financial position date.
Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned measured by the cost-to-cost method.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up p p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
