Petrofac 116 Annual report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 The statements of financial position of overseas subsidiaries, joint 2 Summary of significant accounting policies ventures and associates are translated into US dollars using the continued closing rate method, whereby assets and liabilities are translated units of production depreciation: estimated proven plus probable at the rates of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial reserves are used in determining the depreciation of oil & gas position date.
The income statements of overseas subsidiaries and assets such that the depreciation charge is proportional to the joint ventures are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
depletion of the remaining reserves over their life of production.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net assets are These calculations require the use of estimates including the taken directly to other reserves within the statement of changes amount of economically recoverable reserves and future oil & gas in equity.
capital expenditure On the disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange Interests in joint ventures differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement as The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other a component of the gain or loss on disposal.
parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of Property, plant and equipment agreements to share control over other entities jointly controlled Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated entities and commercial collaborations jointly controlled operations.
depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost comprises the The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly proportionate consolidation, which involves recognising the Groups attributable to making that asset capable of operating as intended.
proportionate share of the joint ventures assets, liabilities, income and The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount expenses with similar items in the consolidated financial statements on paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire a line-by-line basis.
Where the Group collaborates with other entities the asset.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis, other in jointly controlled operations, the expenses the Group incurs and its than on oil & gas assets, at the following rates: share of the revenue earned is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Assets controlled by the Group and liabilities incurred by it Oil & gas facilities 10% 12.5% are recognised in the statement of financial position.
Where necessary, Plant and equipment 4% 33% adjustments are made to the financial statements of the Groups jointly Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% controlled entities and operations to bring their accounting policies into or lease term if shorter line with those of the Group.
Office furniture and equipment 25% 100% Vehicles 20% 33% Investment in associates The Groups investment in associates is accounted for using the Tangible oil & gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, equity method where the investment is initially carried at cost and using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to adjusted for post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net proven and probable reserves, taking account of estimated future assets of the associate.
Goodwill on the initial investment forms a development expenditure relating to those reserves.
part of the carrying amount of the investment and is not individually Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method of tested for impairment.
depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each The Group recognises its share of the net profits after tax and financial year end.
non-controlling interest of the associates in its consolidated No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
Share of associates changes in equity is also recognised in the Groups consolidated statement of changes in The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is equity.
Any unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss arising from of the interest in associates.
the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is included in profit or loss when the item is derecognised.
Gains are The financial statements of the associate are prepared using the not classified as revenue.
same accounting policies and reporting periods as that of the Group.
Non-current assets held for sale The carried value of the investment is tested for impairment at each Non-current assets or disposal Groups are classified as held for reporting date.
Impairment, if any, is determined by the difference sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of an asset will between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use.
value and is reported within the share of income of an associate in Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
the Groups consolidated income statement.
Borrowing costs Foreign currency translation Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of The Companys functional and presentational currency is US qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a dollars.
In the financial statements of individual subsidiaries, joint substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use, are ventures and associates, transactions in currencies other than a added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are companys functional currency are recorded at the prevailing rate of substantially ready for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs exchange at the date of the transaction.
At the year end, monetary are recognised as interest payable in the consolidated income assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are statement in the period in which they are incurred.
retranslated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial position date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are Goodwill measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured at using the rate of exchange as at the dates of the initial transactions.
cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent foreign currency are translated using the rate of exchange at the liabilities of the entity at the date of acquisition.
Following initial date the fair value was determined.
All foreign exchange gains and recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated losses are taken to the consolidated income statement with the impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, exception of exchange differences arising on monetary assets or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in that such carrying value may be impaired.
These are taken directly to the statement of changes associated with business combinations are charged to the in equity until the disposal of the net investment at which time they consolidated income statement in the year of such combination.
are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
