Independent auditors report Petrofac Consolidated income statement Annual report and accounts 2011 11 5 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated statement of cash ows Consolidated statement of changes in equity Notes to the consolidated financial statements 01 22 41 50 65 15 1 3 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification Significant accounting judgements and estimates and Measurement Judgements IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASBs work In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and management has made the following judgements, apart from those measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the in IAS 39.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: on or after 1 January 2015.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement address hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets.
and construction contracts: the Group recognises revenue on The completion of this project is expected over the course of fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction contracts the first half of 2012.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 using the  method, based on surveys will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the of work performed.
The Group has determined this basis of Groups financial assets, but will potentially have no impact on revenue recognition is the best available measure of progress classification and measurements of financial liabilities.
The Group on such contracts will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, Estimation uncertainty when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements of estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial position date, IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial for consolidated financial statements.
It also includes the issues year are discussed below: raised in SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
project cost to complete estimates: at each statement of financial position date the Group is required to estimate costs to complete IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to on fixed-price contracts.
Estimating costs to complete on such all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes contracts requires the Group to make estimates of future costs introduced by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise to be incurred, based on work to be performed beyond the significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled, statement of financial position date.
This estimate will impact and therefore, are required to be consolidated by a parent, revenues, cost of sales, work-in-progress, billings in excess of compared with the requirements that were in IAS 27.
The Group costs and estimated earnings and accrued contract expenses is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have on onerous contract provisions: the Group provides for future losses its financial position and performance.
on long-term contracts where it is considered probable that the contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years.
This standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on Estimating these future losses involves a number of assumptions or after 1 January 2013. about the achievement of contract performance targets and the IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements likely levels of future cost escalation over time US$ nil 2010: IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 US$2,523,000 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions impairment of goodwill: the Group determines whether goodwill is by Venturers.
impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly-controlled goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, JCEs Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for from each cash-generating unit and also to determine a suitable using the equity method.
discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash The application of this new standard will impact the financial flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2011 was position and performance of the Group but the quantification of US$106,681,000 2010: US$105,832,000 note 12 this amount is still being determined.
This standard becomes deferred tax assets: the Group recognises deferred tax assets effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. on all applicable temporary differences where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available for utilisation.
This requires IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities management to make judgements and assumptions regarding IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously in IAS the amount of deferred tax that can be recognised based on the 27 related to consolidated financial statements, as well as all of magnitude and likelihood of future taxable profits.
The carrying the disclosures that were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS amount of deferred tax assets at 31 December 2011 was 28.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, US$29,142,000 2010: US$26,301,000 joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
A number income tax: the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to of new disclosures are also required.
This standard becomes routine tax audits and also a process whereby tax computations effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. are discussed and agreed with the appropriate authorities.
Whilst The application of this standard affects disclosure only and will the ultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot have no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
be determined with certainty, management estimates the level of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement provisions required for both current and deferred tax on the basis IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for of professional advice and the nature of current discussions with all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an the tax authority concerned entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on recoverable value of intangible oil & gas and other intangible how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required assets: the Group determines at each statement of financial or permitted.
The Group is currently assessing the impact that position date whether there is any evidence of indicators of this standard will have on the financial position and performance impairment in the carrying value of its intangible oil & gas and of the Group.
This standard becomes effective for annual periods other intangible assets.
Where indicators exist, an impairment beginning on or after 1 January 2013. test is undertaken which requires management to estimate the recoverable value of its intangible assets for example by reference to quoted market values, similar arms length transactions involving these assets or value in use calculations Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up p p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
