Petrofac 18 Annual report and accounts 2011 Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Being responsive is what makes a difference to our customer relationships Our approach to the Asab oil eld development project highlights many components of the customer responsiveness which underpins our service offering.
The US$2.3 billion project to upgrade the eld, for the Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Oil Operations ADCO, has involved many challenges.
These range from the vast size of the 40x20 km site, extreme heat, fog and frequent sandstorms, the logistics of managing 14,000 on-site staff and contractors, representing 30 different nationalities and utilising more than 1,500 vehicles and heavy pieces of equipment whilst driving around 32millionkilometres.
one of the live glass reinforced epoxy GRE pipes in the area sustained We have met all these challenges and damage.
Many contractors were delivered on every milestone over the approached by ADCO to carry out the course of the ongoing contract, repair works but all offered extended including the completion of 27 million lead times.
Petrofac, along with man-hours without a single lost time a GREteam, mobilised immediately, incident.
This has been achieved by eventhough it was a public holiday, a pervasive safety culture on-site where andsupported ADCO in completing a variety of themed behavioural safety therepair work.
programmes are routinely in progress.
The close and collaborative relationship A recent example of where the teams with ADCO, that this example have demonstrated extraordinarily high demonstrates, is key to our progress levels of responsiveness was when onthe project.
ADCO undertook some routine maintenance work in their browneld facilities.
During this particular period, Performance highlights Petrofac Our services and business model Annual report and accounts 2011 19 Chairmans statement Interview with the Group Chief Executive Leadership team Vision and values Creating sustainable growth Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Integrated Energy Services 22 41 50 65 107 153 Marwan Chedid Chief Executive, Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance of operations and maintenance support, priorities and we already have a number Engineering, Construction, on and offshore.
As the pioneer of the of key projects in this area in the UKCS Operations & Maintenance Duty Holder concept in the UK and Malaysia.
We will also be exploring ECOM designs and builds oil Continental Shelf UKCS, our track record new geographies and growth areas & gas facilities and operates, in this area spans some 15 years.
In 2012, to enhance our capabilities.
Onshore, manages and maintains them building on strong market demand, we along with our core business, we have on behalf of our customers.
intend todevelop this platform to enhance a pipeline of potential opportunities ourdedicated offshore engineering, in petrochemicals, rening and liqueed The divisions track record for delivery procurement, installation and construction natural gas areas in which we are reects our extensive oil & gas capability EPIC.
Initially, our attention will interested in diversifying the business.
experience, deep capabilities, technical be on existing markets, focusing expertise and particular attention to External partnerships will be more particularly on the UKCS, Middle East and customer needs.
With approximately prevalent in our future growth strategy Malaysia.
However, we do have visibility of 13,000 employees, ECOM represents aswe seek to add to our capability set, other opportunities outside these areas, around 85% of our total Petrofac enternew areas and, as the size and which we will be exploring inthe normal workforce.
complexity of our projects increase, course of our business activities sharerisk.
The division has three service lines, Engineering & Consulting Services whichreport as separate reporting We will also be working closely with the isPetrofacs centre of technical segments.
Together, they offer our Integrated Energy Services IES division.
From ofces oil&gas customers a wide and deep IES is able to harness our capabilities along in the UK, India and Malaysia, we deliver range of capabilities: with its asset development and training early-stage engineering studies, including expertise to deliver Petrofacs complete Onshore Engineering & Construction conceptual and front-end engineering spectrum of services on an integrated delivers onshore engineering, and design work, across onshore and basis, in line with customer needs.
In2012, and We are particularly active in the Middle While we are ambitious to grow, beyond, we will be expanding this East, Africa, Asia Pacic and the Caspian expansion will never be at the expense value-adding capability into local markets, region of the Commonwealth of ofthe values that have made our division, augmented by thedeep technical Independent States.
Our current portfolio and our wider Group, successful.
We will expertise in our Woking UK Engineering comprises several multi-billiondollar remain responsive to our customers, & Consulting Services centre projects including the US$3.4billion respectful of the communities in which Our division will play a key part in project for Turkmengas inTurkmenistan we work, and focused on safety and achieving Petrofacs strategic ambitions.
which is the worlds second largest gas delivery, along with Petrofacs other We have identied a substantial market eld, having over 700 trillion cubic feet core values.
for our sector and aim to deliver doubleofgas reserves digit growth over the next five years.
Offshore Projects & Operations Thedevelopment of our offshore activity, specialises in both offshore engineering through Offshore Projects & Operations, and construction services, for greeneld is one of Petrofacs three core strategic and browneld projects, and the provision Overview ReRi view off operattions i Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
