The Group recognises that much Operating Responsibly of its success to date is attributable to its commitment to act in a safe and responsible manner and to build its team organically through the career Focus on health and safety Petropavlovsk believes that every All staff at the Groups operations storage and industrial facilities employee has a right to work in a have the opportunity to raise and to check health and safety safe environment and is committed concerns regarding OH&S with procedures and documentation.
to providing a rigorous approach to senior management.
occupational health and safety A comprehensive and on-going OH&S.
The Group is striving to There are medical facilities and safety training programme create an embedded safety culture medically trained staff on duty at is conducted by a dedicated across its operations with the all Group operational sites, and branch of the Department of objective of minimising the risk of ambulances and helicopters are Industrial Safety and Auditing accidents and occupational illness, available for emergency evacuation and supplemented by and aiming for zero fatalities.
to regional or national hospitals.
All medical staff undergo regular The Group has systems in place training and testing.
All equipment and materials to ensure that all accidents are used in the construction of recorded and all serious accidents The Department of Industrial Group operations are designed are investigated.
This data is then Safety and Auditing conducts to safety specifications to be subject to close scrutiny by senior internal health and safety audits resilient to changes in temperature Alexander Davidenko management, the Executive of the Groups operations on a and pressure.
Head of Occupational Committee and the Board to regular basis.
These audits are Health and Safety ensure adequate health and safety supplemented by external audits The Group operates in measures are in place.
from internationally recognised accordance with Russian bodies.
also visit each of the Groups operations approximately three times a year to inspect explosives See pages 15 to 17 of the Sustainability Report 2011 for further details Focus on education In 2007, the Group established studying in their final year.
Petropavlovsk has a long-standing the first, and currently the only, The course covers the theoretical programme of investment in private vocational college in analysis and practical work educational projects and Russia: the Pokrovskiy Mining involved in metallurgical institutions in the regions where it operates.
The college currently sample analysis used in Group offers students the opportunity to laboratories.
In addition, the Amur The Group recognises that one enrol in one of 46 courses in mining State University, in collaboration and metallurgy.
Each course is of the problems for the global gold with the Group, is running two designed in consultation with new courses at its department mining industry is a shortage of Group management to ensure that of geology and Mineral Resource potential employees with the it is directly suited to the Groups management.
This is also human resources needs.
As part a challenge for Petropavlovsk, particularly as the size and number of this, the college is currently The Group remains committed of its operations increases and new training future Group technicians to broadening the qualifications technologies are implemented.
and shift managers to work at its of its employees to ensure they innovative pressure oxidation hub are trained to the highest standard at the Pokrovskiy mine.
To date, and that their career development The Group seeks to mitigate more than 570 students have opportunities are widened.
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy this by consistent and purposeful graduated from the college and the In line with this commitment, Honorary President investment in regional educational majority have found employment 92 employees attended courses programmes.
This approach ensures that the Group will be able within the Group.
at, or received qualifications to continue its culture of innovation.
from, higher educational The Group is collaborating with a In turn, this provides local people institutions in 2011. local university in Blagoveschensk, with career opportunities and the largest city in the Amur region, improved prospects in regions on an advanced course in with historically high levels See pages 18 to 19 of the analytical chemistry for students of unemployment.
Sustainability Report 2011 for further details 22 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information development opportunities and the educational policies supported by the Group.
The Group strives to be an employer of choice and a responsible and sustainable business.
Focus on the environment The Group believes that mining The Group uses a range of Representatives from the companies have a particular measures to monitor and control International Finance Corporation, responsibility to protect the discharges to air, soil and water.
who are shareholders in the Group, environment and to mitigate the Monitoring data is collated on a visit the Groups operations annually impact of their operations.
regular basis and samples are to monitor its commitments to examined in the Groups environmental standards.
Effective environmental laboratories, which are management has always been accredited by the state.
Petropavlovsk is working towards a priority for Petropavlovsk.
ISO 14004 Certification on a This is reflected by the Groups The Group manages its operations voluntary basis.
good environmental record since in accordance with stringent its first processing plant was Russian environmental legislation.
The Groups commitment to launched ten years ago.
Monitoring data is closely analysed environmental protection is also by the Russian authorities to shared by its executives: an The Group is committed to confirm compliance.
environmental report is prepared using its resources efficiently on a monthly basis for the and managing the chemicals it The Group is going beyond a Executive Committee and for Vera Usova uses responsibly.
The Group compliance-based approach to each Board meeting.
Head of Environmental Safety endeavours to minimise any impact environmental management by on biodiversity by ensuring wildlife aligning its current practices with and local habitats are protected at internationally recognised all stages of mine life.
The Group is standards, such as the International taking necessary measures to Cyanide Management Code.
See pages 28 to 36 of the Sustainability Report 2011 for further details Focus on community and workforce engagement Petropavlovsk views its employees Petropavlovsk gives a high priority The Foundation was established as its most valuable asset and to maintaining its good relations to centralise the Groups existing instrumental in its success to date.
The Group charitable programmes in order Since its foundation, the Group has is committed to ensuring that local to ensure funds would be better strived to be an employer of choice communities and administrative targeted to relevant causes, to attract and retain the best talent bodies are actively involved in its stimulating the sustainable in the Russian Far East by offering development plans and any socio-economic and cultural competitive wages, high-quality concerns are adequately development of local areas and equipment and training, a safe addressed in public consultations.
in turn, improving the quality of life working environment, good living The Group continues to engage in local communities.
conditions and opportunities for with local communities and career development.
The Group is address their concerns throughout Since its formation, the one of the largest employers in the the life of operations.
Foundation has donated Amur region.
approximately 107 million Roubles The Group is committed to to charitable causes in regions The Group recognises that it plays promoting the social and economic where the Group operates.
an important role in the local development of the region, and the Uliana Levanova economy and endeavours to use quality of life of those who live in it, local businesses to provide Head of Welfare and both by the widening scope of the Community Liaison support services for its operations, Groups operations and with the which in turn improves the assistance of the Petropavlovsk prospects and quality of life for Foundation for Social Investment local communities and benefits the Foundation, a charitable the Amur region as a whole.
The organisation founded in 2010 to Group is a major tax payer in the streamline the Groups charitable Amur region.
donations into one investment See pages 12 to 14 and pages 20 to vehicle.
27 of the Sustainability Report 2011 for further details 23
