About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
General information Going concern Exceptional items I FRS 11 Joint arrangements, The Group monitors and manages Exceptional items are those effective for accounting Petropavlovsk PLC the its liquidity risk on an on-going signi cant items of income and periods beginning on or after Company is a company basis.
Cash forecasts are regularly expense, which due to their nature 1 January 2013 incorporated in Great Britain and produced and sensitivities run or the expected infrequency of IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests registered in England and Wales.
for different scenarios including, the events that give rise to these in other entities, effective for The address of the registered but not limited to, changes in items should, in the opinion of the accounting periods beginning of ce is 11 Grosvenor Place, commodity prices, different Directors, be disclosed separately on or after 1 January 2013 production rates from the Groups to enable better understanding London SW1X 7HH.
producing assets and the timing of the financial performance of IFRS 13 Fair value 2.
Signi cant accounting of expenditure on development the Group.
measurement, effective for policies projects.
The Group meets its accounting periods beginning capital requirements through a 2.2.
Adoption of new and on or after 1 January 2013 2.1.
Basis of preparation and combination of sources including revised standards and IAS 28 revised Associates presentation cash generated from operations interpretations and joint ventures, effective for and external debt.
The consolidated financial There are no IFRSs or IFRIC accounting periods beginning statements of Petropavlovsk PLC interpretations that are effective on or after 1 January 2013 The Groups forecasts and and its subsidiaries the Group for the first time in the current projections, taking account of reporting period that had a have been prepared in accordance Amendments to IAS 1 Financial reasonably possible changes signi cant impact on the amounts with International Financial statement presentation, in trading performance and reported in these consolidated effective for accounting periods Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, expenditure and the mitigating financial statements.
beginning on or after 1 July 2012 IFRIC Interpretations and the actions that the Group could take Amendments to IFRS 7 in the event of adverse changes, Companies Act 2006.
The New standards, amendments and Financial instruments: show that the Group should be consolidated financial statements interpretations that are applicable Disclosures, effective for able to operate within the level of have been prepared under the to the Group, issued but not yet accounting periods beginning its secured facilities for the effective for the reporting period historical cost convention, as on or after 1 July 2011 subsequent 12 months from the beginning 1 January 2011 and not modi ed by the revaluation of date of approval of the 2011 Annual early adopted: IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the available-for-sale financial investments, financial assets and Report and Accounts.
production phase of a surface financial liabilities including IFRS 9 Financial instruments, mine, effective for accounting The Directors have a reasonable derivative instruments at fair value effective for accounting periods beginning on or after expectation that the Group has through pro t or loss.
The principal periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 adequate resources to continue 1 January 2015 accounting policies applied in the in operational existence for the preparation of these consolidated IFRS 10 Consolidated financial foreseeable future.
Thus they financial statements are set out statements, effective for below.
These policies have been continue to adopt the going accounting periods beginning consistently applied to all years concern basis of accounting in on or after 1 January 2013 preparing these consolidated presented, unless otherwise stated.
133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Non-controlling interests of subsequent changes in equity.
policies continued These consolidated financial The recognised income and The group treats transactions with statements consist of the financial expense are attributed to non-controlling interests as 2.2.
Adoption of new and statements of the Company and non-controlling interests even if transactions with equity owners.
revised standards and the entities controlled by the this results in the non-controlling For purchases from non-controlling interpretations continued Company its subsidiaries as at interests having a fide cit balance.
interests, the difference between The directors do not expect that the balance sheet date.
any consideration paid and the the adoption of the standards, 2.5. Business combinations relevant share acquired of the Subsidiaries are all entities over carrying vale of net assets of the amendments and interpretations The Group uses the acquisition which the Group has the power to method of accounting to account subsidiary is recorded in equity.
listed above will have a material govern the financial and operating for business combinations.
Gains or losses on disposals to impact on the Groups financial policies, generally accompanying a The consideration transferred for non-controlling interests are also statements, except as follows: shareholding of more than one half each acquisition is measured at recorded in equity.
IFRS 9 introduces new of the voting rights.
The existence the aggregate of the fair values requirements for classifying and and effect of potential voting rights of the assets transferred, 2.7.
Acquisition of assets measuring financial assets and that are currently exercisable or the liabilities incurred and the Frequently, the acquisition of will impact both measurement convertible are considered when mining licences is effected through equity interests issued by the and disclosure of financial assessing whether the Group Group.
Where applicable, a non-operating corporate instruments controls another entity.
As these structures Subsidiaries are fully consolidated includes the fair value of any do not represent a business, it is IFRS 12 will impact the disclosure of Groups interests from the date on which control is asset or liability arising from considered that the transactions in other entities transferred to the Group.
They are a contingent consideration do not meet the fide nition of a fide-consolidated from the date on arrangement.
IFRS 13 will impact the which control ceases.
costs are recognised in pro t or Accordingly the transaction is measurement of fair value for loss as incurred.
accounted for as the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities as Inter-company transactions, an asset.
The net assets acquired well as the associated balances and unrealised gains Identi able assets acquired and are recognised at cost.
disclosures on transactions between Group liabilities and contingent liabilities IFRIC 20 will impact asset companies are eliminated on assumed in a business combination Where the Group has full control but recognition criteria and consolidation.
Unrealised losses are measured initially at their fair does not own 100% of the assets, are also eliminated unless the classi cation of costs from a values at the acquisition date.
then non-controlling interests are transaction provides evidence recognised at an equivalent amount stripping activity which provide of an impairment of the asset The Group recognises any based on the Groups cost, the improved access to the ore body transferred.
Where necessary, non-controlling interest in the assets continue to be carried at cost as well as amortisation period adjustments are made to the acquiree at fair value or at the and changes in those values are financial statements of subsidiaries non-controlling interests recognised in equity.
2.3 Comparatives to ensure consistency of proportionate share of the Prepayments for property, plant and equipment of US$207.1 million accounting policies with the acquirees net assets, on an 2.8.
Interests in joint ventures policies adopted by the Group.
A joint venture is a contractual US$41.6 million previously arrangement whereby the Group Non-controlling interests in the The excess of the consideration and other parties undertake an reported within current assets net assets of consolidated transferred the amount of any economic activity that is subject to as prepayments for property, subsidiaries are identi ed non-controlling interest in the joint control i. e. when the strategic plant and equipment were separately from the Groups equity acquiree and the acquisition date financial and operating policy reclassi ed to non-current assets.
The reclassi cation was carried therein.
The interests of nonfair value of any previous equity decisions relating to the activities controlling shareholders may be out to ensure a better interest in the acquiree over the fair of the joint venture require the initially measured at fair value or representation in the Groups value of the Groups share of the unanimous consent of the parties at the non-controlling interests identi able net assets acquired is sharing control.
Joint venture consolidated assets that are proportionate share of the fair recorded as goodwill.
If this is less arrangements that involve the expected to be realised within value of the acquirees identi able than the fair value of the net assets establishment of a separate entity more than twelve months after net assets.
The choice of of the subsidiary acquired in the in which each venture has an the reporting period.
measurement is made on an case of a bargain purchase, the interest are referred to as jointly  basis.
difference is recognised directly controlled entities.
Subsequent to acquisition, in the statement of recognised the carrying amount of nonincome and expenses.
controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the noncontrolling interests share 134 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information The Groups interests in jointly The Groups share of its joint Any excess of the cost of controlled entities are accounted ventures post-acquisition pro ts acquisition over the Groups for by using the equity method of or losses is recognised in the share of the net fair value of the accounting, except when the income statement and its share identi able assets, liabilities and investment is classi ed as held for of post-acquisition movements in contingent liabilities of the sale, in which case it is accounted reserves is recognised in reserves.
associate recognised at the date for in accordance with IFRS 5 The cumulative post-acquisition of acquisition is recognised as Non-current Assets Held for Sale movements are adjusted against goodwill.
The goodwill is included and Discontinued Operations.
the carrying amount of the within the carrying amount of the Interests in joint ventures are investment in joint ventures.
investment and is assessed for carried in the balance sheet at cost impairment as part of that as adjusted by post-acquisition 2.9.
Any excess of the changes in the Groups share of An associate is an entity over Groups share of the net fair the net assets of the associate, which the Group is in a position to value of the identi able assets, less any impairment in the value exercise signi cant in uence and liabilities and contingent liabilities of individual investments.
that is neither a subsidiary nor an over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised interest in a joint venture.
Any excess of the cost of Signi cant in uence is the power immediately in pro t or loss.
acquisition over the Groups to participate in the financial and share of the net fair value of the operating policy decisions of the When a Group entity transacts identi able assets, liabilities and investee but is not control or joint with an associate of the Group, contingent liabilities of the jointly control over those policies.
pro ts and losses are eliminated to controlled entity recognised at the the extent of the Groups interest in date of acquisition is recognised as the relevant associate.
Losses may Investments in associates are goodwill.
The goodwill is included accounted for using the equity provide evidence of an impairment within the carrying amount of the method of accounting, except of the asset transferred in which investment and is assessed for when the investment is classi ed case appropriate provision is made impairment as part of that as held for sale, in which case it is for the impairment.
Any excess of the accounted for in accordance with Groups share of the net fair value IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held 2.10.
Foreign currency of the identi able assets, for Sale and Discontinued translation liabilities and contingent liabilities Operations.
Investments in Items included in the financial over the cost of acquisition, associates are carried in the statements of each of the Groups after reassessment, is recognised balance sheet at cost as adjusted entities are measured using the immediately in pro t or loss.
by post-acquisition changes in the currency of the primary economic Groups share of the net assets of environment in which the entity the associate, less any impairment operates the functional currency.
in the value of individual For the purpose of the investments.
Losses of an consolidated financial statements, associate in excess of the Groups the results and financial position interest in that associate which of each Group company are includes any long-term interests expressed in US Dollars, which is that, in substance, form part of the Groups presentation currency.
the Groups net investment in the The functional currency of the associate are recognised only to Company is the US Dollar.
the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
The rates of exchange used to translate balances from other currencies into US Dollars were as follows currency per US Dollar : Average year As at ended 31 As at Average year ended 31 December 2011 December 2011 31 December 2010 31 December 2010 GB Pounds Sterling GBP : US$ 0.65 0.62 0.64 0.65 Russian Rouble RUR : US$ 32.20 29.39 30.48 30.36 135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Intangible assets accumulated exchange Mineral rights acquired through a policies continued differences in respect of that Exploration and evaluation business combination or an asset operation attributable to the expenditure and mineral rights acquisition are capitalised 2.10.
Foreign currency shareholders of the Company acquired separately from goodwill if the translation continued are reclassi ed to pro t or loss.
Exploration and evaluation asset is separable or arises from In preparing the financial expenditure incurred in relation contractual or legal rights and the statements of the individual Goodwill and fair value to those projects where such fair value can be measured reliably companies, transactions in adjustments arising on the expenditure is considered likely on initial recognition.
acquisition of a foreign operation currencies other than the entitys to be recoverable through future are treated as assets and liabilities Exploration and evaluation functional currency foreign extraction activity or sale, or where of the foreign operation.
expenditure capitalised and mining currencies are translated into the exploration activities have not reached a stage which permits a rights acquired are subsequently the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 2.11.
Goodwill reasonable assessment of the valued at cost less impairment.
dates of the transactions or Goodwill represents the excess of existence of reserves, are In circumstances where a project valuation where items are the cost of an acquisition over the capitalised and recorded on the is abandoned, the cumulative remeasured.
Foreign exchange fair value of the Groups share of balance sheet within intangible capitalised costs related to the project are written off in the period gains and losses resulting from the the net identi able assets of a assets for mining projects at the subsidiary, associate or joint when such decision is made.
settlement of such transactions exploration stage.
venture at the date of acquisition.
and from the translation at the year-end exchange rates of Goodwill on acquisition of a Exploration and evaluation Exploration and evaluation monetary assets and liabilities subsidiary is included in nonexpenditure comprise costs expenditure capitalised and mining denominated in foreign currencies current assets as a separate line directly attributable to: rights within intangible assets are are recognised in the income item.
Goodwill is tested annually for not depreciated.
These assets are Researching and analysing transferred to mine development statement.
Non-monetary items impairment and carried at cost less existing exploration data: accumulated impairment losses.
costs within property, plant and carried at fair value that are Impairment losses on goodwill are equipment when a decision is denominated in foreign currencies Conducting geological studies, not reversed.
Gains and losses on exploratory drilling and sampling: taken to proceed with the are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was the disposal of an entity include the development of the project.
Examining and testing extraction determined.
Non-monetary items carrying amount of goodwill and treatment methods: that are measured in terms of relating to the entity sold.
Property, plant and historical cost in a foreign currency on acquisition of an associate or a Compiling pre-feasibility and equipment are not retranslated.
joint venture is included in the feasibility studies: and Land and buildings, plant and carrying amount of investment and equipment Costs incurred in acquiring is tested for impairment as part of For the purpose of presenting On initial recognition, land, mineral rights, the entry consolidated financial statements, the overall balance.
property, plant and equipment are premiums paid to gain access the assets and liabilities of the valued at cost, being the purchase to areas of interest and amounts Groups foreign operations which Goodwill is allocated to those price and the directly attributable payable to third parties to acquire have a functional currency other cash-generating units or groups cost of acquisition or construction interests in existing projects.
than US Dollars are translated at of cash-generating units that required to bring the asset to the are expected to bene t from exchange rates prevailing on the location and condition necessary the synergies of the business balance sheet date.
Income and for the asset to be capable of combination in which the expense items are translated at the operating in the manner intended average exchange rates for the goodwill arose.
year, unless exchange rates uctuate signi cantly during that The excess of the acquirers year, in which case the exchange interest in the net fair value of the rates at the date of transactions are identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired over used.
Exchange differences cost is recognised immediately in arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and the income statement.
expenses and accumulated in equity, with share attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate.
On the disposal of a foreign operation, all of the 136 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Assets in the course of Subsequent costs are included Certain property, plant and construction are capitalised in the in the assets carrying amount or equipment within mining assets capital construction in progress recognised as a separate asset, are depreciated based on account.
On completion, the cost as appropriate, only when it is estimated useful lives, if shorter of construction is transferred to the probable that future economic than the remaining life of the mine appropriate category of property, bene ts associated with the item or if such property, plant and plant and equipment.
will ow to the Group and the cost equipment can be moved to of the item can be measured another site subsequent to the reliably.
All other repairs and mine closure.
Development expenditure Development expenditure incurred maintenance are charged to by or on behalf of the Group is the income statement during Mining assets related to alluvial accumulated separately for each the financial period in which they gold operations are depreciated area of interest in which are incurred.
on a straight-line basis based on economically recoverable estimated useful lives.
resources have been identi ed.
Depreciation Such expenditure includes costs Property, plant and equipment Non-mining assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis directly attributable to the are depreciated using a units of construction of a mine and the production method or on a based on estimated useful lives.
Once a straight-line basis as set out below.
development decision has been Mine development costs and taken, the carrying amount of the Mining assets, except for those capital construction in progress exploration and evaluation related to alluvial gold operations, are not depreciated, except for expenditure in respect of the area where economic bene ts from the that property plant and equipment used in the development of a mine.
of interest is aggregated with the asset are consumed in a pattern development expenditure and which is linked to the production Such property, plant and classi ed under non-current level, are depreciated using a units equipment are depreciated on assets as mine development of production method based on a straight-line basis based on costs.
Mine development costs the volume of ore reserves, estimated useful lives and are reclassi ed as mining assets which results in a depreciation depreciation is capitalised as at the end of the commissioning charge proportional to the part of mine development costs.
phase, when the mine is capable depletion of reserves.
The basis for Residual values and useful lives of operating in the manner determining ore reserve estimates intended by management.
Where the are reviewed and adjusted if No depreciation is recognised in mining plan anticipates future appropriate, at each balance sheet respect of mine development capital expenditure to support the date.
Changes to the estimated costs until they are reclassi ed as mining activity over the life of the residual values or useful lives are mining assets.
Mine development mine, the depreciable amount is accounted for prospectively.
costs are tested for impairment adjusted for such estimated in accordance with the policy in future expenditure.
Estimated useful lives normally vary as set out below.
Average life Number of years Buildings 15 50 Plant and machinery 3 20 Vehicles 5 7 Of ce equipment 5 10 Computer equipment 3 5 137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Deferred stripping costs IAS 36 Impairment of assets estimated on the basis of a closure policies continued includes a number of restrictions In open-pit mining operations, plan.
The cost estimates are on the future cash ows that can removal of overburden and other calculated annually during the life 2.14.
Impairment of be recognised in respect of future waste materials, referred to as of the operation to re ect known nonfinancial assets restructurings and improvement stripping, is required to obtain developments and are subject to Property, plant and equipment related capital expenditure.
When access to the ore body.
formal review at regular intervals.
and nite life intangible assets are calculating value in use, it also reviewed by management for requires that calculations should be Stripping costs incurred during The amortisation or unwinding of based on exchange rates current at the development of the mine are the discount applied in establishing impairment if there is any indication the time of the assessment.
capitalised as part of mine the net present value of provisions that the carrying amount may not development costs and are is charged to the income statement be recoverable.
This applies to the For operations with a functional subsequently depreciated over in each accounting period.
Groups share of the assets held by the joint ventures as well as the currency other than the US Dollar, the life of a mine on a units of The amortisation of the discount assets held by the Group itself.
the impairment review is undertaken production basis.
is shown as a nancing cost, in the relevant functional currency.
rather than as an operating cost.
Stripping costs incurred during the When a review for impairment These estimates are based on Other movements in the provisions detailed mine plans and operating production phase of a mine are for close down and restoration is conducted, the recoverable budgets, modi ed as appropriate deferred as part of cost of inventory costs, including those resulting amount is assessed by reference to meet the requirements of IAS 36 and are written off to the income from new disturbance, updated to the higher of value in use being the net present value of Impairment of assets.
statement in the period over which cost estimates, changes to the lives expected future cash ows of the economic bene ts related to the of operations and revisions to relevant cash generating unit or The discount rate applied is stripping activity are realised where discount rates are capitalised fair value less costs to sell.
based upon a pre-tax discount this is the most appropriate basis within property, plant and rate that re ects current market for matching the costs against the equipment.
These costs are then Where there is no binding sale assessments of the time value of related economic bene ts.
depreciated over the lives of the agreement or active market, money and the risks associated assets to which they relate.
fair value less costs to sell is based with the relevant cash ows, to the Where, during the production on the best information available to re ect the amount the Group could extent that such risks are not phase, further development of the Where rehabilitation is conducted receive for the cash generating unit re ected in the forecast cash ows.
mine requires a phase of unusually systematically over the life of the in an arms length transaction.
high overburden removal activity operation, rather than at the time that is similar in nature to preFuture cash ows are based on: If the carrying amount of the asset of closure, provision is made for exceeds its recoverable amount, production mine development, the outstanding continuous estimates of the quantities the asset is impaired and an such stripping costs are rehabilitation work at each balance of the reserves and mineral impairment loss is charged to the considered in a manner consistent sheet date.
All other costs of resources for which there is a income statement so as to reduce with stripping costs incurred continuous rehabilitation are high degree of con dence of the carrying amount in the balance during the development of the charged to the income statement economic extraction: sheet to its recoverable amount.
mine before the commercial as incurred.
future production levels: A previously recognised production commences.
impairment loss is reversed if the 2.17.
Financial instruments future commodity prices recoverable amount increases as a 2.16.
Provisions for close down Financial instruments recognised assuming the current market result of a reversal of the conditions and restoration costs in the balance sheet include prices will revert to the Groups that originally resulted in the Close down and restoration costs cash and cash equivalents, assessment of the long-term impairment.
This reversal is include the dismantling and other investments, trade and average price, generally over a recognised in the income demolition of infrastructure and the other receivables, borrowings, period of up to five years : and statement and is limited to the removal of residual materials and derivatives and trade and future cash costs of production, carrying amount that would have remediation of disturbed areas.
been determined, net of capital expenditure, environment Close down and restoration costs depreciation, had no impairment are provided for in the accounting Financial instruments are initially protection, rehabilitation and loss been recognised in prior years.
period when the legal or measured at fair value when the closure.
constructive obligation arising Group becomes a party to their from the related disturbance contractual arrangements.
occurs, whether this occurs during Transaction costs are included in the mine development or during the initial measurement of financial the production phase, based on instruments, except financial instruments classi ed as at fair the net present value of estimated future costs.
Provisions for close value through pro t or loss.
down and restoration costs do not The subsequent measurement include any additional obligations of financial instruments is dealt which are expected to arise from with below.
The costs are 138 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Financial assets Trade receivables Financial liabilities in other comprehensive income and Financial assets are classi ed into accumulated under the heading of Trade receivables are measured Financial liabilities, other than the following speci ed categories: other reserve in equity.
When the on initial recognition at fair value derivatives, are measured on initial financial assets at fair value investment is disposed of or is and are subsequently measured at recognition at fair value and are through pro t or loss, held-todetermined to be impaired, the amortised cost using the effective subsequently measured at maturity investments, availablecumulative gain or loss previously interest rate method.
Impairment amortised cost, using the effective for-sale financial assets and loans accumulated in equity is reclassi ed of trade receivables is established interest rate method.
The classi cation to the income statement.
when there is objective evidence depends on the nature and as a result of a loss event that the Borrowings purpose of the financial assets and Loans and receivables Group will not be able to collect all Borrowings are recognised initially is determined at the time of initial Loans and receivables are amounts due according to the at fair value, net of transaction recognition.
Financial assets are non-derivative financial assets xed original terms of the receivables.
Borrowings are recognised at trade-date, the date or determinable payments that are The amount of the impairment subsequently stated at amortised on which the Group commits to not quoted on an active market.
is the difference between the cost: any difference between the purchase the asset.
The Group Loans and receivables are assets carrying amount and the proceeds net of transaction costs does not hold any financial assets present value of estimated future recognised initially at fair value and and the redemption value is which meet the fide nition of cash ows, discounted at the recognised in the income subsequently measured at held-to-maturity investments.
amortised cost using the effective original effective interest rate.
statement over the period of the interest method, less any The impairment is recognised borrowings using the effective Financial assets at fair value impairment.
Interest income is in the income statement.
through pro t or loss recognised by applying the effective This category has two subinterest rate, except for short-term Other investments The fair value of the liability portion categories: financial assets held receivables when the recognition Listed investments and unlisted of a convertible bond is determined for trading, and those designated of interest would be immaterial.
equity investments, other than using a market interest rate for an investments in subsidiaries, joint equivalent non-convertible bond.
at fair value through pro t or loss at inception.
A financial asset is Effective interest method ventures and associates, are This amount is recorded as a classi ed in this category if The effective interest rate method classi ed as available-for-sale liability on an amortised cost basis acquired principally for the purpose is a method of calculating the financial assets and subsequently until extinguished on conversion of selling in the short term or if so amortised cost of a financial asset measured at fair value.
Fair values or maturity of the bonds.
and of allocating interest income for unlisted equity investments The remainder of the proceeds is Derivatives are also categorised over the relevant period.
are estimated using methods allocated to the conversion option.
re ecting the economic This is recognised and included in as held for trading unless they are The effective interest rate is designated as hedges.
Assets in circumstances of the investee.
shareholders equity, net of income the rate that exactly discounts this category are classi ed as estimated future cash receipts Equity investments for which fair tax effects.
current if they are either held for through the expected life of the value cannot be measured reliably trading or are expected to be financial asset, or where are recognised at cost less Borrowings are classi ed as realised within 12 months of the appropriate, a shorter period, impairment.
Changes in the current liabilities unless the Group balance sheet date.
to the net carrying amount on carrying amount of availablehas an unconditional right to defer initial recognition.
for-sale financial assets settlement of the liability for at are recognised in other least 12 months after the balance Available-for-sale financial comprehensive income and sheet date.
assets Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are accumulated under the heading Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets fide ned as cash on hand, demand of investments revaluation reserve that are either designated in this deposits and short-term, highly in equity.
When the investment is category or not classi ed in any liquid investments readily disposed of or is determined to be of the other categories.
They are convertible to known amounts of impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the included within non-current assets cash and subject to insigni cant investments revaluation reserve unless the investment matures or risk of changes in value and are is reclassi ed to the income management intends to dispose of measured at cost which is deemed to be fair value as they have a statement as gains and losses them within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
sale financial assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in the carrying amount of available-forsale financial assets are recognised 139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Signi cant accounting Equity instruments 2.19.
Leases policies continued An equity instrument is any Inventories are valued at the lower Leases of property, plant and contract that evidences a residual of cost and net realisable value equipment where the Group has 2.17.
Financial instruments interest in the assets of the Group after appropriate allowances for substantially all the risks and continued after deducting all of its liabilities.
redundant and slow moving items.
rewards of ownership are classi ed Derivative financial Equity instruments issued are Net realisable value represents as finance leases.
Finance leases instruments recorded at the proceeds estimated selling price in the are capitalised at the leases In accordance with IAS 39 the received, net of direct issue cost.
ordinary course of business less inception at the lower of the fair any further costs expected to be value of the leased property and the fair value of all derivatives are Impairment of financial assets incurred to completion.
Cost is present value of the minimum lease separately recorded on the The Group assesses at each determined on the following bases: payments.
Each lease payment is balance sheet.
Derivatives is balance sheet date whether there allocated between the liability and initially recognised at fair value at Gold in process is valued at the is objective evidence that a finance charges so as to achieve a the date the derivative contracts average total production cost at financial asset or a group of constant rate on the finance balance are entered into and are the relevant stage of production: subsequently remeasured to their financial assets is impaired.
The corresponding Gold on hand is valued on an rental obligations, net of finance fair value at the balance sheet date.
case of equity securities classi ed as available-for-sale, a signi cant average total production cost charges, are included in borrowings.
The resulting gain or loss is or prolonged decline in the fair method: The interest element of the finance recognised in the income value of the security below its cost cost is charged to the income statement immediately unless the Ore stockpiles are valued at the is considered in determining statement over the lease period derivative is designated and average moving cost of mining whether the securities are so as to produce a constant effective as a hedging instrument, and stockpiling the ore. in which event the timing of the impaired.
If any such evidence periodic rate of interest on the Stockpiles are allocated as a recognition in the income exists for available-for-sale financial remaining balance of the liability non-current asset where the for each period.
statement depends on the nature assets, the cumulative loss stockpile exceeds current measured as the difference of the hedge relationship.
processing capacity: between the acquisition cost and Leases where the lessor retains the current fair value, less any Consumable stores are valued substantially all the risks and Derivatives embedded in other impairment loss on that financial at average cost: and rewards of ownership are financial instruments or nonasset previously recognised in classi ed as operating leases.
financial host contracts are treated Heap-leach pad materials are as separate derivatives when their pro t or loss is removed from Payments made under operating measured on an average total leases net of any incentives risks and characteristics are not equity and recognised in the production cost basis.
Impairment received from the lessor are closely related to their hostof materials on the leach pad losses recognised in the income charged to the income statement contract and the host contract from which gold is expected to statement on equity instruments on a straight-line basis over the is not carried at fair value.
be recovered in a period greater are not reversed.
Embedded derivatives are than 12 months is classi ed as recognised at fair value at a non-current asset.
Revenue recognition value of the embedded derivatives Provisions are recognised when Revenue is recognised at the fair A portion of the related depreciation, is recognised in operating pro t the Group has a present obligation, value of the consideration received depletion and amortisation charge or receivable to the extent that it is within the income statement.
whether legal or constructive, as a relating to production is included in result of a past event for which it is probable that the economic Embedded derivatives which are the cost of inventory.
probable that an out ow of bene ts will ow to the Group settled net are disclosed in line with resources embodying economic and the revenue can be reliably the maturity of their host contracts.
As described in note 2.15, deferred bene ts will be required to settle measured.
Revenue derived from stripping costs are included in The fair value of embedded the obligation and a reliable goods and services comprises the inventories where appropriate.
derivatives is determined by using estimate can be made of the fair value of the sale of goods and services to third parties, net of market prices where available.
value added tax, rebates and In other cases, fair value will Provisions are measured at the discounts.
The following criteria be calculated using quotations present value of managements must also be present: from independent financial best estimate of the expenditure institutions, or by using appropriate The sale of mining products is valuation techniques.
required to settle the obligation recognised when the signi cant at the balance sheet date.
risks and rewards of ownership Trade payables The discount rate used to of the products are transferred to Trade payables are recognised determine the present value the buyer: re ects current market initially at fair value and subsequently assessments of the time value measured at amortised cost using of money and the risks speci c the effective interest method.
140 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 2.23.
Taxation Revenue derived from services Deferred tax assets are The fair values of equity-settled is recognised in the accounting Tax expense for the period recognised only to the extent share-based payment awards are period in which the services comprises current and deferred that it is more likely than not that determined at the dates of grant are rendered: tax.
Tax is recognised in the they will be recovered.
using a Black-Scholes model for income statement, except to those awards vesting based on Revenue from bulk sample sales the extent that it relates to items Deferred tax is provided in respect operating performance conditions made during the exploration recognised in the statement of of fair value adjustments on and Monte Carlo model for those or development phases of comprehensive income or directly acquisitions.
These adjustments awards vesting based on market operations is recognised as a in equity.
In this case, the tax is also may relate to assets such as related performance conditions.
sale in the income statement: recognised in the statement of mining rights that, in general, Dividends are recognised when comprehensive income or directly are not eligible for income tax The estimate of the number of the the right to receive payment is in equity, respectively.
In such cases, the awards likely to vest is reviewed at established: and provision for deferred tax is based each balance sheet date up to the Current tax is the tax expected to on the difference between the vesting date, at which point the Interest is recognised on a time be payable on the taxable income carrying value of the asset and estimate is adjusted to re ect the proportion basis, taking account for the year calculated using rates its nil income tax base.
The impact of the principal outstanding and that have been enacted or of the revision of the original the effective rate over the period substantively enacted by the Deferred tax is calculated at the estimates, if any, is recognised in to maturity, when it is determined balance sheet date.
It includes tax rates that are expected to apply the income statement so that the that such income will accrue to adjustments for tax expected to be in the period when the liability is cumulative expense re ects the the Group.
payable or recoverable in respect settled or the asset is realised revised estimate, with a of previous periods.
using tax rates that have been corresponding adjustment to the 2.22.
Borrowing costs enacted, or substantively enacted.
share-based payments reserve Borrowing costs are generally Full provision is made for deferred Deferred tax is charged or credited within equity.
expensed as incurred except taxation on all temporary in the income statement, except where they relate to the nancing differences existing at the balance when it relates to items charged or 2.25.
Employee Bene t Trust of acquisition, construction or sheet date with certain limited credited directly to equity, in which Certain Ordinary Shares development of qualifying assets, exceptions.
Temporary differences case the deferred tax is also dealt underlying the share-based which are mining projects under are the difference between the within equity.
payment awards granted are held development that necessarily take carrying value of an asset or by the Employee Bene t Trust.
a substantial period of time to get liability and its tax base.
The main Deferred tax assets and liabilities Details of employee bene t trust prepared for their intended use.
exceptions to this principle are are offset when there is a legally arrangements are set out in note Such borrowing costs are as follows: enforceable right to set-off current 30.
The carrying value of shares capitalised and added to mine tax assets against current tax held by the employee bene t trust development costs of the mining Tax payable on the future liabilities, when they relate to are recorded as treasury shares, project when the decision is made remittance of the past earnings income taxes levied by the same shown as a deduction to to proceed with the development of subsidiaries, associates and taxation authority and the Group shareholders equity.
of the project and until such time jointly controlled entities is intends to settle its current tax provided for except where the when the project is substantially assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Company is able to control the ready for its intended use, which is when commercial remittance of pro ts and it is 2.24.
Share-based payments production is ready to commence.
probable that there will be no The Group has a number of remittance in the foreseeable equity-settled share-based To the extent that funds are future: payment arrangements in place, borrowed to finance a speci c Deferred tax is not provided on details of which are set out in mining project, borrowing costs the initial recognition of goodwill note 30. capitalised represent the actual or from the initial recognition borrowing costs incurred.
To the of an asset or liability in a Equity-settled share-based extent that funds are borrowed for transaction that does not affect payment awards are measured at the general purpose, borrowing accounting pro t or taxable fair value at the grant date.
The fair costs capitalised are determined pro t and is not a business values determined at the grant by applying the interest rate combination, such as on the date are recognised as an expense applicable to appropriate recognition of a provision for on a straight-line basis over the borrowings outstanding during the close down and restoration expected vesting period with a period to the average amount of costs and the related asset corresponding adjustment to the capital expenditure incurred to or on the inception of finance share-based payments reserve develop the relevant mining project lease: and within equity.
141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Areas of judgement in resources in addition to ore on existence of reserves or Discount rate to be applied to the applying accounting policies reserves where there is a high whether an economically viable future cash ows, being the and key sources of estimation degree of con dence that such extraction operation can be pre-tax weighted average uncertainty resources will be extracted.
Such estimates and nominal cost of capital, assumptions may change from calculated by management, When preparing the consolidated Ore reserve estimates may change period to period as new being in the range between financial statements in accordance from period to period as additional information becomes available.
11.0% and 12.3% for precious with the accounting policies as set geological data becomes available If, subsequent to the exploration metals mining projects and 9.6% during the course of operations and evaluation expenditure being and 12.9% for IRC mining out in note 2, management or economic assumptions used capitalised, a judgement is made projects, depending on the risk necessarily makes judgements and to estimate reserves change.
that recovery of the expenditure is inherent to a particular project.
estimates that can have a signi cant Such changes in estimated unlikely or the project is to be impact on the financial statements.
These judgements and estimates reserves may affect the Groups abandoned, the relevant Subsequent changes to CGU are based on managements best financial results and financial capitalised amount will be written allocation or estimates and knowledge of the relevant facts position in a number of ways, off to the income statement.
assumptions in the value in use and circumstances and previous including the following: calculation could impact the carrying value of the respective experience.
Impairment Asset carrying values due to The Group reviews the carrying assets.
The impairment differ from these estimates changes in estimated future values of its tangible and intangible assessments are sensitive to under different assumptions cash ows: and conditions.
assets to determine whether there changes in commodity prices Depreciation charged in the is any indication that those assets and discount rates.
Changes to Areas of judgement that have income statement where such are impaired and tests goodwill for these assumptions would result the most signi cant effect on the charges are determined by using impairment annually.
in changes to impairment a units of production method or conclusions, which could amounts recognised in the financial where the useful economic lives The recoverable amount of an have a signi cant effect on the statements are set out below.
of assets are determined with asset, or CGU, is measured as the consolidated financial statements.
reference to the life of the mine: higher of fair value less costs to sell In particular, with all other 3.1.
Ore reserve estimates and value in use.
assumptions being constant, The Group estimates its ore Provisions for close down and reserves and mineral resources a reduction in the estimated restoration costs where changes based on the Australasian Code Management necessarily apply long-term gold price below $1,500 in estimated reserves affect for Reporting of Exploration their judgement in allocating oz would result in impairment of expectations about the timing of certain mining assets within Results, Mineral Resources and assets to CGUs as well as in the payment of such costs: and making assumptions to be applied precious metals segment.
Ore Reserves of December 2004 Carrying value of deferred tax within the value in use calculation.
the JORC Code, adjusted to assets and liabilities where 3.4 Deferred stripping costs conform with the mining activity to be undertaken under the Group changes in estimated reserves The key assumptions which The calculation of deferred mining plan.
The JORC Code affect the carrying value of the formed the basis of forecasting stripping costs requires the use of requires the use of reasonable relevant assets and liabilities.
future cash ows and the value in estimates to assess the improved investment assumptions when use calculation as of 31 December access to the ore to be mined in 3.2.
Exploration and 2011 are: future periods.
Changes to the reporting reserves, including future evaluation costs Groups mining plan and pit design production estimates, expected The successful extraction and The Groups accounting policy for may result in changes to the timing future commodity prices and processing of the reserves in exploration and evaluation of realization of the stripping production cash costs.
accordance with the available expenditure results in exploration activity.
As a result, there could ore reserves and mineral Ore reserve estimates are used in and evaluation expenditure being be signi cant adjustments to the resources and sale of the the calculation of depreciation of capitalised for those projects amounts of deferred stripping commodity produced: mining assets using a units of where such expenditure is costs capitalised and their Commodity prices are internal classi cation between current production method, impairment considered likely to be recoverable through future extraction activity forecasts by management and non-current assets.
charges and for forecasting the or sale or where the exploration based on the forecasts of timing of the payment of close activities have not reached a stage industry market researchers, down and restoration costs.
Also, for the purpose of impairment which permits a reasonable being US$1,700 oz for gold, review and the assessment of life assessment of the existence of US$130 tonne for iron ore of mine for forecasting the timing reserves.
This policy requires concentrate and US$208.1 tonne for ilmenite: of the payment of close down and management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to restoration costs, the Group may Costs, which are internal future events and circumstances, take into account mineral forecasts prepared by in particular whether the Group will management, adjusted for future proceed with development based in ation rates in countries of operation: and 142 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 3.5.
Segmental information The actual costs may be different restoration costs from those estimated due to of deferred tax assets Costs associated with restoration changes in relevant laws and Deferred tax assets, including The Group has three reportable and rehabilitation of mining sites regulations, changes in prices as those arising from tax losses segments under IFRS 8 which are typical for extractive industries well as changes to the restoration carried forward for the future tax re ect the way the Groups and are normally incurred at the techniques.
The actual timing of periods, capital losses and businesses are managed end of the life of the mine.
cash out ows may be also temporary differences, are and reported: Provision is recognised for each different from those estimated due recognised only where it is P recious metals segment, to changes in the life of the mine as mining site for such costs considered more likely than not comprising gold operations at discounted to their net present a result of changes in ore reserves that they will be recovered.
The different stages, from eld value, as soon as the obligation to or processing levels.
As a result, likelihood of such recoverability is exploration through to mine incur such costs arises.
The costs there could be signi cant dependent on the generation of development and gold are estimated on the basis of the adjustments to the provision for suf cient future taxable pro ts production.
The precious metals scope of site restoration and close down and restoration costs which relevant deferred tax asset segment includes the Groups rehabilitation activity in accordance established which would affect can be utilised to offset.
principal mines Pokrovskiy, with the mine closure plan and future financial results.
Pioneer, Malomir and Albyn, the represent managements best Assumptions about the generation Groups alluvial operations and estimate of the expenditure that 3.6.
Tax provisions of future taxable pro ts depend the Groups operations under will be incurred.
Estimates are and tax legislation on managements estimates of gold joint venture arrangements reviewed annually as new The Group is subject to income tax future cash ows.
Judgements as well as various gold projects information becomes available.
in the UK, Russian Federation, are also required about the at the exploration and Cyprus and Hong Kong.
application of income tax development stages.
The initial provision for close down Assessing the outcome of legislation.
These judgements and and restoration costs together with uncertain tax positions requires assumptions are subject to risk and IRC segment, comprising IRC other movements in the provision, uncertainty and there is a possibility Limited and its subsidiaries.
IRC judgements to be made.
The including those resulting from Group recognises liabilities for that changes in circumstances will segment includes iron ore updated cost estimates, changes anticipated tax issues based on alter expectations, which may projects Kuranakh, K&S, to the estimated lives of the mines, estimates of whether additional impact the amount of deferred tax Garinskoye, Bolshoi Seym, and revisions to discount rates are taxes will be due, such estimates assets recognised on the balance Kostenginskoye and Garinskoye capitalised within mine are based on the status of sheet and the amount of other tax Flanks projects, engineering and development costs or mining on-going discussions with the losses and temporary differences scienti c operations represented assets of property, plant and not yet recognised.
In such by Giproruda, project for design relevant tax authorities and advice equipment.
Capitalised costs are circumstances, the carrying and development of a titanium from independent tax advisers.
depreciated over the life of the mine amount of recognised deferred tax sponge production plant in they relate to and the provision is assets may require adjustment, China, project for production of increased each period via resulting in a corresponding charge vanadium pentoxides and unwinding the discount on the or credit to the income statement.
related products in China as well provision.
Changes to the estimated as various other projects.
future costs are recognised in the The Other segment, comprising balance sheet by adjusting both the the in-house geological asset and the provision.
exploration expertise performed by the Groups exploration companies Regis and Dalgeologiya, the in-house construction and engineering expertise performed by the Groups specialist construction company Kapstroi and the engineering and scienti c operations represented by PHM Engineering and Irgiredmet as well as procurement of materials such as reagents and consumables and equipment for third parties undertaken by Irgiredmet.
143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 4.
Segment information continued Precious metals IRC Other Consolidated 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue Gold 1,093,507 1,093,507 Silver 7,817 7,817 Iron ore concentrate 110,388 110,388 Other external revenue 11,820 38,958 50,778 Inter-segment revenue 2,869 328,414 331,283 Intra-group eliminations 2,869 328,414 331,283 Total Group revenue from external customers 1,101,324 122,208 38,958 1,262,490 Net operating expenses 602,089 101,415 43,582 747,086 including Depreciation and amortisation 118,564 11,287 2,351 132,202 Impairment 40,103 1,975 42,078 Share of results in joint ventures 846 514 1,360 Segment result 498,389 20,279 4,624 514,044 Before exceptional items 486,353 18,840 4,624 500,569 a a Exceptional items 12,036 1,439 13,475 b Central administration 89,743 Unallocated impairment of non-trading loans 14,241 Foreign exchange losses 9,833 Operating pro t 400,227 Investment income 3,119 Interest expense 39,641 Other finance losses 2,381 Taxation 120,835 Pro t for the period 240,489 Segment Assets 2,077,779 846,981 216,494 3,141,254 Segment Liabilities 103,391 22,832 56,567 182,790 c Goodwill 21,675 Deferred tax net 173,469 Unallocated cash 107,836 Loans given 263 Borrowings 1,006,838 Net Assets 1,907,931 Other segment information Additions to non-current assets: Exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised within intangible assets 55,497 12,406 226 68,129 Other additions to intangible assets 2,569 2,569 Capital expenditure 516,724 81,202 22,263 620,189 Other items capitalised 36,832 426 37,258 Average number of employees 6,670 2,226 4,489 13,385 a See note 6. b Including central administration expenses of IRC Limited of US$23 million.
c In making the assessment for impairment, goodwill is allocated to the group of cash generating units likely to bene t from acquisition-related synergies note 13.
144 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Precious metals IRC Other Consolidated 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue Gold 557,853 557,853 Silver 3,853 3,853 Iron ore concentrate 12,594 12,594 Other external sales 13,198 24,518 37,716 Inter-segment revenue 6,146 231,083 237,229 Intra-group eliminations 6,146 231,083 237,229 Total Group revenue from external customers 561,706 25,792 24,518 612,016 Net operating expenses 315,042 74,540 39,755 429,337 Including Depreciation and amortisation 60,247 4,915 8,290 73,452 Impairment 8,868 35,973 44,841 Share of results in joint ventures 3,033 135 3,168 Segment result 243,631 48,883 15,237 179,511 Before exceptional items 214,749 13,939 15,237 185,573 d d Exceptional items 28,882 34,944 6,062 e Central administration 73,471 Foreign exchange losses 3,165 Operating pro t 102,875 Investment income 6,525 Interest expense 32,172 Other finance losses 8,029 Taxation 46,228 Pro t for the period 22,971 Segment Assets 1,365,221 856,146 208,093 2,429,460 Segment Liabilities 58,893 55,807 48,857 163,557 f Goodwill 21,675 Deferred tax net 126,768 Derivative financial instruments net 2,381 Unallocated cash 17,506 Loans given 10,369 Borrowings 492,118 Net Assets 1,698,948 Other segment information Additions to non-current assets: Exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised within intangible assets 60,095 3,323 337 63,755 Other additions to intangible assets 2,271 2,271 Capital expenditure 298,965 115,987 17,809 432,761 Other items capitalised 8,055 92 8,147 Average number of employees 6,054 1,561 4,174 11,789 d See note 6. e Including central administration expenses of IRC Limited of US$25.9 million out of which US$9.4 million is an exceptional item, being costs incurred in relation to the listing of IRC Limited on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
f In making the assessment for impairment, goodwill is allocated to the group of cash generating units likely to bene t from acquisition-related synergies note 13.
145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 4.
Segment information continued Entity wide disclosures a Revenue by geographical location 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Russia and CIS 1,151,929 578,152 China 110,388 12,608 Other 173 21,256 1,262,490 612,016 a Based on the location to which the product is shipped or in which the services are provided.
Information about major customers During the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group generated revenues from the sales of gold to a number of financial institutions, namely, to Russian banks for Russia domestic sales of gold and to foreign banks for sales of gold outside of Russia.
Included in gold sales revenue for the year ended 31 December 2011 are revenues of US$990 million which arose from sales of gold to three banks that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenue, namely US$521 million to Sberbank of Russia, US$300 million to VTB and US$169 million to the Asian-Paci c Bank 2010: US$511 million revenues from sales of gold to two banks that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenue, namely US$287 million to Sberbank of Russia, and US$224 million to Bank of Moscow.
The proportion of Group revenue of each bank may vary from year to year depending on commercial terms agreed with each bank.
Management consider there is no major customer concentration risk due to high liquidity inherent to gold as a commodity.
Revenue 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Sales of goods 1,236,446 586,628 Rendering of services 23,469 22,866 Rental income 2,575 2,522 1,262,490 612,016 Investment income 3,119 6,525 1,265,609 618,541 146 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 6.
Operating expenses and income 2011 2010 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Net operating expenses excluding items shown separately 718,483 718,483 413,378 413,378 Impairment charges 42,078 42,078 9,897 34,944 44,841 Impairment of non-trading loans 14,241 14,241 Central administration expenses 92,941 3,198 89,743 64,116 9,355 73,471 Foreign exchange losses 9,833 9,833 3,165 3,165 Gain on re-measuring existing interest in Omchak on acquisition 28,882 28,882 Gain on disposal of Groups interest in joint ventures and a available-for-sale investment 12,036 12,036 Net gain on acquisition of Jiatai b Titanium 1,439 1,439 863,335 2,432 860,903 490,556 15,417 505,973 a Being the difference between the US$10 million aggregate proceeds and US$0.9 million cost of investment on Solovyevskiy Priisk as well as US$2.9 million accumulated losses of Odolgo JV note 16. b See note 16.
Net operating expenses excluding items shown separately 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Staff costs 170,499 108,483 Fuel 73,343 34,875 Materials 132,820 84,526 Depreciation 132,202 73,452 Electricity 34,727 20,723 Royalties 67,599 33,886 Smelting and transportation costs 5,944 3,518 Shipping costs 33,704 5,096 Professional fees 12,583 3,586 Other external services 97,382 45,776 Movement in deferred stripping, work in progress and bullion in process attributable to gold production 91,713 46,827 Insurance 6,447 4,329 Operating lease rentals 1,670 2,056 Provision for impairment of trade and other receivables 1,862 372 Bank charges 2,526 1,436 Of ce costs 2,648 1,992 Taxes other than income 12,375 8,056 Goods for resale 19,665 10,624 Business travel expenses 3,259 1,879 Other operating expenses 13,637 22,661 Other income 14,696 7,121 718,483 413,378 147 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 6.
Operating expenses and income continued Impairment charges Following the decision to abandon exploration of the Diagonalnoe area of the Malomir deposits, associated exploration and evaluation costs of US$5.2 million previously capitalised within mine development costs of Malomir were written off.
Following the decision to abandon exploration of certain licence areas, the following associated exploration and evaluation costs previously capitalised within intangible assets were written off: US$13.2 million exploration and evaluation costs associated with projects in Amur region 2010: US$9.9 million : US$15.2 million exploration and evaluation costs associated with projects in Yamal region 2010: nil : US$8.4 million exploration and evaluation costs associated with projects in other regions 2010: nil.
In 2010, the Group was advised that its joint venture partner Aluminium Corporation of China Limited Chinalco has decided to withdraw from some of its non-core ventures and consequently no longer wishes to proceed with the Jiatai Titanium project.
As of 31 December 2010, the Group had invested approximately US$20.8 million in the joint venture, and a further US$15.3 million on the titanium sponge processing technology, which was expected to be recharged to the joint venture.
As a consequence the building of the plant was deferred and there was uncertainty as to the eventual outcome of the joint venture activities and the recoverability of the amounts invested.
As a result, in 2010 the directors concluded that the most appropriate course of action was to provide for the impairment against the invested amounts of US$34.9 million.
This impairment was allocated to intangible assets US$0.7 million, property, plant and equipment US$14.6 million and interests in joint ventures US$19.6 million.
The impairment took into account the recoverable value of the Groups share of the joint venture of US$3.5 million which re ected the Groups 65% share of the cash within the joint venture, net of its liabilities.
On 11 April 2011, the Group acquired the remaining 35% equity stake from the joint venture partner.
See note 16 for further details.
b Costs incurred in relation to the listing of IRC Limited on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
148 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 7.
Auditors remuneration The Group, including its overseas subsidiaries, obtained the following services from the Companys auditor and its associates: 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Audit fees and related fees Fees payable to the Company's auditor for the annual audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 356 395 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: For the audit of the Company's subsidiaries as part of the audit of the consolidated financial statements 311 322 a For the audit of subsidiary statutory accounts pursuant to legislation 580 608 b Other services pursuant to legislation interim review 331 160 1,578 1,485 Non-audit fees Corporate finance services: c Fees for reporting accountants services 2,729 Other corporate finance services 93 Tax services 146 197 Other services 68 115 214 3,134 a Including the statutory audit of subsidiaries in the UK and Cyprus as well as US$478 thousand 2010: US$459 thousand payable for the audit of the consolidated financial statements of IRC Limited.
b Including US$125 thousand 2010: nil payable for the interim review of the consolidated financial statements of IRC Limited.
c Fees payable in connection with the listing of the shares of IRC Limited on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited a signi cant component of which relates to the audit of historical financial information.
Staff costs 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 176,007 123,689 Social security costs 40,387 20,768 Pension costs 637 427 Share-based compensation 11,010 2,585 228,041 147,469 Average number of employees 13,385 11,789 149 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 9.
Financial income and expenses 2011 2010 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Investment income Interest income 3,119 3,119 6,525 6,525 3,119 3,119 6,525 6,525 Interest expense Interest on bank and other loans 24,626 24,626 14,551 14,551 Interest on convertible bonds 27,753 27,753 23,269 23,269 52,379 52,379 37,820 37,820 Interest capitalised 13,992 13,992 7,253 7,253 Unwinding of discount on environmental obligation 1,254 1,254 1,605 1,605 39,641 39,641 32,172 32,172 Other finance losses gains Finance costs incurred in relation to listing of IRC Limited on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong a Limited 10,314 10,314 Fair value losses gains on derivative financial instruments 2,381 2,381 2,285 2,285 2,381 2,381 2,285 10,314 8,029 a Being the agreed exit cost paid to facilitate the unwinding of the pre-IPO investment into IRC Limited in order to meet the requirements of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited placed on IRC Limited in connection with the listing.
150 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 10.
Taxation 2011 2010 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional a a items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current tax UK current tax Russian current tax 73,888 73,888 23,429 23,429 73,888 73,888 23,429 23,429 Deferred tax Reversal and origination of timing differences 46,947 46,947 22,799 22,799 Total tax charge 120,835 120,835 46,228 46,228 a Exceptional items were tax neutral.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the pro t per the income statement as follows: 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Pro t before tax 361,324 69,199 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 26.5% 2010: 28% 95,751 19,376 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 34,186 6,623 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 224 887 Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes 18,714 26,934 Tax effect of tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 38,452 18,622 Income not subject to tax 5,130 8,090 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 4,184 4,415 Foreign exchange movements in respect of deductible temporary differences 17,422 1,099 Other adjustments 6,228 1,562 Tax expense for the period 120,835 46,228 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 11.
Earnings per share 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Pro t for the period attributable to equity holders of Petropavlovsk PLC 230,885 19,777 Before exceptional items 228,453 45,508 Exceptional items 2,432 25,731 a Interest expense on convertible bonds, net of tax 20,398 Pro t used to determine diluted earnings per share 251,283 19,777 Before exceptional items 248,851 45,508 Exceptional items 2,432 25,731 No of shares No of shares Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 186,478,361 183,815,830 Adjustments for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: a - assumed conversion of convertible bonds 18,478,083 - share options in issue 9,618 23,966 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 204,966,062 183,839,796 US$ US$ Basic earnings per share 1.24 0.11 Before exceptional items 1.23 0.25 Exceptional items 0.01 0.14 Diluted earnings per share 1.23 0.11 Before exceptional items 1.22 0.25 Exceptional items 0.01 0.14 a Convertible bonds due 2015 which could potentially dilute basic earnings per share were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive.
As at 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group had a potentially dilutive option issued to IFC to subscribe for 1,067,273 Ordinary Shares note 26 which was anti-dilutive 2010: anti-dilutive and therefore was not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group had 8,312,463 potentially dilutive warrants in issue until these were exercised during the period or otherwise lapsed unexercised on 9 June 2010 which were anti-dilutive and therefore were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
152 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 12.
Dividends a 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 0.05 per share paid on 11 November 2011 15,164 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 0.07 per share paid on 28 July 2011 21,692 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 0.03 per share paid on 29 October 2010 8,771 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 0.07 per share paid on 30 March 2010 19,003 36,856 27,774 a Information on dividends proposed subsequent to 31 December 2011 is set out in note 36.
Goodwill 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Cost At 1 January 22,161 22,161 At 31 December 22,161 22,161 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 486 486 At 31 December 486 486 Carrying amount at 31 December 21,675 21,675 Goodwill primarily relates to the Groups investment in Irgiredmet and BMRP.
Goodwill recognised on acquisition of Irgiredmet and BMRP in the amounts of US$16 million and US$5 million, correspondingly, has been allocated to the group of cash generating units likely to bene t from acquisition-related synergies, which are those within the precious metals segment.
The recoverable amount of cash generating units is determined based on value-in-use calculations as set out in note 3.3.
153 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 14.
Intangible assets Included in intangible assets are capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure and mineral rights acquired as set out below.
Verkhne Yamal Flanks of Kostengina c Visokoe Aliinskoye Tokur deposits Pokrovskiy skoye Other Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2011 36,826 67,148 62,955 77,834 18,808 29,136 54,155 346,862 Additions 5,379 3,957 381 7,056 16,334 4,424 33,167 70,698 note 6 Impairment 15,195 2,579 18,945 36,719 Transfer to mine development 18,260 613 18,873 b Transfer to mining assets 28,587 1,032 29,619 Reallocation and other transfers 1,618 220 226 776 2,388 At 31 December 2011 42,205 72,723 63,556 51,435 3,750 33,560 67,508 334,737 a Following approval of a new plan to develop gravel operations at the Novogodnee Monto area of the Yamal deposits by the Board Committee in June 2011 and commencement of development, associated amounts capitalised have been transferred to mine development costs within property, plant and equipment.
Management will continue assessment of the development strategy for expansion of the gravel operations and gold mining operations as the next stage of development of the Yamal deposits.
Until such time as the updated development strategy for the gold mining operations is in place and approved by the Board, associated amounts capitalised remain in intangible assets.
b Following completion of exploration and commencement of the mining activity at Alkagan-Adamovskaya, Sergeevskaya and Zheltunakskaya licence areas, the associated amounts capitalised have been transferred to mining assets within property, plant and equipment.
c Represent amounts capitalised in respect of a number of projects in the Amur and other regions.
e Following the decision to abandon exploration of the Gar-2, Shaman and Sungjar licence areas, associated exploration and evaluation costs of US$8.9 million previously capitalised within intangible assets were written off.
154 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 15.
b Being costs primarily associated with continuous development of Malomir and Pioneer projects.
c Following commencement of commercial production at Albyn, associated mine development costs were transferred to the mining assets.
d Being costs associated with development of gravel operations at the Novogodnee Monto area of the Yamal deposits.
e Property, plant and equipment with a net book value of US$211.7 million 31 December 2010: US$75.2 million have been pledged to secure borrowings of the Group.
155 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 16.
Interests in joint ventures The Group has various interests in jointly controlled entities as set out in note 38.
These interests are accounted for in accordance with accounting policies set out in note 2.8.
2011 2010 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 8,446 31,886 a Acquisition of a subsidiary 3,215 8,663 c Contribution to share capital 4,731 b Disposals 2,975 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 1,826 Transfers from non-current trade and other receivables 355 note 6 Impairment 19,655 Share of joint ventures loss 1,360 3,168 Unrealised loss 249 Foreign exchange differences 240 885 At 31 December 7,086 8,446 a In accordance with the terms of the joint venture agreement between the Group and Aluminium Corporation of China Limited Chinalco signed and approved by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce on 12 August 2008 for establishment of a jointly controlled Chinese titanium sponge processing joint venture project, Heilongjiang Jiatai Titanium Co. Limited Jiatai Titanium was established in the PRC with 65% interest held by the Group and the remaining 35% held by a joint venture partner.
Unanimous consent is required from both parties for all strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the Jiatai Titanium.
On 11 April 2011, the Group acquired the remaining 35% equity stake from the joint venture partner for a cash consideration of US$11.5 million pursuant to which Jiatai Titanium became a subsidiary of the Group.
There was an excess of the assets acquired compared with the consideration paid of US$1.4m which has been recognised as an exceptional gain note 6. b Being net liabilities of Odolgo JV at the date of disposal note 6. c On 19 February 2009, the Group signed an agreement with Heilongjiang Jianlong Steel Company Limited and Kuranakii Investment Co. Limited to establish a Chinese Vanadium Production Joint Venture project the Vanadium Joint Venture, Heilongjiang Jianlong Vanadium Industries Co. Limited, which was incorporated in the PRC.
The Group holds 46% of the joint venture and the remaining 49% and 5% are held by Heilongjiang Jianlong Steel Company Limited and Kuranakii Investment Co. Limited respectively, with the parties exercising joint control as the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the Vanadium Joint Venture require the unanimous consent from the three parties.
The summary of the financial information of the Groups jointly controlled entities is set out below.
2011 2010 US$000 US$000 The Groups share of joint ventures net assets Non-current assets 13,530 8,420 Current assets 6,018 12,707 Current liabilities 5,296 3,281 Non-current liabilities 7,166 9,400 7,086 8,446 The Groups share of joint ventures loss pro t for the period Sales revenue 5,725 Net operating expenses 1,430 9,811 Operating loss 1,430 4,086 Financial income 27 1,087 Financial expenses 68 700 Taxation 111 1 Non-controlling interests 532 1,360 3,168 156 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 17.
Available-for-sale investments 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Listed securities Rusoro Mining Limited 543 2,484 a Unlisted securities Solovyevskiy Priisk 939 Other 18 20 561 3,443 a The value of these investments are recorded at cost as, in the opinion of the Directors, fair values cannot be reliably measured as there are no active markets with quoted market prices.
Other non-current assets 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 a Deferred debt transaction costs 29,430 28,298 b Restricted bank deposit 6,000 Other assets 2,441 898 37,871 29,196 a Paid in connection with ICBC facility note 23. b See note 23.
Inventories 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Current Construction materials 16,796 14,950 Stores and spares 149,565 85,332 Work in progress 107,268 44,399 Deferred stripping costs 47,114 51,052 Bullion in process 9,917 2,218 330,660 197,951 Non-current a Work in progress 16,828 8,882 b Deferred stripping costs 26,359 2,729 43,187 11,611 a Ore stockpiles that are not planned to be processed within twelve months after the reporting period.
b Production stripping related to the ore extraction which is to be undertaken within more than twelve months after the reporting period.
157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 20.
Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Current VAT recoverable 109,250 76,468 Advances to suppliers 63,856 32,677 a Rusoro exchangeable loan 8,833 b Trade receivables 11,442 8,761 c Advances paid on resale and commission contracts 1,248 Other loans receivable 5 1,093 Interest accrued 272 210 d Other debtors 22,904 15,471 208,977 143,513 a Net of provision for impairment of US$10.2 million 2010: nil.
On 10 June 2008, the Group participated in an US$80 million senior secured loan to Venezuela Holdings BVI Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rusoro Mining Limited Rusoro, exchangeable into Rusoro common shares at a price of C$1.25 and repayable on 10 June 2010 the Rusoro Exchangeable Loan.
The Group subscribed for US$20 million of the Rusoro Exchangeable Loan and the remainder of the funds was provided by other parties the Lenders.
On 10 June 2010, the parties entered into the Amendment and Restatement Agreement relating to the Rusoro Exchangeable Loan agreement whereby the Repayment Date in relation to US$30 million principal was extended until 10 June 2011.
Exchange option has been extended together with the terms of the loan and the exchange price was adjusted to C$0.40.
The loan carries an interest rate of 10% per-annum payable semi-annually in arrears.
The loan component is measured at amortised cost, whilst the exchange option is recorded as a derivative financial asset and is measured at fair value.
b Net of provision for impairment of US$1.1 million 2010: US$2.2 million.
Trade receivables are due for settlement between one and six months.
Included in trade receivables are individual balances totalling US$0.01 million 2010: US$0.6 million which are past due but not impaired as the amounts are still considered recoverable.
c Amounts included in advances paid on resale and commission contracts relate to services performed by the Groups subsidiary, Irgiredmet, in its activity to procure materials such as reagents, consumables and equipment for third parties.
d Net of provision for impairment of US$5.6 million 2010: nil.
There is no signi cant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before granting credit.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties.
The Groups exposure and credit ratings of its counterparties are monitored by the Board of Directors.
The maximum credit risk of such financial assets is represented by the carrying value of the asset.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank and in hand 105,081 62,808 Short-term bank deposits 108,475 258,178 213,556 320,986 158 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 22.
Trade and other payables 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 37,684 32,281 Advances from customers 7,724 3,513 a Advances received on resale and commission contracts 6,370 3,431 Outstanding purchase consideration for 32.5% and 7.5% in Omchak 12,000 Accruals and other payables 83,126 91,513 134,904 142,738 a Amounts included in advances paid on resale and commission contracts at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 relate to services performed by the Groups subsidiary, Irgiredmet, in its activity to procure materials such as reagents, consumables and equipment for third parties.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
Borrowings 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Borrowings at amortised cost a Convertible bonds 338,812 326,258 b Bank loans 659,630 161,607 c ICBC facility 6,343 b Other loans 2,053 4,253 1,006,838 492,118 Amount due for settlement within 12 months 216,430 93,104 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 790,408 399,014 1,006,838 492,118 a In February 2010, the Group issued US$380 million of convertible bonds due on 18 February 2015 the Bonds.
The Bonds were issued at par by the Companys wholly owned-subsidiary Petropavlovsk 2010 Limited and are guaranteed by the Company.
The Bonds carry a coupon of 4.00% payable semi-annually in arrears and are convertible into redeemable preference shares of Petropavlovsk 2010 Limited which are guaranteed by and will be exchangeable immediately upon issuance for Ordinary Shares in the Company.
The conversion price has been set at 12.9345 per share, subject to adjustment for certain events and adjusted to 12.66 with effect from 29 June 2011 for each US$100,000 principal amount of a Bond, and the conversion exchange rate has been xed at US$1.6244 per 1.
The Bonds were admitted to listing on the Of cial List of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the Professional Securities Market of the London Stock Exchange on 19 February 2010.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bonds were split between the liability component and the equity component of US$59 million representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group.
The liability component of the Bonds is measured at amortised cost.
The interest charged was calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 8.65% to the liability component.
As at 31 December 2011, the fair value of the Bonds, calculated by applying the effective interest rate of 10.5% to the liability component of the Bonds, amounted to US$322.7 million 2010: the carrying value of the Bonds approximated their fair value.
b Bank and other loans outstanding as at 31 December 2011 include liabilities of US$168.3 million 2010: US$102.1 million which are secured against certain items of property, plant and equipment of the Group note 15.
The weighted average interest rate paid during the year ended 31 December 2011 was 6% 2010: 7%.
The carrying value of the bank loans approximated their fair value at each period end.
As at 31 December 2011, bank loans with an aggregate carrying value of US$ 296.2 million 2010: nil contain financial covenants requiring the maintenance of the consolidated interest cover ratio of not less than 4:1 and consolidated leverage ratio of no greater than 4:1.
As at 31 December 2011, the amounts undrawn under the bank loans comprised US$129.6 million 2010: US$15.2 million.
c On 6 December 2010, LLC Kimkano-Sutarsky Mining and Bene ciation Plant K&S, a subsidiary of the Group, entered into the HK$3.11 billion equivalent to US$400 million Engineering Procurement and Construction Contract with China National Electric Engineering Corporation for the construction of the Groups mining operations at K&S.
On 13 December 2010, K&S entered into a project finance facility agreement with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited ICBC the ICBC Facility Agreement pursuant to which ICBC will lend US$340 million to K&S to be used to fund the construction of the Groups mining operations at K&S in time for the start of major construction works in early 2011.
Interest under the facility will be charged at 2.80% above London Interbank Offering rate LIBOR per annum.
The facility is guaranteed by the Company and is repayable over a period of 11 years from 2014 and is fully repayable by 2022.
On 14 December 2011, the Group made the first drawdown amounting to US$6.9 million and the loan is carried at amortised cost with effective interest rate at 5.63% per annum.
As at 31 December 2011, US$6 million was deposited with ICBC under a security deposit agreement related to the ICBC Facility Agreement and is presented as restricted deposit under non-current assets.
ICBC Facility Agreement contains financial covenants requiring the maintenance of the consolidated interest cover ratio of not less than 3.5:1 and consolidated leverage ratio of no greater than 4:1.
As at 31 December 2011, the amounts undrawn under the ICBC Facility Agreement comprised US$333 million 2010: US$340 million.
159 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 24.
Deferred taxation 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 126,768 88,260 Deferred tax charged to income statement 46,947 22,799 Deferred tax recognised as part of business combinations 15,829 Deferred tax charged credited to equity 153 43 Exchange differences 399 77 At 31 December 173,469 126,768 Deferred tax assets 2,562 6,774 Deferred tax liabilities 176,031 133,542 Net deferred tax liability 173,469 126,768 Charged credited to Charged At At the income credited Exchange 31 December 1 January 2011 statement directly to equity differences 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 86,944 45,646 90 132,500 Inventory 14,164 15,559 24 29,747 Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure 2,363 5,528 3,165 Derivative financial instruments 321 321 Fair value adjustments 23,233 1,185 273 21,775 Tax losses 4,137 1,614 2,523 Other temporary differences 3,880 8,838 153 60 4,865 126,768 46,947 153 399 173,469 Charged credited At to the income Charged credited Acquisition of Exchange At 1 January 2010 statement directly to equity subsidiary differences 31 December 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 82,182 4,440 335 13 86,944 Inventory 8,117 5,449 596 2 14,164 Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure 7,710 8,658 1,415 2,363 Derivative financial instruments 361 40 321 Fair value adjustments 9,999 592 13,882 56 23,233 Tax losses 7,319 3,182 4,137 Other temporary differences 2,630 1,702 43 399 10 3,880 88,260 22,799 43 15,829 77 126,768 The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets in respect of tax losses comprising US$384.8 million 2010: US$210.4 million that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
Tax losses of US$134.5 million can be carried forward inde nitely.
Tax losses of US$248.8 million substantially expire between 2016 and 2021.
The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of US$35.4 million 2010: US$41.8 million in respect of temporary differences arising on certain capitalised development costs.
The Group has not recorded a deferred tax liability in respect of withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings associated with investments in its subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of those temporary differences and does not intend to reverse them in the foreseeable future.
Unremitted earnings comprised in aggregate US$827.3 million 2010: US$512.8 million.
160 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 25.
Provision for close down and restoration costs 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 11,085 8,655 Amounts capitalised 10,042 770 Unwinding of discount 1,254 1,605 Change in estimates 13,224 124 Foreign exchange differences 647 69 At 31 December 34,958 11,085 The Group recognised provisions in relation to close down and restoration costs for the following mining sites: 2011 2010 Expected timing Expected timing Provision of the cash Provision of the cash recognised out ows from recognised out ows from a a US$ 000 31 December US$ 000 31 December at least at least Pokrovskiy 4,990 4 years 3,507 5 years at least at least Pioneer 4,979 10 years 3,200 9 years at least at least Malomir 10,843 11 years 772 3 years at least Albyn 10,053 6 years at least at least Kuranakh 4,093 10 years 3,606 11 years a Based on the Groups mining plan.
Provision recognised represents the present value of estimated expenditure that will be incurred arrived at using the long-term risk-free pre-tax cost of borrowing.
Share capital 2011 2010 No of shares US$000 No of shares US$000 Allotted, called up and fully paid At 1 January 187,860,093 2,891 182,079,767 2,805 Issued during the period 5,780,326 86 At 31 December 187,860,093 2,891 187,860,093 2,891 The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry no right to xed income.
The Company has an option issued to the IFC on 22 April 2009 on acquisition of Aricom plc to subscribe for 1,067,273 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 11.84 per share, subject to adjustments.
The option expires on 25 May 2015.
161 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 27.
Own shares 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 10,675 14,003 Vesting of Replacement LTIP 3,328 Vesting of awards within Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP 231 At 31 December 10,444 10,675 Own shares represent 1,351,806 Ordinary Shares held by the EBT 2010: 1,381,732 to provide bene ts to employees under the Long-Term Incentive Plan note 30.
Notes to the cash ow statement Reconciliation of pro t before tax to operating cash ow 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Pro t before tax 361,324 69,199 Adjustments for: Share of results in joint ventures 1,360 3,168 Investment income 3,119 6,525 Interest expense 39,641 32,172 Other finance losses 2,381 8,029 Share-based payments 11,010 2,585 Depreciation 132,202 73,452 Gain on re-measurement of equity interest in Omchak on acquisition 28,882 Impairment charges 42,078 44,841 Impairment of non-trading loans 14,241 Provision for impairment of trade and other receivables 1,862 Loss on disposals of property, plant and equipment 2,118 366 Pro t on disposal of the Groups interests in joint ventures and available-for-sale investments 12,036 Net gain on acquisition of Jiatai Titanium 1,439 Exchange gains losses in respect of investment activity 940 171 Exchange losses in respect of cash and cash equivalents 58 2,450 Other non-cash items 3,450 285 Changes in working capital: Increase in trade and other receivables 104,093 64,442 Increase in inventories 158,137 75,761 Increase in trade and other payables 31,226 19,386 Net cash generated from operations 356,287 80,494 Non-cash transactions There have been no signi cant non-cash transactions during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010.
162 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 29.
Related parties Related parties the Group entered into transactions with during the reporting period OJSC Asian-Paci c Bank Asian-Paci c Bank, V. H. M. Y.
Holdings Limited, OJSC M2M Private Bank M2M Private Bank and OJSC Kamchatprombank Kamchatprombank are considered related parties as Mr Peter Hambro and Dr Pavel Maslovskiy have an interest in these companies.
The Petropavlovsk Foundation for Social Investment the Petropavlovsk Foundation is considered to be a related party due to the participation of the key management of the Group in the governing board of the Petropavlovsk Foundation and presence in its board of guardians.
OJSC Apatit Apatit, a subsidiary of OJSC PhosAgro PhosAgro, is considered to be a related party due to PhosAgros minority interest and signi cant in uence in the Groups subsidiary Giproruda.
OJSC Krasnoyarskaya GGK Krasnoyarskaya GGK is considered to be a related party due to this entitys minority interest and signi cant in uence in the Groups subsidiary Verkhnetisskaya GRK.
Vanadium Joint Venture is a joint venture of the Group and hence is a related party.
Odolgo Joint Venture was a joint venture of the Group and hence was considered to be a related party until it was disposed of in May 2011.
Titanium Joint Venture was a joint venture of the Group and hence was considered to be a related party until it was acquired and became a subsidiary to the Group in April 2011 note 16.
Omchak Joint Venture was a joint venture of the Group and hence was considered to be a related party until it was acquired and became a subsidiary to the Group in July 2010.
Uralmining is an associate of the Group and hence is a related party.
Transactions with related parties the Group entered into during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 are set out below.
Trading Transactions Related party transactions the Group entered into that relate to the day-to-day operation of the business are set out below.
Sales to related parties Purchases from related parties 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Asian-Paci c Bank Sales of gold and silver 168,578 25,617 Other 281 723 1,064 546 168,859 26,340 1,064 546 Trading transactions with other related parties Engineering services provided to Apatit 1,732 3,974 Exploration services provided by Krasnoyarskaya GGK 13,825 7,216 Other transactions with Krasnoyarskaya GGK 1,132 200 Rent, insurance and other transactions with other entities in which Mr Peter Hambro and or Dr Pavel Maslovskiy have a controlling interest or exercise a signi cant in uence 229 1,214 6,093 5,866 Entities controlled by key management 113 Joint ventures and associates 562 455 26 Other 465 4,120 5,843 20,031 13,108 During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group made US$3.4 million charitable donations to the Petropavlovsk Foundation 2010 US$2.5 million.
163 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 29.
Related parties continued The outstanding balances with related parties at 31 December 2011 and 2010 are set out below.
Amounts owed by related parties at Amounts owed to related parties at 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Krasnoyarskaya GGK 87 263 1,019 1,087 Other entities in which Mr Peter Hambro and or Dr Pavel Maslovskiy have a controlling interest or exercise a signi cant in uence 60 330 1,713 1,840 Apatit 1,480 925 Joint ventures and associates 75 113 Asian-Paci c Bank 7 1,634 1,593 2,732 3,040 Banking arrangements The Group has current and deposit bank accounts with Asian-Paci c Bank.
The bank balances at 31 December 2011 and 2010 are set out below: 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Asian-Paci c Bank 19,972 35,408 Financing transactions During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group received a US$15.1 million unsecured loan from Asian-Paci c Bank.
The loan bears 10% interest and is repayable in October 2012.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group received an interest-free unsecured loan from Krasnoyarskaya GGK totalling US$2.0 million.
The loan principal was outstanding as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
The Group also invested US$0.7 million in the associate through equity 2010: the Group invested US$1 million in the associate through loans advanced.
Key management compensation Key management personnel are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly, including any directors whether executive or otherwise of that entity.
2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 14,347 11,440 Pension costs 325 164 Share-based compensation 2,869 1,279 17,541 12,883 164 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 30.
Share-based payments The Group operates various equity-settled share awards schemes.
The details of share awards outstanding are set out below.
Petropavlovsk PLC Share option scheme Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP awards Granted on 25 June 2009 Granted on 12 May 2011 Weighted Weighted Weighted Number of average exercise Number of average exercise Number of average exercise Ordinary price Ordinary price Ordinary price Shares Shares Shares At 1 January 2011 50,000 6.72 462,961 Granted during the year 1,524,347 Forfeited during the year 129,313 Exercised and vested during the year 29,926 Expired during the year At 31 December 2011 50,000 6.72 462,961 1,365,108 Employee share option scheme As part of business combination with Aricom plc, the outstanding options granted under the Share Option Scheme of Aricom plc to its Directors in prior years were exchanged for options over Ordinary Shares of Petropavlovsk PLC, exercisable during the period since 19 July 2009 until 19 July 2012.
No further options will be granted under the Share Option Scheme by the Group.
The fair value of share awards under the Employee share option scheme are determined using the Black Scholes model at the date of grant using the assumptions detailed in the table below.
Employee share option scheme Date of grant 22 April 2009 Share price at the date of grant, 5.20 Exercise price, 6.72 Expected volatility, % 102.14 Expected life in years 0.24 Risk-free rate, % 0.86 Expected dividends, Fair value per award, 0.57 Petropavlovsk PLC Long-Term Incentive Plan the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP The Group established a new Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP which was approved by the shareholders of the Company on 25 June 2009 and includes the following awards: Share Option Award, being a right to acquire a speci ed number of Ordinary Shares in the Company at a speci ed exercise price: Performance Share Award, being a right to acquire a speci ed amount of Ordinary Shares in the Company at nil cost: and Deferred Bonus Award.
Initial performance share awards under the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP were granted on 25 June 2009 with 482,961 shares allocated to certain Executive Directors and members of senior management of the Group, out of which 296,297 shares are held by the EBT and the Company assumed the obligation to issue the remaining shares upon vesting of the LTIP.
165 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 30.
Share-based payments continued Performance Share Awards granted on 25 June 2009 vest or become exercisable subject to the following provisions: 50% of the shares subject to the award may be acquired based on a condition relating to total shareholder return the TSR Condition : and 50% of the shares subject to the award may be acquired based on speci c conditions relating to the Groups business development and strategic plans the Operating Conditions.
The TSR Condition relates to growth in TSR over a three year period relative to the TSR growth of companies in a peer group of listed international mining companies selected upon establishment of the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP the Comparator Group over the same period.
The TSR Condition provides for the award to vest or become exercisable as follows: % of the award vesting Within top decile 50% At median 25% Below median The detailed requirements to the Operating Conditions are determined by the Remuneration Committee and will be measured over a three year period from the date of grant.
The fair value of performance share awards was determined using the Black-Scholes model at the date of grant in relation to the proportion of the awards vesting based on the operating performance conditions and using the Monte Carlo model in relation to the proportion of the awards vesting based on the TSR condition.
The relevant assumptions are set out in the table below.
Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP performance share awards Vesting based on operating performance Vesting based on conditions TSR Condition Date of grant 25 June 2009 25 June 2009 Number of performance share awards granted 241,480 241,481 Share price at the date of grant, 6.0 6.0 Exercise price, Expected volatility, % 72.98 72.98 Expected life in years 33 Risk-free rate, % 2.13 2.13 Expected dividends yield, % Expected annual forfeitures Fair value per award, 4.463 6.000 On 12 May 2011, the Group has granted further performance share awards under the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP with 1,524,347 shares allocated to certain Executive Directors, members of senior management and certain other employees of the Group, out of which 1,085,435 shares are held by the EBT and the Company assumed the obligation to issue the remaining shares upon vesting of the LTIP.
166 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Performance share awards vest or become exercisable subject to the following provisions: 70% of the shares subject to the award may be acquired at nil cost based on a condition relating to the total shareholder return the TSR of the Company compared with the TSR of a selected comparator group the First TSR Condition : and 30% of the shares subject to the award may be acquired at nil cost based on a condition relating to growth in TSR of the Company compared to the FTSE 350 mining index the Second TSR Condition.
The First TSR Condition relates to growth in TSR over a three year period relative to the TSR growth of companies in a selected peer group of listed international mining companies the Comparator Group over the same period.
The First TSR Condition provides for the award to vest or become exercisable as follows: % of the award vesting Within top decile 70% At median 35% Below median The Second TSR Condition relates to growth in TSR over a three year period relative to the growth in TSR of companies in FTSE 350 mining index the Index Comparator Group over the same period.
The Second TSR Condition provides for the award to vest or become exercisable as follows: % of the award vesting At median 13.5% p. a.
30% At median 15% Below median The fair value of share awards was determined using the Monte Carlo model.
Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP performance share awards Vesting based Vesting based on on the First TSR the Second TSR Condition Condition Date of grant 12 May 2011 12 May 2011 Number of performance share awards granted 1,067,043 457,304 Share price at the date of grant, 8.15 8.15 Exercise price, Expected volatility, % 73.32 73.32 Expected life in years 33 Risk-free rate, % 1.53 1.53 Expected dividends yield, % Expected annual forfeitures Fair value per award, 6.16 5.77 167 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 30.
Share-based payments continued IRC Limited Under the LTIP of IRC Limited, which was established on 11 August 2010, selected employees and Directors of the IRC Group the Selected Grantees are to be awarded shares of IRC Limited which have been purchased by the EBT operated in conjunction with the IRC LTIP.
Upon the IRC managements recommendation, the number of shares awarded to the Selected Grantees shall be determined, together with the vesting dates for various tranches, by the Board of IRC Limited.
Any LTIP awarded to a Selected Grantee who is a Director of the Company shall be subject to the Boards approval following a recommendation from the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The scheme has a three-year vesting period and is subject to the following vesting conditions: 25% of the award vesting is relating to the achievement of certain production targets: 25% of the award vesting is relating to pro tability: 25% of the award vesting is relating to the growth and development of the IRC Group: and 25% of the award vesting is relating to the meeting of certain health, safety and environmental requirements.
On 3 November 2010, 91.1 million shares of IRC Limited were awarded to Selected Grantees under the IRC LTIP.
The fair value of the services rendered as consideration of the awarded shares was measured by reference to the fair value of the awarded shares at the award dates of US$19.2 million determined based on the closing share price of IRC Limited as of 3 November 2010 of HK$1.64 per share which is recognised in the consolidated income statement over the vesting period.
On 1 August 2011, a further 2,332,000 shares of IRC Limited were awarded to Selected Grantees under the IRC LTIP.
The fair value of the services rendered as consideration of the awarded shares was measured by reference to the fair value of the awarded shares at the award dates of approximately US$536,000 determined based on the closing share price of the Company as of 1 August 2011 of HK$1.79 per share which is recognised in the consolidated income statement over the vesting period.
Financial instruments and financial risk management Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for other stakeholders and to optimise the weighted average cost of capital and tax ef ciency subject to maintaining suf cient financial exibility to undertake its investment plans.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt as detailed in note 31 and equity comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
As at 31 December 2011, the capital comprised US$2.7 billion 2010: US$1.9 billion.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group adopts a modular approach in developing its projects in order to minimise upfront capital expenditure and related funding requirements.
The Group manages in detail its funding requirements on a 12 month rolling basis and maintains a five year forecast in order to identify medium-term funding needs.
Following the listing of IRC Limited on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, its capital is managed separately by the Independent Board of IRC Limited.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
168 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Signi cant accounting policies Details of signi cant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Categories of financial instruments 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 213,556 320,986 Fair value through pro t or loss derivative financial instruments 2,381 Loans and receivables 39,111 35,023 Available-for-sale investments 561 3,443 Financial liabilities At amortised cost trade and other payables 85,218 135,669 At amortised cost borrowings 1,006,838 492,118 Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, risk of change in the commodity prices, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central finance department and all key risk management decisions are approved by the Board of Directors.
The Group identi es and evaluates financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as guidance covering speci c areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, gold price risk, credit risk and investment of excess liquidity.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises primarily from borrowings.
The Group is exposed to cash ow interest rate risk through borrowing at oating interest rates and to fair value interest rate risk through borrowing at xed interest rates.
At present, the Group does not undertake any interest rate hedging activities.
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on exposure to interest rates for the average balance of oating interest-bearing borrowings.
If interest rates had been 1% higher lower and all other variables held constant, the Groups pro t for the year ended 31 December 2011 would decrease increase by US$0.87 million 2010: decrease increase by US$0.65 million.
This is attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from uctuations in currencies the Group transacts, primarily US Dollars, GB Pounds Sterling and Russian Roubles.
Exchange rate risks are mitigated to the extent considered necessary by the Board of Directors, through holding the relevant currencies.
At present, the Group does not undertake any foreign currency transaction hedging.
169 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 32.
Financial instruments and financial risk management continued The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at period end are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Russian Roubles 260,573 189,451 110,150 172,879 a US Dollars 12,778 3,763 1,822 9 GB Pounds Sterling 2,269 13,031 14,179 20,154 Other currencies 4,014 2,485 135 90 a US Dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities in Group companies with Rouble functional currency.
The following table illustrates the Groups pro t sensitivity to the uctuation of the major currencies in which it transacts.
A 25% movement has been applied to each currency in the table below for the year ended 31 December 2011, representing managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange currency rates 2010: a 25% movement was applied to each currency in the table.
2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Russian Roubles currency impact 37,606 4,143 GB Pounds Sterling currency impact 2,978 1,781 US Dollar currency impact 2,739 938 Other currencies 970 599 Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, comprising current accounts, amounts held on deposit with financial institutions and investments in money market and liquidity funds.
In the case of deposits and investments in money market and liquidity funds, the Group is exposed to a credit risk, which results from the non-performance of contractual agreements on the part of the contract party.
The credit risk on liquid funds held in current accounts and available on demand is limited because the counterparties are banks with high creditratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies, with the exception of Asian-Paci c Bank, which does not have an of cially assigned credit rating.
Having performed a high level due diligence, management does not consider the credit risk associated with Asian-Paci c Bank to be high.
Asian-Paci c Bank has a wide network of branches in the Amur region and, therefore, is extensively used by the entities of the precious metals segment note 29.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amounts of the financial assets recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The major financial assets at the balance sheet date are cash and cash equivalents held with the counterparties as set out below.
Carrying Carrying amount at amount at 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Counterparty Credit rating US$000 US$000 Royal Bank of Scotland A 62,986 160,237 UBS A 55,270 49,142 Sberbank BBB 45,457 36,540 Asian-Paci c Bank 19,972 35,408 Unicredit Bank A 8,259 26,508 VTB BBB 6,599 5,614 170 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Commodity price risk The Group generates most of its revenue from the sale of gold and iron ore concentrate.
The Groups policy is to sell its products at the prevailing market price.
The Group does not hedge its exposure to the risk of uctuations in the commodity price.
Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk through the investment in Rusoro shares as well as warrants to acquire Rusoro share 2010: investment in Rusoro shares, warrants to acquire Rusoro share as well as Embedded Derivative within the Exchangeable Loan issued to Rusoro and the Call Option, which are measured at fair value and therefore exposed to changes in the Rusoro share price.
An increase decrease of 50% in the Rusoro share price, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in the following impact on the income statement and income and expenses recognised directly in equity: 2011 2010 Income and expense Income and Income recognised Income expense recognised statement directly in equity statement directly in equity US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 50% increase in the share price 272 6,707 579 50% decrease in the share price 272 2,035 96 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that suitable sources of funding for the Groups business activities may not be available.
The Group constantly monitors the level of funding required to meet its short-, mediumand long-term obligations.
The Group also monitors compliance with restrictive covenants set out in various loan agreements note 23 to ensure there is no breach of covenants resulting in associated loans become payable immediately.
Effective management of liquidity risk has the objective of ensuring the availability of adequate funding to meet short-term requirements and due obligations as well as the objective of ensuring a suf cient level of exibility in order to fund the development plans of the Groups businesses.
The table below details the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment periods.
The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash ows, these balances will not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the Group may be required to pay.
Loans outstanding at 31 December 2011 in the amount of US$337million 2010: US$30 million are subject to variable interest rates and, therefore, subject to change in line with the market rates.
171 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 33.
Operating lease arrangements The Group as a Lessee 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 4,640 5,697 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under a non-cancellable operating lease for of ce premises, which fall due as follows: 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Expiring: Within one year 9,989 1,341 In two to five years 21,181 4,290 31,170 5,631 The Group as a Lessor The Group earned property rental income during the year of US$2.6 million 2010: US$2.5 million on buildings owned by its subsidiaries Irgiredmet and Giproruda.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2011, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and mine development costs amounting to US$494.7 million 2010: US$153.8 million, including US$52.3 million in relation to pressure oxidation hub at Pioneer and US$328.2 million in relation to development of K&S project.
Contingent liabilities The Group is involved in legal proceedings with Gatnom Capital & Finance Limited and O. M. Investments & Finance Limited, who are the minority shareholders in Lapwing Limited, the Groups 99.58% owned subsidiary incorporated in Cyprus and holding a 100% interest in Garinsky Mining and Metallurgical Complex.
The claim was led in September 2008 in Cyprus and the respondents are Lapwing Limited and Aricom UK Limited.
The claimants allege their holdings in Lapwing Limited were improperly diluted as the result of the issuance of additional shares following a shareholders meeting held in September 2007.
The claimants have asked the court to dissolve Lapwing or, alternatively, to order that their shares be purchased at a price allegedly previously agreed upon or to be determined by an expert appointed by the court.
On 20 January 2010, the claimants withdrew their composite claim and reled individual claims in substantially similar form.
The Group has currently submitted an application to have the claim dismissed on the grounds that the minorities have an alternative remedy potentially available to them, and hence their claim for the winding up of Lapwing seeks a disproportionate remedy.
The maximum potential liability arising from the claim cannot currently be accurately assessed although the Directors believe that the claim is of a limited merit.
172 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information 36.
Subsequent events On 7 February 2012, the Group disposed its interest in the wholly-owned subsidiary CJSC SeverChrome for the total cash consideration of US$7.8 million.
On 22 March 2012, the Group entered into a US$200 million loan facility agreement with Sberbank.
The loan bears annual interest of 7.75% and is repayable between June 2016 and March 2018.
On 27 March 2012, the Board of Directors resolved to recommend a final dividend of 0.07 per share which is expected to result in the aggregate payment of 13.2 million.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 31 May 2012, the final dividend is proposed to be paid on 26 July 2012 to the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 June 2012.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures 2011 2010 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Pro t for the period 238,057 2,432 240,489 48,702 25,731 22,971 Add less : Interest expense 39,641 39,641 32,172 32,172 Investment income 3,119 3,119 6,525 6,525 Other finance losses gains 2,381 2,381 2,285 10,314 8,029 Foreign exchange losses 9,833 9,833 3,165 3,165 Gain on re-measuring of equity interest in Omchak on acquisition 28,882 28,882 Net gain on acquisition of Jiatai Titanium 1,439 1,439 Taxation 120,835 120,835 46,228 46,228 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 174,280 14,241 188,521 83,349 34,944 118,293 Underlying EBITDA 581,908 15,234 597,142 204,806 9,355 195,451 173 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements cont inued For the year ended 31 December 2011 38.
Group companies The Group has the following principal subsidiaries and other signi cant investments, which were consolidated in this financial information.
Proportion of shares held by Proportion of shares held by Petropavlovsk PLC the Group Principal subsidiary, joint venture and Country of 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December associate undertakings incorporation Principal activity 2011 2010 2011 2010 Subsidiary CJSC Management Company Petropavlovsk Russia Management company 100% 100% 100% 100% Petropavlovsk 2010 Jersey Finance company 100% 100% 100% 100% OJSC Pokrovskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 43.5% 43.5% 98.61% 98.61% CJSC Amur Dor Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% OJSC ZDP Koboldo Russia Gold exploration and production 95.7% 95.7% CJSC Malomirskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 99.86% 99.67% LLC Albynskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Olga Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Osipkan Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Tokurskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Rudoperspektiva Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% CJSC Region Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 98.6% CJSC Verkhnetisskaya Ore Mining Company Russia Gold exploration and production 70% 70% CJSC YamalZoloto Russia Gold exploration and production 98.6% 98.6% OJSC Yamalskaya Gornaya Kompania Russia Gold exploration and production 74.87% 74.87% LLC Iljinskoye Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Potok Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% a CJSC ZRK Omchak Russia Gold exploration and production 90% 90% 90% 90% LLC Amurmetal Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% OJSC Temi Russia Gold exploration and production 75% 75% LLC Amurskie Rossypi Russia Gold exploration and production 100% a, b CJSC Berelekh Russia Gold exploration and production 76.62% 68.95% a LLC ZeyaZoloto Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 90% a LLC Uduma Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 90% Major Miners Inc. Guyana Gold exploration and production 100% 100% Universal Mining Inc. Guyana Gold exploration and production 100% Cuyuni River Ventures Inc. Guyana Gold exploration and production 100% CJSC SeverChrome Russia Chrome exploration and production 100% 92.26% LLC Kapstroi Russia Construction services 100% 100% LLC NPGF Regis Russia Exploration services 100% 100% CJSC ZRK Dalgeologiya Russia Exploration services 98.6% 98.6% CJSC PHM Engineering Russia Project and engineering services 94% 94% OJSC Irgiredmet Russia Research services 99.69% 99.69% LLC NIC Gidrometallurgiya Russia Research services 100% 100% LLC BMRP Russia Repair and maintenance 100% 100% LLC AVT-Amur Russia Production of explosive materials 49% 49% LLC Transit Russia Transportation Services 99.86% Pokrovskiy Mining College Russia Educational institute 98.61% 98.61% Joint venture LLC GDK Odolgo Russia Gold exploration and production 49% a Including subsidiary of CJSC ZRK Omchak, being LLC Kaurchak 2010: OJSC Berelekh, LLC Kaurchak, LLC Uduma, LLC Zeyazoloto, LLC Maldyak, LLC Monolit, and LLC Elita.
b Including subsidiaries of OJSC Berelekh, being LLC Maldyak, LLC Monolit, and LLC Elita.
174 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Proportion of shares held by Proportion of shares held by Petropavlovsk PLC the Group Principal subsidiary, joint venture and Country of 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December associate undertakings incorporation Principal activity 2011 2010 2011 2010 c IRC Limited and its principal subsidiary, joint venture and associate undertakings IRC Limited HK Management and holding company 65.61% 65.61% Principal subsidiaries of IRC Limited LLC Petropavlovsk Iron Ore Russia Management company 65.61% 65.61% LLC Olekminsky Rudnik Russia Iron ore exploration and production 65.61% 65.61% LLC Kimkano-Sutarskiy GornoObogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Iron ore exploration and production 65.61% 65.61% LLC Garinsky Mining & Metallurgical Complex Russia Iron ore exploration and production 65.33% 65.33% LLC Kostenginskiy Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Iron ore exploration and production 65.61% 65.61% LLC Orlovo-Sokhatinsky GornoObogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Iron ore exploration and production 65.61% 65.61% LLC Karier Ushumunskiy Russia Iron ore exploration and production 65.61% 65.61% OJSC Giproruda Russia Engineering services 46.11% 46.11% LLC Rubicon Russia Infrastructure project 65.61% 65.61% CJSC SGMTP Russia Infrastructure project 65.61% 65.61% LLC AmurSnab Russia Procurement services 65.61% 100% Heilongjiang Jiatai Titanium Co. Limited China Titanium sponge project 65.61% 42.65% Joint ventures of IRC Limited Heilongjiang Jianlong Vanadium Industries Co. Limited China Vanadium project 30.18% 30.18% Associate of IRC Limited LLC Uralmining Russia Iron ore exploration and production 32.15% 32.15% c After taking account of the 3.36% shares retained within the Employee Bene t Trust operated in conjunction with the long-term incentive schemes of IRC Limited, the Groups effective interest in the equity of IRC Limited is 67.96%.
