Accounting Policies General information A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group manufacture, distribute and sell soft drinks.
The Group has manufacturing sites in the U. K. and sells mainly to customers in the U. K. but does have some international sales.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in Scotland.
The address of its registered office is Westfield House, 4 Mollins Road, Cumbernauld, G68 9HD.
The Company has its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated and parent Company financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the EU.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these accounts for the reasons set out in note 30.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in the accounting policies on pages 80 and 81.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under s. 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented an income statement for the Company.
Interpretations effective in 2011 The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs in the financial statements: a New and amended standards, and interpretations mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 31 January 2010 but not currently relevant to the Group although they may affect the accounting for future transactions and events The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 31 January 2010: t IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners effective on or after 1 July 2009 t IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers effective for transfer of assets received on or after 1 July 2009 t Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement: eligible hedged items effective 1 July 2009 t IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements effective 1 July 2009 t IFRS 2 amendments Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions effective from 1 January 2010 t IFRS 3 revised Business combinations effective 1 July 2009 t Various amendments to other standards as part of the IASBs Improvement Projects 2009 and 2010 b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 31 January 2010 and not adopted early The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning after 31 January 2010 unless otherwise stated, but the Group has not adopted them early.
They will be applied from 30 January 2011 and are not expected to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements: t IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 t IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments effective 1 July 2010 t Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2011 74 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Consolidation subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange and for acquisitions prior to 1 July 2009 costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
Currently there are no minority interests in any of the entities within the Group.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Revenue recognition Revenue is the net invoiced sales value exclusive of value added tax of goods and services supplied to external customers during the year.
Sales are recorded based on the price specified in the sales invoices, net of any agreed discounts.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount can be measured reliably.
Sales related discounts and rebates are calculated based on the expected amounts necessary to meet the claims of the Groups customers in respect of these discounts and rebates.
Segment reporting An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components and for which discrete financial information is available.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the management committee as chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance.
Segment results that are reported to the management committee include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment reporting for the Group is made to the gross profit level for the operating segments but no segment reporting is made for further expenditure or for the assets and liabilities of the Group.
The assets and liabilities of the Group are reported as Group totals and no reporting of these balances is recorded at a segment level.
As a result all of the Groups assets and liabilities are unallocated items and no reconciliation of segment assets to the Groups total assets is prepared.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Functional and presentation currency items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement in the same line in which the transaction is recorded.
Exceptional items As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, an item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by its nature and scale and is of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment charges.
Impairment charges on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 75 Accounting Policies continued Intangible assets continued Goodwill continued An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside of goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Brands Separately acquired brands are recognised at cost at the date of purchase.
Brands acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Brands acquired separately or through a business combination are assessed at the date of acquisition as to whether they have an indefinite life.
The assessment includes whether the brand name will continue to trade, and the expected lifetime of the brand.
All brands acquired to date have been assessed as having an indefinite life as they are expected to continue to contribute to the long term future of the Group.
The brands are reviewed annually for impairment, being carried at cost less accumulated impairment charges.
The fair value of a brand at the date of acquisition is based on the Relief from Royalties method, which is a valuation model based on discounted cash flows.
Customer relationships Customer relationships acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
The customer relationships have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method over the expected life of the customer relationship.
The closing balance in the current year represents the carrying value of the customer relationships acquired during the acquisitions of the Strathmore Water business and Groupe Rubicon Limited.
The fair value of the customer relationships at the acquisition date was based on the Multiple Excess Earnings Method MEEM which is a valuation model based on discounted cash flows.
The useful lives of customer relationships are based on the churn rate of the acquired portfolio and are up to 10 years corresponding to a yearly amortisation of between 10% and 33%.
Water rights Water rights represent the cost of purchasing the water rights at Pitcox.
This is the source of Findlays Mineral Water.
As the land rights give indefinite access to the water source at no cost, the rights have been given an indefinite life and are tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings comprise mainly factories, distribution sites and offices.
All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of any replaced part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is charged from the date that assets are available for use.
It is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost to the residual values of the related assets using the following rates: Buildings 1% Leasehold buildings Term of lease Plant, equipment and vehicles 10% to 33% The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each year end date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the net proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The Group has two properties accounted for under an operating lease.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
76 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Financial instruments Classification The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: t At fair value through profit or loss t Loans and receivables The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are derivatives designated as such on initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets as they all have a maturity less than 12 months after the year end date.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position.
Recognition and measurement Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date the date on which the Group commits to purchasing the asset.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value with related transaction costs expensed in the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Group assesses at each year end date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are presented in the income statement within administration expenses in the period in which they arise.
Impairment testing of trade receivables is described in note 16.
Non-derivative financial liabilities Financial liabilities are recognised initially on the date at which the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Groups non-derivative financial liabilities comprise borrowings and trade and other payables.
Such financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled or expire.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 77 Accounting Policies continued Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group has entered into an interest rate hedge on its loan liability.
This has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of the derivative instrument used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 12.
Movements on the hedging reserve in shareholders equity are shown in the statement of changes in equity.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as non-current when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months from the statement of financial position date and as current when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months from the statement of financial position date.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within administration costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled through the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement within Finance costs.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within administration expenses.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised within the income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of the business less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their primary distribution location and condition.
This includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating activity.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
As trade receivables are not interest-bearing subsequent measurement is at initial fair value less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the estimated cash flows.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of a bad debt provision account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within administration costs.
When a trade receivable becomes uncollectable it is written off against the bad debt provision.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks accessible on demand and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Company shares held by employee benefit trusts Company shares are purchased on behalf of employee benefit trusts to satisfy the liability of various employee share schemes.
The amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Purchased shares are classified as Company shares held by employee benefit trusts, and presented as a deduction from retained earnings.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at cost.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are classified according to the repayment terms of the facility.
All payments due within 12 months of the year end date are classified as current liabilities.
78 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Deferred income Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are treated as deferred credits and a proportion of the grants is credited each year to the income statement based on the depreciation rate for the related property, plant and equipment.
Current and deferred income tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is charged in the income statement except where it relates to tax on items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is charged to equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, in the consolidated financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: t The initial recognition of goodwill: t Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Where the carrying value of an asset is to be recovered through both use and subsequent disposal, a single tax base is attributed to that asset resulting in a single temporary difference being recognised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the year end date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Employee benefits Retirement benefit plans The Group operates two pension schemes as detailed in note 25.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Defined contribution pension plans A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Obligations for contributions are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they fall due.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Defined benefit pension plans A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The surplus liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of plan assets less the fair value of defined benefit obligation, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs at the statement of financial position date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
At 29 January 2011 a surplus was recognised on the defined benefit plan in accordance with the requirements of IFRIC 14, which gives guidance as to when defined benefit pension surpluses may be recognised.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group recognises gains and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan when the curtailment or settlement occurs.
The gain or loss on curtailment comprises any resulting change in the fair value of plan assets, changes in the present value of defined benefit obligation and any related actuarial gains and losses and past service cost that had not previously been recognised.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 79 Accounting Policies continued Employee benefits continued Share-based compensation The Group grants equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
These are measured at fair value excluding the effect of nonmarket-based vesting conditions at the grant date.
The fair value of the equity settled share-based payment determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Companys ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value through payroll.
The Group records as an expense the shares purchased by the employee.
The fair value of the share-based payments is charged to the income statement and credited to the share options reserve.
At each year end date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to the share options reserve.
Profit-sharing and bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit attributable to the Companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The Group recognises a provision where there is a contractual obligation or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Provisions A provision is recognised if, as the result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan which has been either announced or has commenced.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Key judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the statement of financial position date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
Due to the nature of estimation, the actual outcomes may well differ from these estimates.
Management have made the following judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies: Interest rate swaption and cash flow hedge note 12 The Group measures the interest rate swaption contract and the cash flow hedge contract at fair value at each statement of financial position date.
The fair value represents the net present value of the difference between the projected cash flows at the swap contract rate and the relevant interest rate for the period from the statement of financial position date to the expiry date of the contract.
The calculation uses estimates of present value and future interest rates.
Retirement benefit obligations note 25 The determination of any defined benefit pension scheme surplus obligation is based on assumptions determined with independent actuarial advice.
The assumptions used include discount rate, inflation, pension increases, salary increases, the expected return on scheme assets and mortality assumptions.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives note 10 Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives must be tested for impairment each year under IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
Determining whether there is any impairment requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill or intangible asset has been allocated.
Value in use calculations require the estimation of the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit along with a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
80 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 A total impairment charge of 1,085,000 has arisen in the year.
This followed the impairment reviews of the intangible assets associated to the Taut and Vitsmart brands.
As production of these brands has ceased in the year, the resulting intangibles have been written off in full.
In addition, the water rights associated with the Findlays brand were also written down to their expected recoverable value of 1 following declining volumes in the sales of Findlays water.
Share-based payment costs note 27 The Group makes estimations and judgements in the valuation of share-based payments.
The assumptions made at the date of granting the options include the dividend yield and the expected outcome in relation to meeting performance criteria.
Due to the size of the amounts involved any variations to the estimates will not have a significant effect on the costs recognised in the financial statements.
Fair value estimation The carrying values of trade payables and trade receivables less impairment provisions are assumed to approximate their fair values.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 81
