If you are in any doubt as to any matter referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from a stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom or, if you are not resident in the United Kingdom, from another appropriately authorised independent financial adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in A. G. BARR p. l. c. please pass this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and seventh annual general meeting of A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company will be held at the offices of KPMG LLP, 191 West George Street, Glasgow G2 2LJ on Monday, 23 May 2011 at 9.30 a. m. to consider and, if thought fit, pass the resolutions set out below.
Resolutions 1 to 13 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 14 and 15 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive and approve the audited accounts of the group and the Company for the year ended 29 January 2011 together with the directors and auditors reports thereon.
To receive and approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 29 January 2011.
To declare a final dividend of 18.66p per ordinary share for the year ended 29 January 2011.
To re-elect Mr Ronald George Hanna as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Roger Alexander White as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Alexander Brian Cooper Short as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Jonathan David Kemp as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Lewis Memmott as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr William Robin Graham Barr as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Jonathan Warburton as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Martin Andrew Griffiths as a director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit plc as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid, and to authorise the audit committee of the board of directors of the Company to fix their remuneration.
THAT the board of directors of the Company the Board be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the capital of the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,621,788.50, provided that this authority shall expire on the earlier of 31 July 2012 or at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted, or rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into shares to be granted, after such expiry and the Board may allot shares or grant such rights in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 13 set out in the notice of the annual general meeting of the Company convened for Monday, 23 May 2011 Resolution 13, the board of directors of the Company the Board be and is hereby generally empowered, pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any securities into, ordinary shares of 12.5p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares wholly for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred on them by Resolution 13 or by way of a sale of treasury shares within the meaning of section 560 3 of the Act as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: 112 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 a the allotment of equity securities for cash in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer in favour of holders of Ordinary Shares excluding the Company in its capacity as a holder of treasury shares on the register of members of the Company on a date fixed by the Board where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them on that date subject to such exclusions or other arrangements in connection with the rights issue, open offer or other offer as the Board deem necessary or expedient to deal with i equity securities representing fractional entitlements: ii treasury shares: or iii legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 243,268 provided that this authority shall expire on the earlier of 31 July 2012 or at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of this authority and the Board may allot equity securities pursuant to such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 12.5p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares on such terms and in such manner that the directors think fit, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: b the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five dealing days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out, and the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 12.5p, being the nominal value of an Ordinary Share in each case exclusive of associated expenses : c unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of 31 July 2012 or at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, but a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares may be made before such expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract: and d an Ordinary Share so purchased shall be cancelled or, if the directors so determine and subject to the provisions of applicable laws or regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, held as a treasury share.
A. Barr Company Secretary 21 April 2011 Registered Office A. G. BARR p. l. c. Westfield House 4 Mollins Road Cumbernauld G68 9HD Registered in Scotland SC005653 Shareholders should also read the notes to this Notice of Annual General Meeting which are set out on pages 116 to 118 of this document.
Those notes provide further information about shareholders entitlement to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting or appoint another person to do so on their behalf.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 113 Explanatory Notes The following notes provide an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the one hundred and seventh annual general meeting the AGM of A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company.
Resolutions 1 to 13 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 14 and 15 will be proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolution 1 Receive and approve the reports and accounts Shareholders are being asked to receive and approve the audited accounts of the group and the Company as audited by KPMG Audit plc KPMG for the year ended 29 January 2011 together with the associated reports of the directors and auditors.
Resolution 2 Directors remuneration report Shareholders are being asked to approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 29 January 2011 which is set out on pages 55 to 62 of this document.
Resolution 3 Final dividend Shareholders are being asked to approve a final dividend of 18.66p per ordinary share for the year ended 29 January 2011.
If shareholders approve the recommended final dividend, it will be paid on 3 June 2011 to all shareholders on the Companys register of members on 6 May 2011.
Resolutions 4 to 11 inclusive Re-election of directors The Companys articles of association require that all newly appointed directors retire at the first annual general meeting following their appointment.
Consequently, Mr M. A. Griffiths will retire and offer himself for re-election by shareholders.
In addition, the board of directors of the Company the Board has decided to adopt the provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code whereby all directors are subject to annual re-election.
Accordingly, all of the other directors of the Company are retiring and offering themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 45 of this document.
The Board has confirmed that, following formal performance evaluation, all of the directors standing for re-election continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Board therefore unanimously recommends the re-election of the directors proposed.
Resolution 12 Re-appointment of auditors The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts are presented to shareholders and KPMG have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, shareholders are being asked to re-appoint KPMG as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the audit committee of the Board to fix their remuneration.
Resolution 13 Authority to allot shares The directors may not allot new shares in the Company unless authorised to do so by shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution 13, if passed, will authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares having an aggregate nominal value of up to 1,621,788.50, representing approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital being approximately one third of 38,922,926 ordinary shares as at 20 April 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
The directors have no present intention to exercise the authority sought under this resolution.
The authority sought under Resolution 13 will expire on the earlier of 31 July 2012 being the latest date by which the Company must hold its annual general meeting in 2012 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2012.
114 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Resolution 14 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights If the directors wish to allot new shares for cash, the Companies Act 2006 states that the new shares must be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
For legal, regulatory and practical reasons, however, it might not be possible or desirable for new shares allotted by means of a pre-emptive offer to be offered to certain shareholders, particularly those resident overseas.
Furthermore, it might in some circumstances be in the Companys interests for the directors to be able to allot some shares for cash without having to offer them first to existing shareholders.
To enable this to be done, shareholders statutory pre-emption rights must be disapplied.
Accordingly, Resolution 14, if passed, will empower the directors to allot a limited number of new equity securities without shareholders statutory pre-emption rights applying to such allotment.
The authority conferred by Resolution 14 would also cover the sale of treasury shares for cash.
Sub-paragraph a of Resolution 14 would confer authority on the directors to make any arrangements which may be necessary to deal with any legal, regulatory or practical problems arising on a rights issue, an open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders, for example, by excluding certain overseas shareholders from such issue or offer.
Sub-paragraph b of Resolution 14 would disapply shareholders statutory pre-emption rights by empowering the directors to allot equity securities for cash on a non pre-emptive basis but only new equity securities having a maximum aggregate nominal value of 243,268, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital being approximately 5% of 38,922,926 ordinary shares as at 20 April 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
The authority sought under Resolution 14 will expire on the earlier of 31 July 2012 being the latest date by which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2012 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2012.
Resolution 15 Purchase of own shares The Companies Act 2006 permits a company to purchase its own shares provided the purchase has been authorised by shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution 15, if passed, would give the Company the authority to purchase any of its own issued ordinary shares at a price of not less than 12.5p per share and not more than the higher of i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five dealing days before any purchase is made: and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent trade on the London Stock Exchange.
The authority will enable the purchase of up to a maximum of 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the AGM, and will expire on the earlier of 31 July 2012 being the latest date by which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2012 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2012.
The directors will only exercise this buy back authority after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company.
Purchases would be financed out of distributable profits and shares purchased would either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly or held as treasury shares.
The Company operates two share option schemes under which awards may be satisfied by the allotment or transfer of ordinary shares to a scheme participant.
However, in practice, the Company has always satisfied awards to participants by the transfer of ordinary shares from the trustee of each of the schemes.
As at 1 April 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, options had been granted over 568,983 ordinary shares the Option Shares representing approximately 1.46% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares were exercised in full, the Option Shares would represent approximately 1.62% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 1 April 2011.
As at 1 April 2011, the Company did not hold any treasury shares.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 115 Notes 1.
Attending the annual general meeting the AGM in person If you wish to attend the AGM in person, you should arrive at the venue for the AGM in good time to allow your attendance to be registered.
It is advisable to have some form of identification with you as you may be asked to provide evidence of your identity to the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited the Registrar, prior to being admitted to the AGM.
Appointment of proxies Members are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the AGM to represent a member.
To be validly appointed, a proxy must be appointed using the procedures set out in these notes and in the notes to the accompanying proxy form.
If a member wishes a proxy to speak on their behalf at the AGM, the member will need to appoint their own choice of proxy not the Chairman of the AGM and give their instructions directly to them.
Such an appointment can be made using the proxy form accompanying this notice of AGM or through CREST.
Members can only appoint more than one proxy where each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
Members cannot appoint more than one proxy to exercise the rights attached to the same share s. If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy, they should contact the Registrar at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR.
A member may instruct their proxy to abstain from voting on a particular resolution to be considered at the AGM by marking the Withheld option in relation to that particular resolution when appointing their proxy.
It should be noted that an abstention is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against the resolution.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from attending the AGM and voting in person if he or she wishes.
A person who is not a member of the Company but who has been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights does not have a right to appoint any proxies under the procedures set out in these notes and should read note 8 below.
Appointment of a proxy using a proxy form A proxy form for use in connection with the AGM is enclosed.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand by the Registrar at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR at least 48 hours before the time of the AGM or any adjournment of that meeting.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or you require additional proxy forms, please contact the Registrar at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR.
Appointment of a proxy through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and by logging on to the following website: www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Registrar ID RA19 no later than 48 hours before the time of the AGM or any adjournment of that meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
116 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Appointment of a proxy by joint holders In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint one or more proxies, only the purported appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first named being the most senior.
Corporate representatives Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives.
Members can only appoint more than one corporate representative where each corporate representative is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
Members cannot appoint more than one corporate representative to exercise the rights attached to the same share s. 7.
Entitlement to attend and vote To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of determining the votes they may cast, members must be registered in the Companys register of members at 6.00 p. m. on 21 May 2011 or, if the AGM is adjourned, at 6.00 p. m. on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Companys register of members after the relevant deadline will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the AGM.
Nominated persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the member by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Website giving information regarding the AGM Information regarding the AGM, including information required by section 311A of the 2006 Act, and a copy of this notice of AGM is available from www.
Audit concerns Members should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under section 527 of the 2006 Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 2006 Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 117 Notes continued 11.
Voting rights As at 20 April 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 38,922,926 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 20 April 2011 were 38,922,926 votes.
Notification of shareholdings Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of the AGM as his proxy will need to ensure that both he, and his proxy, comply with their respective disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Further questions and communication Under section 319A of the 2006 Act, the Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM put by a member attending the meeting unless answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, or the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Members who have any general queries about the AGM should contact the Company Secretarial Department by email on @agbarr.
Members may not use any electronic address provided in this document or in any related documents including the accompanying proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Documents available for inspection The following documents will be available for inspection on the date of the AGM at the offices of KPMG LLP, 191 West George Street, Glasgow G2 2LJ from 9.15 a. m. until the conclusion of the AGM: 14.1 copies of the service contracts of the Companys executive directors: and 14.2 copies of the letters of appointment of the Companys non-executive directors.
118 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Form of Direction Annual general meeting of A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company to be held at the offices of KPMG LLP, 191 West George Street, Glasgow G2 2LJ at 9.30 a. m. on Monday, 23 May 2011 the Annual General Meeting.
To: Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustee as trustee of the A. G. BARR p. l. c. All-Employee Share Ownership Plan the Plan.
In respect of the Companys shares held by you on my behalf under the Plan, I request you to vote on my behalf at the Annual General Meeting, and any adjournment thereof, in the manner indicated below see Note 2 : Resolution For Against Withheld 1.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit plc as auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
To authorise the directors to allot shares in the Company subject to the restrictions set out in the resolution.
To authorise the disapplication of pre-emption rights subject to the limits set out in the resolution.
To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares up to a specified amount.
Please note that the A. G. BARR p. l. c. All-Employee Share Ownership Plan is administered by Equiniti Limited.
All enquiries should be directed to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR.
Please indicate how you wish your vote to be cast by marking the appropriate box with an X.
The Trustee will abstain from voting on any particular resolution if no instruction is given in respect of that resolution and will exercise their discretion as to how they vote in relation to any other business which may come before the meeting.
The vote Withheld option is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
It should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of votes For or Against a resolution.
Forms of Direction must be signed and returned to the Trustee, care of Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR so as to be received no later than 9.30 a. m. on 20 May 2011.
This Form of Direction is not to be regarded as an invitation to attend in person, or vote at, the Annual General Meeting.
Signature Date Print Name Address To be valid, the Form of Direction must be lodged with Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR by 9.30 a. m. on Friday, 20 May 2011.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Proxy Form Annual general meeting of A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company to be held at the offices of KPMG LLP, 191 West George Street, Glasgow G2 2LJ at 9.30 a. m. on Monday, 23 May 2011 the Annual General Meeting.
I we the undersigned, being a member members of the Company, hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting or see Note 1 Name Number of shares see Notes 3 and 4 as my our proxy to attend, vote and speak for me us on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting, and at any adjournment thereof.
Please indicate here with an X if this Proxy Form is one of multiple instructions being given see Note 3.
I we direct my our proxy to vote on the resolutions set out in the notice convening the Annual General Meeting as follows see Note 2 : Resolution For Against Withheld 1.
If you wish to appoint a proxy other than the Chairman, please add his or her name in the blank space provided, delete the words the Chairman of the meeting or and initial the alteration.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting in person to represent you.
If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at the meeting, you will need to appoint your own choice of proxy not the Chairman and give your instructions directly to them.
To direct your proxy how to vote on the resolutions, please mark the appropriate box with an X.
Unless you indicate otherwise, your proxy may vote or abstain from voting as he she thinks fit.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint any more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to the same share s. To appoint more than one proxy, you should photocopy the Proxy Form.
On each Proxy Form, please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which you authorise them to act as your proxy.
The total number of shares entered on all the Proxy Forms you submit must not exceed the number of shares you hold in the Company.
Please also indicate, by marking the relevant box, if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
To be valid, all Proxy Forms and additional Proxy Forms must be signed and returned to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR in the enclosed envelope so as to be received no later than 9.30 a. m. on 21 May 2011.
A stamp is not required if posted in the UK.
Where multiple Proxy Forms are completed, they should be returned together in the same envelope.
If no number of shares is entered, the proxy will be authorised to act on your behalf in relation to your entire shareholding in the Company.
If no voting indication is given, your proxy may vote or abstain from voting at his her discretion.
A Proxy Form for a body corporate must be either signed by a duly authorised officer or attorney of such body or executed under its common seal.
If this Proxy Form is signed under a power of attorney or other authority, that power of attorney or other authority or a certified copy thereof must be provided with the signed Proxy Form.
Only one of the joint holders need sign the Proxy Form.
If more than one joint holder tenders a vote in person or by proxy, the vote of the person whose name stands first in the register will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holder s. 8.
Completion of this Proxy Form will not preclude you from attending and voting in person at the meeting should you so wish whereupon your proxy appointment will be automatically terminated.
Signature Date Print Name Address To be valid, the Proxy Form and any additional Proxy Forms must be lodged with Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR by 9.30 a. m. on Saturday, 21 May 2011.
This publication was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-recognised printer.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Westfield House 4 Mollins Road Cumbernauld G68 9HD 01236 852 400 www.
co. uk Registered Office Westfield House 4 Mollins Road Cumbernauld G68 9HD Secretary Julie A. Barr, M. A. Hons.
Auditors KPMG Audit plc 191 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LJ Registrars Equiniti Ltd Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Registered Number SC005653 www.
