100 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements 1 The Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies and financial risk management 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements 1a General information about the Group The preparation of these financial statements requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and The business of the Group judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies ARM or the Group designs microprocessors, physical IP and and judgements are summarised in note 1d.
related technology and software, and sells development tools, to enhance the performance, cost-effectiveness and energy-efficiency of high-volume embedded applications.
New standards, amendments and interpretations The Group licenses and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2011 turn manufacture, market and sell microcontrollers, application-specific integrated circuits ASICs and applicationAmendment to IAS 24 Related party disclosures This clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party.
specific standard processors ASSPs based on ARMs technology to systems companies for incorporation into a The change in definition has not had an impact on the identification of the Groups related parties.
Published by wide variety of end products.
the IASB in November 2009, this is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
This amendment was endorsed by the EU on 19 July 2010.
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to best utilise ARMs technology, the Group is establishing its processor architecture and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor applications, b Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted including cellular phones, digital televisions and PC peripherals and for use in many growing markets, including smart IFRS 9 Financial instruments on classification and measurement This is the first part of a new standard to replace IAS cards and microcontrollers.
IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to systems companies and provides support services and the cash flows represent principal and interest.
Otherwise it is measured at fair value through the income to its licensees, systems companies and other systems designers.
This standard is not expected to have a material impact on the results of the Group.
Published by the The Groups principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
IASB in November 2009, this is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
This standard is not yet endorsed by the EU.
Incorporation and history ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England and Wales.
The registered IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 10 replaces the guidance on control and consolidation in IAS 27, office of the Company is 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK.
Consolidated and separate financial statements, and SIC-12, Consolidation - special purpose entities and changes the definition of control so that the same criteria are applied to all entities.
The revised definition of control The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer UK Limited and focuses on the need to have both power and variable returns before control is present.
Power is the current ability Acorn Computers Limited, and operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limited until to direct the activities that significantly influence returns.
Returns must vary and can be positive, negative or both.
10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc.
Its initial public offering was on 17 April 1998.
This is not currently relevant but could have an impact if there are any changes to the structure of the Group.
Group undertakings include ARM Limited incorporated in the UK, ARM Inc. incorporated in the US, ARM KK The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
It is not yet endorsed by the EU.
incorporated in Japan, ARM Korea Limited incorporated in South Korea, ARM France SAS incorporated in IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Changes in the definitions have reduced the types of joint arrangements to two: joint France, ARM Germany GmbH incorporated in Germany, ARM Norway AS incorporated in Norway, ARM operations and joint ventures.
The existing policy choice of proportionate consolidation for jointly controlled entities Sweden AB incorporated in Sweden, ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
Limited incorporated in India, ARM has been eliminated.
Equity accounting is mandatory for participants in joint ventures.
Entities that participate in joint Taiwan Limited incorporated in Taiwan and ARM Consulting Shanghai Co. Limited incorporated in PR China.
operations will follow accounting much like that for joint assets or joint operations today, whereby a joint operator will 1b Summary of significant accounting policies recognise its interest based on its involvement in the joint operation that is, based on its direct rights and obligations The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set rather than on the participation interest it has in the joint arrangement.
In contrast, a joint venture does not have out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
rights to individual assets or obligations for individual liabilities of the joint venture.
Instead, joint venturers share in the net assets and, in turn, the outcome profit or loss of the activity undertaken by the joint venture.
This is not currently Basis of preparation relevant but could have an impact if there are any changes to the structure of the Group.
This standard is effective These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The standard is not yet endorsed by the EU.
Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
This is in accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities IFRS 12 sets out the required disclosures for entities reporting under Authority.
the two new standards, IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, and IFRS 11, Joint arrangements.
The new standard, IFRS 12, requires entities to disclose information that helps financial statement readers to evaluate the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by: nature, risks and financial effects associated with the entitys interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale financial assets: financial assets and liabilities including derivative and unconsolidated structured entities.
This is not currently relevant but could have an impact if there are any instruments at fair value through the income statement: and embedded derivatives.
changes to the structure of the Group.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
indd 100 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 101 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements 1 The Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies and financial risk management 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements 1a General information about the Group The preparation of these financial statements requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and The business of the Group judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
indd 101 28 02 2012 19:16 102 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued IFRS 13 Fair value measurement The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRS and US GAAP, do not Subsidiaries extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the required or permitted by other standards.
IFRS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when across IFRSs.
This standard is not expected to have a material impact on the results of the Group, but it could have if assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
the Group were to enter into additional transactions that are covered by this standard.
The standard is effective for Associates annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benefits This amendment makes significant changes to the recognition and a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the measurement of termination benefits, and to the disclosures for all employee benefits.
The distinction between shortequity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the and long-term benefits for measurement purposes is based on when payment is expected, not when payment can carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after be demanded.
However, the amendment does not alter the balance sheet classification of the liabilities recorded the date of acquisition.
in respect of the benefit obligation.
It is considered that this will not have a material impact on the results of the Foreign currency translation Group.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The standard is not yet a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of each Group entity is the currency of the endorsed by the EU.
primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
The consolidated financial statements are presented IAS 28 Revised Investments in associates and joint ventures IAS 28 defines significant influence and the in sterling, which is the presentation currency of the Group.
equity method and provides guidance on their practical application.
The revised standard incorporates the b Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into the accounting for joint ventures as well as the consensus from SIC-13.
The disclosure requirements have now been functional currency of each Group entity at actual rates of exchange ruling at the date of transaction.
This new guidance may impact the classification of investments acquired in the future.
This is not assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet currently relevant but could have an impact if there are any changes to the structure of the Group.
Exchange differences have been included in general and administrative expenses.
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities none of which has the currency Segment reporting of a hyper-inflationary economy not based in the UK are translated into sterling as follows: At 31 December 2011, the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three business segments, namely the i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate of exchange at the Processor Division PD, the Physical IP Division PIPD and the System Design Division SDD.
This is based upon the balance sheet date: Groups internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM and the rest of the Board are provided with financial information.
The directors believe ii Income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer of the Group.
time of each transaction during the period: and Segment expenses are expenses that are directly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity, being taken through of other expenses that can reasonably be allocated by segment.
Foreign exchange gains or losses, investment other comprehensive income via the cumulative translation adjustment.
income, interest payable and similar charges and tax are not allocated by segment.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised through other Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
reasonable basis of shared items.
Corporate assets and liabilities are not included in business segments and are thus Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities unallocated.
At 31 December 2011 and 2010, these comprised cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
deposits, available-for-sale financial assets, loans and receivables, embedded derivatives, and the fair value of currency exchange contracts.
Current and deferred tax assets, VAT, and liabilities are also not included in business segments and are thus unallocated.
Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
Intra-group transactions, including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on consolidation.
All subsidiaries use uniform accounting policies.
Business combinations The results of subsidiaries acquired in the year are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Assets and liabilities existing at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition at that date.
Earn-outs paid as part of an acquisition are assessed on an individual basis and treated as either part of the acquisition consideration or as employee compensation depending on the nature of the agreement.
indd 102 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 103 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued IFRS 13 Fair value measurement The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRS and US GAAP, do not Subsidiaries extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the required or permitted by other standards.
indd 103 28 02 2012 19:16 104 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue recognition continued The Group follows the principles of IAS 18, Revenue recognition, in determining appropriate revenue recognition Many licence agreements are for products which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each policies.
In principle, therefore, revenue associated with the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following customer.
Revenue from the sale of such licences is recognised on a  basis over the conditions have been satisfied: period from signing of the licence to customer acceptance.
Under the  method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the period in which the likelihood of such the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods: losses is determined.
The  is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time the Group does not retain either continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with incurred to date in the project compared with the total estimated project requirement, which approximates to the ownership or effective control over the goods sold: extent of performance.
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: Where invoicing milestones in licence arrangements are such that the receipts fall due significantly outside the period over which the customisation is expected to be performed or significantly outside its normal payment terms it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: and for standard licence arrangements, the Group evaluates whether it is probable that economic benefits associated the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
with these milestones will flow to the Group and therefore whether these receipts should initially be included in the arrangement consideration.
Revenue associated with the rendering of services is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: In particular, it considers: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be raised in the expected timeframe, particularly where the invoicing milestone is in some way dependent on customer activity: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the Group: whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Groups contractual obligations have the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably: and been, or will be, fulfilled: the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs expected to be incurred will indeed be incurred before Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the the customer will accept that a future invoice may be raised: and Group.
the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar customers supports the conclusions Revenue comprises the value of sales of licences to ARM technology, royalties arising from the resulting sale of reached.
licensees ARM technology-based products, revenues from support, maintenance and training, consulting contracts Where the Group considers that there is insufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits and the sale of development boards and software toolkits.
associated with such future milestones will flow to the Group, taking into account these criteria, such milestones are Revenue from standard licence products which are not modified to meet the specific requirements of each excluded from the arrangement consideration until there is sufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic customer is recognised when all of the conditions relevant to revenue associated with the sale of goods have been benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
The Group does not discount future invoicing satisfied: milestones, as the effect of so doing would be immaterial.
The significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred when a licence arrangement has been agreed and Where agreements involve several components, the entire fee from such arrangements is allocated to each of the the goods have been delivered to the customer: individual components based on each components fair value, where fair value is the price that is regularly charged for an item when sold separately.
Where a component in a multiple-component agreement has not previously Continuing managerial involvement and effective control over goods sold is relinquished at the point at which been sold separately, the assessment of fair value for that component is based on other factors including, but not goods are delivered to the customer: limited to, the price charged when it was sold alongside other items and the book price of the component relative The amount of revenue can be measured reliably: any consideration due under the licensing arrangement that to the book prices of the other components in the agreement.
If fair value of one or more components in a multipleis not deemed to be reliably measurable is deferred until it can be measured reliably: and component agreement is not determinable where such component is not considered incidental to the overall arrangement, the entire arrangement fee is deferred until such fair value is determinable, or the component has It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: any economic been delivered to the licensee.
Where, in substance, two or more elements of a contract are linked and fair values benefits of the transaction that are deemed unlikely to flow to the Group are deferred until it becomes probable cannot be allocated to the individual components, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the elements that they will flow to the Group.
as if they were a single element.
The majority of the Groups revenues come from the licensing of intellectual property and there are therefore very Agreements including rights to unspecified future products as opposed to unspecified upgrades and few direct costs associated with the sale of goods: where there are direct costs of revenues, these are measured enhancements are accounted for using subscription accounting, with revenue from the arrangement being with reference to the purchasing agreements in place with the Groups suppliers.
recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement, or an estimate of the economic life of the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the first product.
indd 104 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 105 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue recognition continued The Group follows the principles of IAS 18, Revenue recognition, in determining appropriate revenue recognition Many licence agreements are for products which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each policies.
indd 105 28 02 2012 19:16 106 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Research and development expenditure In addition to licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-delivery service support, in the All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Where a product is technically form of support, maintenance and training which consists of the right to receive services and or unspecified product feasible, production and sale are intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured reliably, and sufficient upgrades or enhancements that are offered on a  basis.
Fees for post-delivery service support resources are available to complete the project, development costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line are generally specified in the contract.
Revenue related to post-delivery service support is recognised based on fair basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product.
The Group believes its current process for developing value, which is determined with reference to contractual renewal rates.
If no renewal rates are specified, and fair products is essentially completed concurrently with the establishment of technological feasibility which is evidenced value of the post-delivery support service cannot be determined by other methods, the entire fee under the by a working model.
Accordingly, development costs incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility transaction is amortised and recognised on a straight-line basis over the contractual post-delivery service support have not been significant and, therefore, no costs have been capitalised to date.
Where renewal rates are specified, revenue for post-delivery service support is recognised on a straight-line Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an basis over the period for which support and maintenance is contractually agreed by the Group with the licensee.
expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Any collaborative agreement whereby a third party agrees to partially If the amount of revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoiced to customers, the excess amount is recorded fund the Groups research and development is recognised over the period of the agreement as a credit within as amounts recoverable on contracts within accounts receivable.
The excess of licence fees and post-delivery research and development costs.
service support invoiced over revenue recognised is recorded as deferred revenue.
Retirement benefit costs Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specifically designed for a given licence such as The Group contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US off-the-shelf software are recognised upon delivery, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been and to government pension schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China, Israel and India.
At that time, the Group has no further obligations except that, where necessary, the The Group contributes to these plans based upon various fixed percentages of employee compensation, and costs associated with providing post-delivery service support have been accrued.
Services such as training that the such contributions are expensed as incurred.
Group provides which are not essential to the functionality of the IP are separately stated and priced in the contract Operating leases and, therefore, accounted for separately.
Revenue is recognised as services are performed and it is probable that Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the Group.
Costs, net of any lease incentives, in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Groups customers of products containing ARM technology.
basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on such a basis.
Royalty revenues are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenues are recognised when the Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is Group receives notification from the customer of product sales, or receives payment of any fixed royalties.
accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Notification is typically received in the quarter following shipment of the products by the customer.
Dividends Certain products have been co-developed by the Group and a collaborative partner, where both parties had the Distributions to owners of the Company are not recognised in the income statement under IFRS, but are disclosed right to sell licences to the product.
In those cases where the Group receives royalty revenues from the sale of these as a component of the movement in shareholders equity.
A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend products, the total value of the royalty is recorded as revenue and the amount payable to the collaborative partner is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid.
is recorded as cost of revenues.
Where the collaborative partner collects royalties on the sales of these products, Earnings per share the Group records as revenue the commission it is due when informed by the collaborative partner that a sale has Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted been made.
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding treasury shares, which are treated as As disclosed above, in accordance with IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume the Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies.
In particular, as discussed in detail conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
above, estimates are made in relation to the use of the  accounting method, which requires that the extent of progress toward completion of contracts may be anticipated with reasonable certainty.
The use of the  method is itself based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, there is an insignificant risk that customer acceptance is not obtained.
The Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of the extent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future economic benefit to the Group.
In addition, when allocating revenue to various components of arrangements involving several components, it is assumed that the fair value of each element is reflected by its price when sold separately.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue recognition policies affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
If different assumptions were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
indd 106 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 107 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Research and development expenditure In addition to licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-delivery service support, in the All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
indd 107 28 02 2012 19:16 108 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets continued The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any costs attributable to bringing the Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, which asset to its working condition for its intended use.
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they are adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful enhance the future economic benefit of the asset.
economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives used for this purpose are: Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these Computer software Three to five years assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Patents and licences Three to ten years Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual In-process research and development One to five years values, which are adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected Developed technology One to five years useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives used for this purpose are: Existing agreements and customer relationships One to six years Freehold buildings 25 years Core technology Five years Leasehold improvements Five to seven years or term of lease, whichever is shorter Trademarks and tradenames One to five years Computer equipment Three to five years Order backlog One year Fixtures and fittings, and motor vehicles Four to ten years Impairment of non-financial assets Provision is made against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually is deemed to have occurred.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances recognised within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid on acquisition of a business amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For purposes over the fair value of the assets, including any intangible assets identified, and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is not of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses.
In determining the fair value of consideration, the fair value cash generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of completion, the fair value of share options is calculated possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and the fair value of contingent consideration is based upon whether the directors believe any performance conditions will be met and thus whether any further consideration will be The annual impairment tests in 2011 and 2010 showed there was no impairment with respect to goodwill.
Furthermore, no trigger events have been identified that would suggest the impairment of any of the Groups other intangible assets.
b Other intangible assets Computer software, purchased patents and licences to use technology are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over an estimate of the time that the Group is expected Financial assets to benefit from them.
Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business application software The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through the income statement, loans and which are incurred during the period prior to the date that the software is placed into operational use, are and receivables, and available-for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets capitalised.
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit were acquired.
The directors determine the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets at fair value through the income Although an independent valuation is made of any intangible assets purchased as part of a business combination, statement are financial assets held for trading that is, assets that have been acquired principally for the purpose of the directors are primarily responsible for determining the fair value of intangible assets.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
They are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs being expensed in the income statement.
Specifically, the Groups currency exchange In-process research and development projects purchased as part of a business combination may meet the criteria contracts and embedded derivatives fall within this category.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value set out in IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, for recognition as intangible assets other than goodwill.
of financial assets at fair value through the income statement are presented in the income statement within The directors track the status of in-process research and development intangible assets such that their amortisation general and administrative expenses in the period in which they arise.
commences when the assets are brought into use.
indd 108 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 109 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets continued The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any costs attributable to bringing the Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, which asset to its working condition for its intended use.
indd 109 28 02 2012 19:16 110 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable Cash and cash equivalents payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Accounts receivable, investments with original maturities of three months or less.
cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits are classified as Loans and receivables in the Shortand long-term deposits balance sheet.
The Group considers all highly-liquid investments with original maturity dates of greater than three months and Loans and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then subsequently measured at amortised cost.
maturing in less than one year to be short-term deposits.
Deposits with a maturity date of greater than one year from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term.
c Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current Accounts receivable assets unless the directors intend to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Accounts receivable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established Publicly-traded investments are classified as available-for-sale.
Initially recognised at fair value on the trade date plus when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the transaction costs, they are revalued at market value at each period end.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such original terms of the receivables.
securities are recognised, net of related taxes, through other comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve except where there is evidence of permanent impairment see below.
Accounts receivable are first assessed individually for impairment.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments Equity investments that are not publicly traded are also classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired.
Where there is plus transaction costs.
Given that the markets for these assets are not active, the Group establishes fair value by no objective evidence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is included in a group of receivables with similar using valuation techniques.
The estimated fair value of these investments approximated to cost less any permanent credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment.
diminution in value based on estimates determined by the directors, except where independent valuation information is obtained.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such securities are recognised, net of related taxes, In the case of impairment, the carrying amount of the asset s is reduced through the use of an allowance account, through other comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve, except where there is evidence of permanent and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within general and administrative costs.
When a impairment in which case the loss is recognised through the income statement within general and administrative trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative costs in the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets The Group considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that any financial asset is impaired.
Inventories If there is such an indication, the Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets recoverable amount, Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis and which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and their value in use.
If the recoverable amount is less includes transport and handling costs.
Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective than the carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised, and the assets are written down to their recoverable inventory.
Accounts payable In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are permanently impaired.
If any such effective interest method.
evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between Income taxes the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any permanent impairment loss on that financial asset previously The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment balance sheet date in the countries where the Groups subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
The directors periodically evaluate positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or permanently impaired, the accumulated fair value tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts adjustments recognised through other comprehensive income are recycled through the income statement.
expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Impairment testing of trade receivables is described under Accounts receivable below.
Derivative financial instruments The Group utilises currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivable, denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the business.
The Groups currency exchange contracts do not subject the Group to risk from exchange rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions being hedged.
The currency exchange contracts and related accounts receivable are recorded at fair value at each period end.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments.
All recognised gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The Group does not enter into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
indd 110 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 111 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable Cash and cash equivalents payments that are not quoted in an active market.
indd 111 28 02 2012 19:16 112 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Income taxes continued Share-based payments Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method.
Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and based payments, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is liabilities and are measured using enacted rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equityreverse.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will arise against The Group operates Save As You Earn SAYE schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP in the which the temporary differences will be utilised.
Options under the SAYE schemes are granted at a 20% discount to the market price of the underlying shares on Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the date of announcement of the scheme and at a 15% discount to the lower of the market prices at the beginning the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference and end of the scheme for the ESPP.
The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the UK tax authorities, which stipulates will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arising in the same tax jurisdiction are that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
The Group has recognised a compensation charge in respect of offset.
the SAYE plans and US ESPPs.
The charges for these are calculated as detailed above.
In the UK and the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on exercise The Group also has a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP on which it is also required to recognise a compensation of certain employee share options or vest of share awards under each jurisdictions tax rules.
As explained under charge under IFRS 2, calculated as detailed above.
Share-based payments below, a compensation expense is recorded in the Groups income statement over the The share-based payments charge is allocated to cost of sales, research and development expenses, sales and period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options and awards.
As there is a temporary marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses on the basis of headcount.
difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is recorded.
The deferred tax asset arising Employers taxes on share options is calculated by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future based on the Employers National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the exercise Companys share price at the balance sheet date with the cumulative amount of the compensation expense of certain share options and vesting of share awards.
In accordance with IFRS 2, this is treated as a cash-settled recorded in the income statement.
If the amount of estimated future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative transaction.
A provision is made, calculated using the intrinsic value of the relevant options and awards at the amount of the compensation expense at the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against balance sheet date, and pro-rated over the vesting period of the options and awards.
Treasury shares As explained under Share-based payments below, no compensation charge is recorded in respect of options Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including granted before 7 November 2002 or in respect of those options which have been exercised or have lapsed before any directly attributable incremental transaction costs is deducted from equity attributable to the owners of the 1 January 2005.
Nevertheless, tax deductions have arisen and will continue to arise on these options.
The tax effects Company until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any arising in relation to these options are recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax Provisions effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive Share capital obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
obligation: and the amount of the outflow can be reliably estimated.
1c Financial risk management Embedded derivatives The Group operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry which has been characterised by price In accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, the Group has reviewed all its erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns and heightened foreign contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain and domestic competition.
Significant technological changes in the industry could affect operating results.
requirements set out in the standard.
From time to time, the Group may enter into contracts denominated in a currency typically US dollars that is neither the functional currency of the Group entity nor the functional currency The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include currency risk, interest rate risk, securities of the customer or the collaborative partner.
Where there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, the Group price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
carries such derivatives at fair value.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement under general Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated the responsibility for monitoring financial risk and administrative expenses.
management to a sub-committee of the Board.
The policies set by the directors are implemented by the Groups finance and treasury departments.
The Group has a treasury policy that sets out specific guidelines to manage currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and also sets out circumstances where it would be appropriate to use financial instruments to manage these.
indd 112 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 113 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Income taxes continued Share-based payments Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method.
indd 113 28 02 2012 19:16 114 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued 1c Financial risk management continued Currency risk Interest rate risk The Groups earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in At 31 December 2011, the Group had 442.2 million 2010: 305.1 million of interest-bearing assets.
respect of the US dollar, reflecting the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars, At 31 December 2011, 92% 2010: 89% of interest-bearing assets comprising cash and cash equivalents, shortwhile a significant proportion of its costs are settled in sterling.
The Group seeks to use currency exchange contracts and long-term deposits, loans and receivables, and the Groups convertible loan notes are at fixed rates and are and currency options to manage the US dollar sterling risk as appropriate, by monitoring the timing and value of therefore exposed to fair value interest rate risk.
Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBID anticipated US dollar receipts which tend to arise from low-volume, high-value licence deals and royalty receipts or base rate equivalents and is therefore exposed to cash flow interest rate risk.
The proportion of funds held in fixed in comparison with its requirement to settle certain expenses in US dollars.
The Group reviews the resulting exposure rather than floating rate deposits is determined in accordance with the policy outlined under Liquidity risk below.
on a regular basis and hedges this exposure using currency exchange contracts and currency options for the sale Other financial assets, such as available-for-sale financial assets, are not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
of US dollars as appropriate.
Such contracts are entered into with the objective of matching their maturity with Had interest rates been 1% lower throughout the year, interest receivable would have reduced by approximately projected US dollar cash receipts.
3.4 million 2010: 1.9 million and profit after tax by 2.6 million 2010: 1.4 million.
The Group is also exposed to currency risk in respect of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of its The Group had no borrowings during 2011 or 2010. overseas subsidiaries.
At present, the Group does not consider this to be a significant risk since the Group does not The Group had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate fluctuations in place at the year-end intend to move assets between group companies.
since it has no loan financing, and as such no hedge accounting is applied.
The Groups cash flow is carefully At 31 December 2011, the Group had outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $54 million 2010: $65 million monitored on a daily basis.
Excess cash, considering expected future cash flows, is placed on either short-term for sterling.
In addition, the Group utilises option instruments which have various provisions that, depending on the or long-term deposits to maximise the interest income thereon.
Daily surpluses are swept into higher-interest earning spot rate at maturity, give either the Group or the counterparty the option to exercise.
At 31 December 2011, the accounts overnight.
Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group may, under certain circumstances, be required to Securities price risk sell up to $207 million 2010: $208 million for sterling.
A common scenario with options of this type is that the spot price The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on available-for-sale financial assets.
As there can be no at expiry is such that neither the Group nor the counterparty chooses to exercise the option.
At 31 December 2011, guarantee that there will be a future market for securities which are generally unlisted at the time of investment the Group had $178 million 2010: $153 million of accounts receivable denominated in US dollars at that date, and or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate each investment opportunity on its merits before US dollar cash and cash equivalents, and short-term deposits of $13 million 2010: $16 million.
Thus the Groups committing the Groups funds.
The directors review holdings in such companies on a regular basis to determine currency exchange contracts and currency options at the year-end potentially exceeded its US dollar current whether continued investment is in the best interests of the Group.
Funds for such ventures are limited in order that assets.
This is because the Group has taken longer term positions through its currency exchange contracts given the financial effect of any potential decline of the value of investments will not be substantial in the context of the the predictable nature of the Groups cash flows.
The Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting, and all movements in the fair value of derivative foreign i Listed investments At 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group had no listed investments.
exchange instruments are recorded in the income statement, offsetting the foreign exchange movements on the accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents, and short-term deposits balances being hedged.
ii Unlisted investments The Group had unlisted investments including convertible loan notes with a carrying value as at 31 December 2011 of 27.3 million 2010: 20.3 million.
A permanent 10% fall in the underlying value of In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the euro.
The Group is also these companies as at 31 December 2011 would therefore have reduced the Groups post-tax profit by 1.9 million required to settle certain expenses in euros, primarily in its French and German subsidiaries, and as the net amounts 2010: 1.5 million and resulted in a 0.1 million 2010: nil reduction in other components of equity.
involved are not considered significant, the Group does not take out euro currency exchange contracts.
Credit risk As at 31 December 2011, if sterling had strengthened by 10% against foreign currencies with all other variables held Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 4.7 million lower 2010: 4.9 million lower, mainly as a result instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including of the mix of financial instruments at respective year-ends.
outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
At 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed periodically by the directors.
Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the directors and such approval is limited to financial institutions with at least an A2 rating, or UK building societies with over 1 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions where the cash holding concerned is immaterial.
At 31 December 2011 and 2010, the majority of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits were deposited with major clearing banks and building societies in the UK and US in the form of money market deposits and corporate bonds for varying periods of up to two years.
indd 114 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 115 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued 1c Financial risk management continued Currency risk Interest rate risk The Groups earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in At 31 December 2011, the Group had 442.2 million 2010: 305.1 million of interest-bearing assets.
indd 115 28 02 2012 19:16 116 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued 1c Financial risk management continued Credit risk continued Liquidity risk continued Over 99% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits were held with global Over three financial institutions with at least an A2 rating, or UK building societies with over 1 billion in assets, as at months but Between Less than less than six months 31 December 2011 2010: 97%.
three months six months and one year 000s 000s 000s The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The Group generally does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of its customers are Forward foreign exchange contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2011 large, well-established companies.
The Group has not experienced any significant losses related to individual Outflow $54,000 Inflow 34,739 customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or geographic area.
Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2011 The Group markets and sells to a relatively small number of customers with individually large value transactions.
Outflow maximum $76,500 $69,000 $61,500 At 31 December 2011, two 2010: three customers each accounted for over 10% of accounts receivable.
Inflow maximum 49,229 44,627 40,258 Monies from one of these customers have been received in full since the year-end.
The remaining customer for Forward foreign exchange contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2010 which outstanding balances are not yet due is one of the many large, established semiconductor companies that Outflow $65,000 accounted in total for over 90% of the year-end accounts receivable balance, where the risk of default on monies Inflow 41,230 owed is deemed negligible.
The Group performs credit checks on all customers other than those paying in Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2010 advance in order to assess their creditworthiness and ability to pay its invoices as they become due.
As such, the Outflow maximum $60,000 $63,000 $85,500 balance of accounts receivable not owed by the large semiconductor companies is still deemed by the directors Inflow maximum 40,238 42,034 56,155 to be of low risk of default due to the nature of the checks performed on them, and accordingly a relatively small Capital risk management allowance against these receivables is in place to cover this low risk of default.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and the directors do not expect any significant losses in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an appropriate from non-performance by these counterparties.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, short-and long-term Liquidity risk deposits and capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company, as disclosed on the consolidated The Groups policy is to maintain balances of cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits, such balance sheet.
that highly liquid resources exceed the Groups projected cash outflows at all times.
Surplus funds are placed on In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid fixedor floating-rate deposits depending on the prevailing economic climate at the time with reference to forward to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to raise cash or take on debt.
interest rates and also on the required maturity of the deposit as driven by the expected timing of the Groups cash The Groups strategy is to have a capital structure that takes into account opportunities to invest in long-term receipts and payments over the shortto medium-term.
profitable growth, prevailing trading conditions and the desire to improve balance sheet efficiency over time.
The directors monitor rolling forecasts of the Groups short and medium term expected cash flows.
This is carried out The Group introduced a dividend in 2004 which has grown each year since.
Between 2005 and 2008, an ongoing at both a local and a Group level, with the local subsidiaries being funded by the Group as required.
share buyback programme was in place whereby 16% of the issued share capital was bought back at an average The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis, into relevant maturity price of 1.22.
In 2011, the interim dividend was increased by 20% and the directors are proposing a 20% increase in groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts the final dividend, reflecting the Boards long-term confidence in the business.
No share buybacks were made in the disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their year, though the programme remains in place and will be used as and when the Board believe it is appropriate to carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
The capital structure is continually monitored by the Group.
Between Between one Fair value of currency exchange contracts Less than six months year and The fair value of currency exchange contracts is estimated using the settlement rates.
The estimation of the fair value six months and one year two years of the liability in respect of currency exchange contracts was 1,530,000 at 31 December 2011 2010: 201,000.
000 000 000 The resulting gains and losses on the movement of the fair value of currency exchange contracts is recognised At 31 December 2011: in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, as shown below: Accounts payable 8,673 Accrued and other liabilities 45,714 1,713 856 2011 2010 000 000 At 31 December 2010: Accounts payable 4,305 Gain loss in income statement 2,666 658 Accrued and other liabilities 41,789 The table on the next page analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
indd 116 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 117 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued 1c Financial risk management continued Credit risk continued Liquidity risk continued Over 99% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits were held with global Over three financial institutions with at least an A2 rating, or UK building societies with over 1 billion in assets, as at months but Between Less than less than six months 31 December 2011 2010: 97%.
indd 117 28 02 2012 19:16 118 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued 1d Critical accounting estimates and judgements Valuation hierarchy The preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards requires the The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method: directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total on historical experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 000 000 000 000 2011 reasonable under the circumstances.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related Assets actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the Fair value through the income statement: carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Embedded derivatives 1,141 1,141 1,141 1,141 Impairment of goodwill Available-for-sale: The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash Other long-term financial assets 27,281 27,281 generating units CGUs to which goodwill is allocated.
As discussed in detail in note 15, estimating the value in use 27,281 27,281 requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose a Total assets 1,141 27,281 28,422 suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of those cash flows.
The Group uses a pre-tax discount Level 1 valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
Level 2 valued using techniques based significantly on observable rate of approximately 11% 2010: 11%.
Level 3 valued using information other than observable market data.
Revenue recognition At 31 December 2011 there was a liability for currency exchange contracts of 1,530,000 2010: 201,000, which Revenue from the sale of licence agreements which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each is considered to be a level 2 valuation.
customer is recognised on a  method basis.
Use of this method requires the directors Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total to estimate the total project resource requirement and also any losses on uncompleted contracts.
000 000 000 000 2010 Provisions for income taxes Assets The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining Fair value through the income statement: the world-wide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate Embedded derivatives 2,303 2,303 tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated 2,303 2,303 tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these Available-for-sale: matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and Other long-term financial assets 20,329 20,329 deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
20,329 20,329 Total assets 2,303 20,329 22,632 Provision for impairment of available-for-sale financial assets The Group assesses available-for-sale financial assets for impairment at each reporting date.
This requires the Level 3 financial assets directors to assess whether there is any indication that any available-for-sale financial assets are impaired.
If there Other is such an indication, the Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets recoverable amount, which long-term is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and their value in use.
If the recoverable amount is less than the investments 000 carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised, and the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Balance, at 1 January 2011 20,329 Provision for impairment of trade receivables Additions 8,349 The Group assesses trade receivables for impairment which requires the directors to estimate the likelihood Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income 361 of payment forfeiture by customers.
Disposals 123 Impairment recognised through income statement 1,635 Legal settlements and other contingencies Balance, at 31 December 2011 27,281 Determining the amount to be accrued for legal settlement requires the directors to estimate the committed future legal and settlement fees the Group is expecting to incur, either where suits are filed against the Group for infringement of patents, or where the Group may be required to indemnify a licensee.
The directors assess the extent Other of any potential infringement based on legal advice and written opinions received from external counsel and then long-term investments estimate the level of accrual required.
000 Contingent consideration for an acquisition is recognised as part of the purchase consideration if the contingent Balance, at 1 January 2010 9,432 conditions are expected to be satisfied.
This requires the directors to estimate the acquirees future financial Additions 11,019 performance, typically more than one year post-acquisition.
indd 118 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 119 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued 1d Critical accounting estimates and judgements Valuation hierarchy The preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards requires the The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method: directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
indd 119 28 02 2012 19:16 120 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting 2 Segmental reporting continued At 31 December 2011 the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three main business segments: System Processor Physical IP Design Processor Division PD, encompassing those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including Division Division Division Unallocated Group specific functions such as graphics IP, fabric IP, embedded software and configurable digital signal processing IP.
000 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2010 Segmental income statement Physical IP Division PIPD, concerned with the building blocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into Revenue 315,747 54,855 35,993 406,595 actual silicon.
Operating costs 179,224 82,519 39,493 1,600 299,636 System Design Division SDD, focused on the tools and models used to create and debug software and Investment income 3,634 3,634 system-on-chip SoC designs.
Interest payable and similar charges 566 566 Profit loss before tax 136,523 27,664 3,500 4,668 110,027 This is based upon the Groups internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which Tax 24,053 24,053 the CODM is provided with financial information.
Whilst revenues are also reported into four main revenue streams Profit loss for the year 136,523 27,664 3,500 19,385 85,974 namely licensing, royalties, development systems and services, the costs, operating results and balance sheets are Reconciliation to normalised profit loss before tax: only analysed into these three divisions.
Further, the information provided to the CODM is based on normalised profit Intangible amortisation 2,181 8,413 801 11,395 before tax and therefore this information is provided as well as the equivalent profit stated under IFRS.
Share-based payment costs including payroll taxes 24,969 9,949 6,992 41,910 The reconciling items: intangible amortisation: acquisition-related charges: share-based payment costs including Restructuring 358 15 373 payroll taxes: disposal impairment of investments: restructuring: and Linaro-related charges are analysed below Linaro-related charges 4,448 4,448 in addition to an analysis of revenues: operating costs: investment income: interest payable and similar charges: Normalised profit loss before tax 167,763 9,302 4,278 4,668 167,407 profit loss before tax: tax: profit loss after tax: depreciation: capital expenditure: total assets and liabilities: net Segmental balance sheet assets and goodwill for each segment and the Group in total.
Unallocated operating costs consist of foreign exchange transactions.
Investment income 7,968 7,968 Unallocated assets and liabilities include: cash and cash equivalents: shortand long-term deposits: available-forProfit loss before tax 173,746 19,742 8,237 11,182 156,949 sale financial assets: loans and receivables: embedded derivatives: fair value of currency exchange contracts: Tax 44,307 44,307 deferred tax balances: current tax: and VAT.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and Profit loss for the year 173,746 19,742 8,237 33,125 112,642 equipment and computer software intangible assets.
Reconciliation to normalised profit loss before tax: Intangible amortisation 2,189 1,036 3,225 During the year ended 31 December 2011 one customer within all three business segments accounted for 11% Acquisition-related charges 2,450 571 157 3,178 of the Groups total revenues amounting to 53.8 million 2010: no customers were greater than 10%.
Share-based payment costs including payroll taxes 36,952 12,125 8,661 57,738 The results of each segment have been prepared using accounting policies consistent with those of the Group Disposal impairment of investments 12 1,635 125 1,748 as a whole.
indd 120 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 121 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting 2 Segmental reporting continued At 31 December 2011 the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three main business segments: System Processor Physical IP Design Processor Division PD, encompassing those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including Division Division Division Unallocated Group specific functions such as graphics IP, fabric IP, embedded software and configurable digital signal processing IP.
indd 121 28 02 2012 19:16 122 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Geographical information Geographical information continued The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in three main geographical Analysis of non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets : areas.
The UK is the home country of the parent company.
The main operations are in the following principal 2011 2010 territories: 000 000 Europe 122,936 43,134 Europe United States 6,931 7,088 United States Asia Pacific 2,989 2,808 Asia Pacific 132,856 53,030 Analysis of revenue by destination : Includes the UK which had non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets of 122.4 million in 2011 2010: 42.7 million, of which long-term deposits accounted for 83.1 million 2010: 15.0 million.
2011 2010 000 000 3 Key management compensation and directors emoluments United States 187,741 151,398 Key management compensation South Korea 63,801 48,664 The directors are of the opinion that the key management of the Group comprises the executive and non-executive Taiwan 63,562 53,258 directors of ARM Holdings plc together with the Executive Committee comprising all directors of ARM Limited and Japan 50,003 46,405 certain senior management.
These persons have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling China 47,648 35,857 the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly.
At 31 December 2011, key management comprised 22 people Germany 21,737 16,271 2010: 22.
Netherlands 15,413 14,794 Switzerland 11,664 13,316 The aggregate amounts of key management compensation are set out below: Rest of Europe 12,177 13,930 2011 2010 Rest of Asia Pacific 16,263 11,547 000 000 Rest of North America 1,817 1,155 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 9,882 8,395 491,826 406,595 Share-based payments 3,479 2,976 Destination is defined as the location of ARMs customers operations.
Post-employment benefits 409 393 13,770 11,764 The Groups revenue within the home country of the parent company amounted to 1.5 million and 3.8 million for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 respectively.
The Groups exports from the UK were 480.1 million and Directors emoluments 391.0 million for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 respectively.
The aggregate emoluments of the directors of the Company are set out below: Analysis of revenue by origin: 2011 2010 000 000 2011 2010 000 000 Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 5,526 4,632 Aggregate Group pension contributions to money purchase schemes 182 226 Europe 483,573 396,399 Aggregate gains on exercise of share options 1,096 6,178 United States 8,171 9,901 Aggregate amounts receivable under the Long Term Incentive Plan 24,195 5,133 Asia Pacific 82 295 30,999 16,169 491,826 406,595 Includes the UK which had total revenues of 481.6 million in 2011 2010: 394.8 million.
Detailed disclosures of directors emoluments are shown on page 92.
Details of directors interests in share options and awards are shown on pages 87 to 91 which form part of the financial statements.
indd 122 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 123 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Geographical information Geographical information continued The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
indd 123 28 02 2012 19:16 124 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Employee information 5 Profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year The following items have been charged credited to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax: was: 2011 2010 000 000 2011 2010 Number Number Staff costs, including share-based payments note 4 215,688 174,073 By segment Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2,760 3,308 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 14 7,468 6,119 Processor Division 1,225 1,031 Physical IP Division 488 496 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 16 5,688 13,830 System Design Division 283 272 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets note 13 1,635 1,996 1,799 Loss profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 111 37 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 252 Other operating lease rentals payable 2011 2010 Plant and machinery 24,872 21,837 Number Number Property 6,836 6,323 By activity Accounts receivables impairment including movement in provision 24 904 Research and development 1,366 1,208 Foreign exchange losses gains Sales and marketing 349 337 Embedded derivatives 1,162 177 General and administrative 281 254 Other 4,154 1,678 1,996 1,799 Services provided by the Groups auditor and its associates During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups 2011 2010 auditor and its associates: 000 000 Staff costs for the above persons 2011 2010 000 000 Wages and salaries 142,222 124,412 Restructuring costs 373 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Company Share-based payments note 22 40,457 27,129 and consolidated financial statements 261 243 Social security costs 26,188 16,288 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: Other pension costs 6,821 5,871 The audit of the Groups subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 234 230 215,688 174,073 Services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 240 240 Other services pursuant to legislation 81 81 Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services 816 794 Tax services 169 174 All other services 90 50 1,075 1,018 014617 AR11 PITSTOP.
indd 124 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 125 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Employee information 5 Profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year The following items have been charged credited to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax: was: 2011 2010 000 000 2011 2010 Number Number Staff costs, including share-based payments note 4 215,688 174,073 By segment Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2,760 3,308 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 14 7,468 6,119 Processor Division 1,225 1,031 Physical IP Division 488 496 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 16 5,688 13,830 System Design Division 283 272 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets note 13 1,635 1,996 1,799 Loss profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 111 37 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 252 Other operating lease rentals payable 2011 2010 Plant and machinery 24,872 21,837 Number Number Property 6,836 6,323 By activity Accounts receivables impairment including movement in provision 24 904 Research and development 1,366 1,208 Foreign exchange losses gains Sales and marketing 349 337 Embedded derivatives 1,162 177 General and administrative 281 254 Other 4,154 1,678 1,996 1,799 Services provided by the Groups auditor and its associates During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups 2011 2010 auditor and its associates: 000 000 Staff costs for the above persons 2011 2010 000 000 Wages and salaries 142,222 124,412 Restructuring costs 373 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Company Share-based payments note 22 40,457 27,129 and consolidated financial statements 261 243 Social security costs 26,188 16,288 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: Other pension costs 6,821 5,871 The audit of the Groups subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 234 230 215,688 174,073 Services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 240 240 Other services pursuant to legislation 81 81 Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services 816 794 Tax services 169 174 All other services 90 50 1,075 1,018 014617 AR11 PITSTOP.
indd 125 28 02 2012 19:16 126 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Tax 6 Tax continued Analysis of charge in the year: Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate relevant 2011 2010 to each tax jurisdiction.
000 000 Current tax: The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: Current tax on profits for the year 45,724 31,391 2011 2010 Adjustments in respect of prior years 121 298 000 000 Total current tax 45,603 31,689 At 1 January 78,286 42,004 Deferred tax 1,296 7,636 Income statement credit 1,296 7,636 Income tax expense 44,307 24,053 Adjustment in respect of share-based payments 23,244 29,033 Prior year movement from current tax assets 2,572 Analysis of tax on items charged to equity: Exchange differences 565 387 2011 2010 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial asset 90 000 000 At 31 December 105,873 78,286 Deferred tax credit on outstanding share options and awards 23,244 29,033 Current tax benefit on share options and awards 22,168 7,601 Deferred tax assets have been partially recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving Deferred tax charge on available-for-sale financial assets 90 rise to deferred tax assets because it is not probable that the unrecognised portion of these assets will be recovered.
The tax charge for the year was different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, as explained below: The amount of deferred tax assets unrecognised at 31 December 2011 is 1,226,000 2010: 1,425,000.
The unrecognised deferred tax asset relates to historic losses of an overseas subsidiary that may remain 2011 2010 unutilised due to restrictions imposed by local tax legislation.
000 000 Profit before tax 156,949 110,027 No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of a further 65.0 million 2010: 23.0 million of unremitted earnings Profit before tax at the corporation tax rate of 26.5% 2010: 28% 41,591 30,808 of overseas subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the differences and Effects of: either it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future or no tax is payable on the reversal.
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 121 298 The March 2011 Budget included changes to the main rates of tax for UK companies.
The main rate of corporation Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 2,947 1,203 tax decreased from 28% to 26% from 1 April 2011.
The Budget also announced the reduction in the main rate of Research and development tax credits 10,240 7,265 corporation tax from 26% to 25% from 1 April 2012.
This was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011.
In addition, the Permanent differences other 1,120 1,340 main rate of capital allowances will decrease from 20% to 18% from 1 April 2012.
These changes have not had Permanent differences recognition of US deferred tax assets 4,005 a material impact on the deferred tax balances as at 31 December 2011.
Foreign withholding tax 10,465 2,013 Amortisation of other intangible assets 80 641 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction Timing differences in respect of share-based payments 865 302 as permitted by IAS 12, Income Taxes during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are Total taxation 44,307 24,053 only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Includes expenditure disallowable for tax purposes and the impact of the change in the UK corporation tax rate.
indd 126 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 127 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Tax 6 Tax continued Analysis of charge in the year: Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate relevant 2011 2010 to each tax jurisdiction.
indd 127 28 02 2012 19:16 128 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Tax continued 7 Dividends Deferred tax assets 2011 2010 000 000 Temporary difference Final 2009 paid at 1.45 pence per share 19,022 Tax losses on availableAmounts Temporary and R&D Interim 2010 paid at 1.16 pence per share 15,301 for-sale relating to differences tax credits NonFinal 2010 paid at 1.74 pence per share 23,410 financial share-based relating to carried deductible assets Interim 2011 paid at 1.39 pence per share 18,756 payments fixed assets forward reserves Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 42,166 34,323 At 1 January 2011 45,185 13 5,868 19,872 9,605 80,543 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2011 Prior year movement from current tax assets 2,572 2,572 of 2.09 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 29 million of shareholders funds.
Subject to approval at Income statement credit charge 4,291 1,032 4,494 1,930 695 the 2012 AGM, it will be paid on 18 May 2012 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 4 May 2012.
Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and awards 9,149 9,149 8 Earnings per share Unutilised current year share option deductions 14,095 14,095 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted Reclassification 900 252 1,819 1,171 average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury stock which are treated Exchange differences 571 571 as cancelled.
At 31 December 2011 prior to offsetting 59,525 13 4,584 30,797 12,706 107,625 For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 1,752 conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Company had two categories of dilutive potential ordinary At 31 December 2011 after offsetting 105,873 shares during the year: those being share options granted to employees and directors where the exercise price is less At 1 January 2010 18,945 374 6,914 9,154 12,075 47,462 than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the awards made under the Income statement credit charge 614 361 1,046 7,621 2,470 4,358 Companys Restricted Stock Unit RSU, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and awards 25,626 25,626 schemes.
For 2011 and 2010, no shares that were allocated for awards under the LTIP were included in the diluted Unutilised current year share option deductions 3,407 3,407 EPS calculation as the performance criteria could not be measured until the conclusion of the performance period.
Exchange differences 310 310 The diluted share base for the year ended 31 December 2011 excludes incremental shares of nil 2010: 185,000 At 31 December 2010 prior to offsetting 45,185 13 5,868 19,872 9,605 80,543 related to employee share options.
These shares are excluded due to their anti-dilutive effect as a result of the Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 1,956 exercise price of these shares being higher than the market price.
At 31 December 2010 after offsetting 78,587 Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are shown on the Deferred tax liabilities face of the income statement.
Temporary 9 Cash and cash equivalents difference Amounts on available- 2011 2010 relating to for-sale 000 000 intangible financial assets arising Cash at bank and in hand 26,811 29,363 assets on acquisition Other Total 000 000 000 000 The carrying amount approximates to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments, being At 1 January 2011 1,479 778 2,257 no greater than three months.
Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 230 230 10 Accounts receivable Movement through reserves 90 90 Other short-term differences 371 371 2011 2010 Exchange differences 6 6 000 000 At 31 December 2011 prior to offsetting 1,255 90 407 1,752 Trade debtors including receivables from related parties see note 26 116,382 99,068 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 1,752 Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors 1,649 2,091 At 31 December 2011 after offsetting Trade debtors, net 114,733 96,977 At 1 January 2010 4,763 695 5,458 Amounts recoverable on contracts 4,898 8,691 Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 3,361 3,361 Current accounts receivable 119,631 105,668 Other short-term differences 83 83 Exchange differences 77 77 At 31 December 2010 prior to offsetting 1,479 778 2,257 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 1,956 At 31 December 2010 after offsetting 301 The deferred tax liability due after more than one year prior to offsetting is 989,000 2010: 1,308,000.
indd 128 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 129 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Tax continued 7 Dividends Deferred tax assets 2011 2010 000 000 Temporary difference Final 2009 paid at 1.45 pence per share 19,022 Tax losses on availableAmounts Temporary and R&D Interim 2010 paid at 1.16 pence per share 15,301 for-sale relating to differences tax credits NonFinal 2010 paid at 1.74 pence per share 23,410 financial share-based relating to carried deductible assets Interim 2011 paid at 1.39 pence per share 18,756 payments fixed assets forward reserves Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 42,166 34,323 At 1 January 2011 45,185 13 5,868 19,872 9,605 80,543 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2011 Prior year movement from current tax assets 2,572 2,572 of 2.09 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 29 million of shareholders funds.
indd 129 28 02 2012 19:16 130 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Accounts receivable continued 13 Available-for-sale financial assets continued Movements in the Groups provision for impairment of trade debtors are as follows: Other long-term 2011 2010 investments 000 000 000 At 1 January 2,091 2,395 Net book value Charge credit to income statement 24 904 At 1 January 2010 9,432 Utilised 474 543 Additions 11,019 Foreign exchange 8 57 Disposals 122 At 31 December 1,649 2,091 At 31 December 2010 20,329 See also note 18 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Groups gross trade debtors.
Other long-term investments Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are generally early-stage development enterprises, 11 Prepaid expenses and other assets which are generating value for shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not 2011 2010 currently report profits.
The fair value of these investments is considered to approximate to cost or is determined 000 000 using independent valuation information where available.
Other receivables 9,290 5,968 Investments are held in the following companies: Prepayments and accrued income 21,434 12,463 Current prepaid expenses and other assets 30,724 18,431 Amantys Limited Plus: non-current prepayments and accrued income 2,322 1,920 Ambiq Micro Inc. Total prepaid expenses and other assets 33,046 20,351 Arteris Holdings Inc. 12 Inventories Calxeda Inc. 2011 2010 000 000 Carbon Design Systems Inc.
Finished goods 2,670 2,043 Cognovo Limited Less: Provision for obsolescence of inventories 200 259 2,470 1,784 Cyclos Semiconductor Inc. 13 Available-for-sale financial assets eSol Co. Ltd Current: Ideaworks 3D Limited There were no movements in short-term marketable securities during the year ended 31 December 2011.
Nethra Imaging Inc. Short-term marketable Shanghai Walden Venture Capital Enterprise securities 000 Thunder Software Technology Co. Ltd At 1 January 2010 1,795 Triad Semiconductor Net cash redeemed in the year 1,950 Revaluation through equity 155 At 31 December 2010 Non-current: Other long-term investments 000 Net book value At 1 January 2011 20,329 Additions 8,349 Revaluation recognised through equity 361 Disposals 123 Impairment recognised through income statement general and administrative expenses 1,635 At 31 December 2011 27,281 014617 AR11 PITSTOP.
indd 130 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 131 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Accounts receivable continued 13 Available-for-sale financial assets continued Movements in the Groups provision for impairment of trade debtors are as follows: Other long-term 2011 2010 investments 000 000 000 At 1 January 2,091 2,395 Net book value Charge credit to income statement 24 904 At 1 January 2010 9,432 Utilised 474 543 Additions 11,019 Foreign exchange 8 57 Disposals 122 At 31 December 1,649 2,091 At 31 December 2010 20,329 See also note 18 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Groups gross trade debtors.
indd 131 28 02 2012 19:16 132 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Available-for-sale financial assets continued 14 Property, plant and equipment Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Fixtures, fittings and Assets in the 2011 2010 Freehold Leasehold Computer motor course of 000 000 improvements buildings equipment vehicles construction Total Unlisted equity securities UK 1,688 579 000 000 000 000 000 000 Unlisted equity securities China 1,943 174 Cost Unlisted equity securities Japan 890 890 At 1 January 2011 190 17,683 25,931 5,321 49,125 Unlisted equity securities US 8,622 5,613 Additions 586 9,961 703 924 12,174 Convertible loan notes UK 13,324 10,624 Transfers 3 3 Convertible loan notes US 814 2,449 Disposals 147 2,683 190 3,020 Total non-current financial assets 27,281 20,329 Exchange differences 120 691 131 942 At 31 December 2011 190 18,002 32,515 5,706 924 57,337 Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: Aggregate depreciation 2011 2010 At 1 January 2011 94 12,208 19,730 3,246 35,278 000 000 Charge for the year 7 1,464 5,188 809 7,468 Sterling 26,467 17,880 Transfers 1 1 US dollars 814 2,449 Disposals 147 2,671 171 2,989 Total financial assets 27,281 20,329 Exchange differences 66 439 56 561 At 31 December 2011 101 13,459 21,809 3,827 39,196 Net book value At 31 December 2011 89 4,543 10,706 1,879 924 18,141 Fixtures, fittings and Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Computer motor course of buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2010 190 20,709 21,686 5,678 48,263 Additions 324 5,161 697 6,182 Disposals 3,709 1,428 1,298 6,435 Exchange differences 359 512 244 1,115 At 31 December 2010 190 17,683 25,931 5,321 49,125 Aggregate depreciation At 1 January 2010 87 14,178 17,027 3,406 34,698 Charge for the year 7 1,537 3,770 805 6,119 Transfers 3 3 Disposals 3,613 1,431 1,191 6,235 Exchange differences 103 367 226 696 At 31 December 2010 94 12,208 19,730 3,246 35,278 Net book value At 31 December 2010 96 5,475 6,201 2,075 13,847 014617 AR11 PITSTOP.
indd 132 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 133 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Available-for-sale financial assets continued 14 Property, plant and equipment Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Fixtures, fittings and Assets in the 2011 2010 Freehold Leasehold Computer motor course of 000 000 improvements buildings equipment vehicles construction Total Unlisted equity securities UK 1,688 579 000 000 000 000 000 000 Unlisted equity securities China 1,943 174 Cost Unlisted equity securities Japan 890 890 At 1 January 2011 190 17,683 25,931 5,321 49,125 Unlisted equity securities US 8,622 5,613 Additions 586 9,961 703 924 12,174 Convertible loan notes UK 13,324 10,624 Transfers 3 3 Convertible loan notes US 814 2,449 Disposals 147 2,683 190 3,020 Total non-current financial assets 27,281 20,329 Exchange differences 120 691 131 942 At 31 December 2011 190 18,002 32,515 5,706 924 57,337 Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: Aggregate depreciation 2011 2010 At 1 January 2011 94 12,208 19,730 3,246 35,278 000 000 Charge for the year 7 1,464 5,188 809 7,468 Sterling 26,467 17,880 Transfers 1 1 US dollars 814 2,449 Disposals 147 2,671 171 2,989 Total financial assets 27,281 20,329 Exchange differences 66 439 56 561 At 31 December 2011 101 13,459 21,809 3,827 39,196 Net book value At 31 December 2011 89 4,543 10,706 1,879 924 18,141 Fixtures, fittings and Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Computer motor course of buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2010 190 20,709 21,686 5,678 48,263 Additions 324 5,161 697 6,182 Disposals 3,709 1,428 1,298 6,435 Exchange differences 359 512 244 1,115 At 31 December 2010 190 17,683 25,931 5,321 49,125 Aggregate depreciation At 1 January 2010 87 14,178 17,027 3,406 34,698 Charge for the year 7 1,537 3,770 805 6,119 Transfers 3 3 Disposals 3,613 1,431 1,191 6,235 Exchange differences 103 367 226 696 At 31 December 2010 94 12,208 19,730 3,246 35,278 Net book value At 31 December 2010 96 5,475 6,201 2,075 13,847 014617 AR11 PITSTOP.
indd 133 28 02 2012 19:16 134 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill 15 Goodwill continued Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to grow steadily over the period of the calculation.
000 Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
At 1 January 2010 516,798 Exchange differences 15,487 The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PD is appropriate and that the assumptions At 31 December 2010 532,285 used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation Acquisition - Obsidian 3,163 could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in Acquisition - Prolific 3,284 an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value.
Exchange differences 3,795 At 31 December 2011 542,527 Physical IP Division PIPD The Physical IP Division is concerned with the building blocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into actual During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Group tested its balance of goodwill for impairment in accordance with silicon.
No impairment charge was recorded as a result of this annual impairment test.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGUs according to business segment.
The carrying amounts of goodwill Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal by CGU at 31 December 2011 are summarised below: growth rate after 2021 of 3% per annum.
Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business System model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to assess the expected future cash flows to Processor Physical IP Design be generated from the assets under review.
Division Division Division Group 000 000 000 000 Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior Goodwill relating to Artisan 126,862 380,587 507,449 management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical experience in Goodwill relating to Falanx 9,400 9,400 the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
Since the acquisition of Artisan at the end of 2004, PIPD has Goodwill relating to Axys 7,836 7,836 accelerated the development of leading-edge physical IP technology.
As semiconductor process geometries Goodwill relating to KEG and KSI 7,051 7,051 shrink, PIPD is expected to have more licensing opportunities across a broader range of foundries and other Goodwill relating to Logipard 2,177 2,177 semiconductor companies.
Goodwill relating to Obsidian 3,239 3,239 Goodwill relating to Prolific 3,284 3,284 US dollar licence revenues increased by 19% year-on-year in 2011 and royalty revenues increased by 11%.
Goodwill relating to other acquisitions 2,060 31 2,091 The increase in revenues was due mainly to further success in signing licences for leading edge physical IP Goodwill at 31 December 2011 143,738 383,871 14,918 542,527 technology.
As a result, backlog increased by 23% in 2011 compared with the beginning of the year.
This uplift in Goodwill at 31 December 2010 139,560 377,767 14,958 532,285 licensing activity is expected to translate into growth in royalty revenues in future years.
The directors believe that the investment in the physical IP technology portfolio in recent years will not only generate growth in physical IP revenue The recoverable amount for each CGU has been measured based on a value in use calculation.
in future years, but also contribute significantly to the success of PD due to the synergistic benefits of the combined Allocation of goodwill relating to Artisan technologies.
Demand for Processor Optimisation Packs POPs continued to be strong in 2011 with a number of The directors believed that, in addition to forming the basis of the Physical IP Division PIPD, the Companys partners taking licences alongside PD processors.
POPs enable an enhanced and deterministic outcome for acquisition of Artisan in 2004 would provide a benefit to the Processor Division PD for the following reasons: licensees when implementing ARM processors.
The development of faster and more power-efficient microprocessors as a result of collaboration between Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to increase gradually over time to in excess of 20% by the end PD and PIPD engineering teams.
This is expected to generate more PD licensing deals at higher prices: and of the forecast period.
In 2011, PIPD made a small loss on a normalised basis, mostly as a result of the continued level of investment in the development of leading-edge technology in advance of the revenues from both licensing and The potential for PD to win more microprocessor licensing business as a result of ARM being able to offer both royalties being received.
Margins are expected to improve significantly in future years as licence revenues from processor and physical IP in-house.
Growth in high margin royalty revenues will further improve profitability.
The goodwill relating to Artisan was allocated between the two divisions accordingly.
Costs are expected to grow relatively slowly in real terms.
Processor Division PD This timescale is consistent with ARMs experience in developing the processor licensing and royalty model.
ARM has The Processor Division encompasses those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including signed around 850 processor licences with more than 290 customers over the last 20 years with less than half of these specific functions such as graphics IP, fabric IP, embedded software IP and configurable digital signal processing paying royalties thus far.
As royalty revenues are a function of cumulative licensing, royalty growth gathers DSP IP.
momentum as the licensing base grows ARM processor royalties have increased from $38 million in 2002 to $357 million in 2011.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations were: Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2021 of 3% per annum.
Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to assess the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
indd 134 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 135 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill 15 Goodwill continued Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to grow steadily over the period of the calculation.
indd 135 28 02 2012 19:16 136 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill continued 16 Other intangible assets Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
The directors are confident Existing that the amount of goodwill allocated to PIPD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
In-process agreements Trademarks Computer Patents and research and Developed and customer Core and Order Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors believe that no software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames backlog Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value.
The overall assessment is most sensitive to changes in the Cost assumed revenues and benefits provided to the Processor Division.
The directors have considered the impact of a At 1 January 2011 9,795 25,430 6,188 38,827 55,049 14,753 4,632 2,044 156,718 Additions 831 831 number of scenarios on the overall valuation of the PIPD business.
The results of this sensitivity analysis showed that Acquisition of subsidiary 2,252 193 2,626 19 5,090 applying a range of reasonable variations to the key assumptions would not change the conclusion that no Disposals 154 154 impairment in the carrying value of the goodwill is required at 31 December 2011.
Exchange differences 73 45 56 217 226 35 15 409 System Design Division SDD At 31 December 2011 10,399 25,430 6,233 41,023 55,459 17,605 4,686 2,059 162,894 The System Design Division develops and sells the tools and models used to create and debug software and systemAggregate amortisation on-chip SoC designs.
At 1 January 2011 8,449 18,751 6,188 35,868 53,934 14,753 4,632 2,044 144,619 Charge for the year 817 2,102 1,920 398 448 3 5,688 The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: Disposals 154 154 Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a five-year forecast period with an assumed terminal Exchange differences 58 45 72 213 119 35 15 297 growth rate after 2016 of 3% per annum.
It is considered appropriate to use a five-year forecast period to properly At 31 December 2011 9,054 20,853 6,233 37,716 54,545 15,320 4,670 2,059 150,450 reflect the weighted average period over which the benefits of the acquisitions of Axys, KEG and KSI are expected Net book value to accrue.
At 31 December 2011 1,345 4,577 3,307 914 2,285 16 12,444 Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical experience Existing in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
In-process Trademarks agreements Computer Patents and research and Developed and customer Core and Order Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to be around 10% during the period.
software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames backlog Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
Cost At 1 January 2010 9,587 25,430 6,007 38,465 53,825 14,304 4,491 1,982 154,091 The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to SDD and the assumptions used in estimating Additions 1,173 1,173 its fair value are appropriate.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the Disposals 1,064 1,064 directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of Exchange differences 99 181 362 1,224 449 141 62 2,518 goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value.
indd 136 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 137 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill continued 16 Other intangible assets Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
indd 137 28 02 2012 19:16 138 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Financial instruments 18 Financial instruments a Financial instruments by category a Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Long-term deposits The effective interest rate on long-term deposits outstanding at the year-end was 3.18% 2010: 2.53% and these deposits have an average maturity of 532 days 2010: 543 days.
Financial assets b Credit quality of financial assets Assets at fair Trade debtors value through Loans and the income AvailableOn a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on a line-byreceivables statement for-sale Total line basis.
Either a provision is made or the lack thereof is justified, with review by senior members of the Groups 000 000 000 000 finance team.
At 31 December 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 26,811 26,811 2011 2010 000 000 Short-term deposits 319,080 319,080 Trade debtors gross of impairment provision : Embedded derivatives 1,141 1,141 Not yet due 89,522 66,012 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 121,280 121,280 Under 90 days overdue 21,071 27,260 Total current financial assets 467,171 1,141 468,312 Over 90 days overdue but not provided for 4,140 3,705 Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 27,281 27,281 Fully provided for 1,649 2,091 Long-term deposits 83,094 83,094 Total 116,382 99,068 Loans and receivables 2,018 2,018 Total non-current financial assets 85,112 27,281 112,393 As shown above, at 31 December 2011 trade debtors less than 90 days overdue amounted to 21.1 million.
Of those Total financial assets 552,283 1,141 27,281 580,705 outstanding at 31 December 2011, 10.7 million had been collected by 27 February 2012 and 9.4 million were At 31 December 2010 owed by large, established customers.
Similarly, debtors more than 90 days overdue and not provided for Cash and cash equivalents 29,363 29,363 amounted to 4.1 million of which 2.9 million had been collected by 27 February 2012 and 1.0 million was owed Short-term deposits 247,466 247,466 by large, established customers.
For the remainder, discussions regarding repayment are ongoing and repayment Embedded derivatives 2,303 2,303 schedules have been agreed with the customers concerned.
These will be monitored on a quarterly basis in Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 107,759 107,759 accordance with the control outlined above.
No further analysis has been provided here on the quality of these Total current financial assets 384,588 2,303 386,891 debts as they are not felt to pose a material threat to the Groups future results.
Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 20,329 20,329 Long-term deposits 15,000 15,000 As shown above, at 31 December 2011, trade debtors fully provided for amounted to 1.6 million 2010: 2.1 million.
Loans and receivables 1,934 1,934 Of those provided for at 31 December 2011, 0.2 million relates to trade debtors that are up to six months overdue Total non-current financial assets 16,934 20,329 37,263 2010: nil and 1.4 million relates to trade debtors that are over six months overdue 2010: 2.1 million.
Total financial assets 401,522 2,303 20,329 424,154 Highly liquid financial assets Financial liabilities As at 31 December 2011, 99% 2010: 97% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits were held with institutions that had either an A2 rating or, in the case of UK building societies, had over 2011 2010 1 billion in assets.
000 000 Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December: Accounts payable 8,673 4,305 Accrued and other liabilities 48,283 41,789 56,956 46,094 Liabilities at fair value through the income statement at 31 December: Currency exchange contracts 1,530 201 Total financial liabilities 58,486 46,295 Loans and receivables During 2010 the Group invested 2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business.
This was recognised in loans and receivables at its initial fair value of 1,934,000 as at 31 December 2010, measured using the effective interest method, which resulted in a charge of 566,000 being recognised as interest payable and similar charges during 2010.
The carrying value of this investment amounted to 2,018,000 as at 31 December 2011, with 84,000 being recognised as interest receivable during 2011.
Short-term deposits The effective interest rate on short-term deposits outstanding at the year-end was 2.44% 2010: 1.78% and these deposits have an average maturity of 197 days 2010: 159 days.
indd 138 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 139 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Financial instruments 18 Financial instruments a Financial instruments by category a Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Long-term deposits The effective interest rate on long-term deposits outstanding at the year-end was 3.18% 2010: 2.53% and these deposits have an average maturity of 532 days 2010: 543 days.
indd 139 28 02 2012 19:16 140 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Share capital 21 Acquisitions continued The following table summarises the consideration and fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as 2011 2010 at 15 June 2011.
000 000 Authorised 000 $000 2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2010: 2,200,000,000 1,100 1,100 Cash and cash equivalents 17 27 Accounts receivable 496 805 2011 2010 Other current assets 49 80 Number of Number of Property, plant and equipment 35 57 shares Value shares Value Intangible assets 2,716 4,408 000 000 000 000 Deferred revenue 388 630 Issued and fully paid Accrued and other liabilities 2,628 4,265 At 1 January 1,344,056 672 1,344,056 672 Net assets acquired 297 482 Allotted under employee incentive schemes 7,260 4 Goodwill 3,163 5,133 At 31 December 1,351,316 676 1,344,056 672 Consideration 3,460 5,615 During 2011, the aggregate consideration received on issue of new share capital allotted under employee incentive The consideration was all paid in cash.
All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have been charged to the schemes was 6,596,000 2010: nil.
income statement within general and administrative expenses.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2011, 20 Own shares held the acquisition contributed $0.8 million in revenue and incurred a loss of $0.3 million.
If Obsidian had been consolidated from 1 January 2011, the consolidated income statement would have included an additional Treasury stock $1.0m of revenue and $nil impact on profit.
000 Prolific Inc At 1 January 2011 22,059 On 31 October 2011, the Group purchased the entire share capital of Prolific Inc. for $7.7 million in cash, plus a further Issuance of shares 22,059 $8.5m payable as an earn-out to the shareholders subject to them remaining in employment with ARM for up to five At 31 December 2011 years and meeting certain performance criteria.
This will be expensed in the income statement, within research and At 1 January 2010 65,102 development expenses, as the services are provided.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
Issuance of shares 43,043 At 31 December 2010 22,059 Prolific, a company based in Newark California, develops leading-edge IC design optimisation software tools that significantly reduce development time and improve the performance of cell-based designs.
The increasing No shares were repurchased during 2011 and 2010. complexity of 20nm and below process technologies is driving the need for automated layout optimisation solutions.
At 31 December 2010, a total of 21.6 million shares were held as treasury stock.
At 31 December 2010, own shares This acquisition augments ARM's strategy to provide innovative physical IP products that will enable the ARM held had a nominal value of 0.05 pence and in total represented 1.6% of called-up share capital.
There were no partnership to continue to lead in the implementation of highly integrated, low-power SoC solutions.
shares held as treasury stock at 31 December 2011.
For these reasons, combined with the ability to hire the entire engineering workforce of Prolific, including the founders 21 Acquisitions and the management team, the Group paid a premium for the company giving rise to goodwill.
All intangible Obsidian Software Inc assets were recognised at their fair values, with the residual excess over net assets being recognised as goodwill.
On 15 June 2011, the Group purchased the entire share capital of Obsidian Software Inc. for $5.6 million in cash, plus All of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
a further $9.5 million payable as an earn-out to the shareholders subject to them remaining in employment with ARM The following table summarises the consideration and fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed for up to 3 years and meeting certain performance criteria.
This will be expensed in the income statement, within as at 31 October 2011. research and development expenses, as the services are provided.
000 $000 Obsidian, a company based in Austin Texas, is a market leader in verification and validation products and services Cash and cash equivalents 6 10 used in the design of increasingly complex processors.
The companys RAVEN software has been used by many of Accounts receivable and other current assets 10 16 the worlds leading semiconductor companies.
As system-on-chip SoC and processors grow in complexity there is Property, plant and equipment 3 5 an increasing need to develop more sophisticated verification strategies.
This acquisition augments ARM's drive in Intangible assets 2,374 3,690 matching its verification strategies with the rate of change in its high performance, complex SoC IP components.
Deferred revenue 195 304 For these reasons, combined with the ability to hire the entire workforce of Obsidian including the founders and Accrued and other liabilities 504 783 management team, the Group paid a premium for the company giving rise to goodwill.
All intangible assets were Net assets acquired 1,694 2,634 recognised at their fair values, with the residual excess over net assets being recognised as goodwill.
All of the Goodwill 3,284 5,103 goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
indd 140 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 141 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Share capital 21 Acquisitions continued The following table summarises the consideration and fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as 2011 2010 at 15 June 2011.
indd 141 28 02 2012 19:16 142 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Acquisitions continued 22 Share-based payments continued The consideration was all paid in cash.
All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have been charged to the The Company also offers savings-related share option schemes SAYE for all non-US employees and executive income statement within general and administrative expenses.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2011, directors of the Group.
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
the acquisition contributed $0.1 million in revenue and incurred a loss of $0.1 million.
If Prolific had been consolidated The period of savings is three or five years.
The option price for grants made since 2007 was set at 80% of the market from 1 January 2011, the consolidated income statement would have included $3.1 million of revenue and share price prior to the announcement of the grant, but in previous years was set at 85%, and the right to exercise $1.5 million of pre-tax profit.
normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been completed.
In 2007, the Company commenced a new savings-related option scheme for US employees, namely the Employee Share Purchase Plan There were no acquisitions in 2010.
The period of Other savings is six months, with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning During 2011, the Group made a payment of 0.5 million in respect of final consideration for the acquisition of and end of the scheme.
This settlement was in respect of a previously accrued liability and therefore had no impact The main RSU awards to employees in all jurisdictions other than France vest similarly to the unapproved scheme on the income statement for the current year.
above, namely 25% on each anniversary over four years.
RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two 22 Share-based payments years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
The Group has several share schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted to employees and Additionally, the Company operates a Deferred Annual Bonus plan DAB.
Under the DAB, which is for directors and directors.
The different schemes are described below, but all options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal selected senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant, except for those options within the SAYE and into shares on a compulsory basis.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a matching award will be ESPP schemes as detailed below.
Furthermore, from 2006, the Company has issued Restricted Stock Units RSUs to made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
The Company also employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
operates the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share Whilst the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward, the majority of awards to awards are made and vest depending on the Companys TSR performance compared to two comparator groups employees will be in RSUs.
over the three year performance period.
Under the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Company As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses arising from these share-based compensation schemes of 40.5 million may grant options to employees meeting certain eligibility requirements.
Options under the Executive Scheme 2010: 27.1 million were charged to the income statement in the year.
This is in line with the Groups policies for are exercisable between three and ten years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these remuneration schemes as outlined in note 1.
Under the Companys Unapproved Scheme the Unapproved Scheme, for which it has not sought approval from The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, the UK tax authorities, options are exercisable one to seven years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
except for the ESPP whose fair value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest.
The following assumptions The Company also operates the US ISO Scheme, which is substantially the same as the Unapproved Scheme, the for each option grant during 2011 and 2010 were as follows: main difference being that the options are exercisable one to five years after their issue.
Under both of these schemes options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, Grant date 16 Feb 2011 23 Jun 2011 16 Aug 2011 16 Feb 2010 25 Jun 2010 16 Aug 2010 Scheme ESPP SAYE ESPP ESPP SAYE ESPP 75% maximum on third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
Various options to directors under the Share price at grant date 6.225 5.68 5.26 1.949 2.847 3.08 Unapproved Scheme have certain performance criteria attached, which if met are exercisable after three years, Exercise price 2.62 4.464 4.471 1.0387 1.948 1.6567 otherwise they will become exercisable after seven years.
Number of employees 294 423 319 287 232 291 There is a further scheme for our French employees the French Scheme.
In the French Scheme, options are Shares under option 451,423 552,903 279,806 1,024,154 609,763 651,371 exercisable between four and seven years after their issue.
Vesting period years 3-5 35 Expected volatility 42%-43% 40%-45% Upon the acquisition of Artisan in 2004, the Company assumed the share schemes of Artisan existing at acquisition.
Expected life years 3-5 35 The schemes remained substantially the same as prior to the acquisition, other than the options became options Risk free rate 0.5% 0.5% to purchase shares in ARM Holdings plc instead of Artisan Components Inc.
The number and value of options were Dividend yield 0.51% 0.85% amended in line with the conversion ratio as detailed in the merger agreement.
Under each plan, there are multiple vesting templates and vesting periods.
The majority of the options were already vested upon acquisition, and the most common template was 25% vesting after one year, and then 6.25% vesting each quarter thereafter, until 100% vest after four years.
Some options vest on a monthly basis, and some vest over five years.
All options lapse ten years from the date of grant.. 014617 AR11 PITSTOP.
indd 142 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 143 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Acquisitions continued 22 Share-based payments continued The consideration was all paid in cash.
indd 143 28 02 2012 19:16 144 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Share-based payments continued 22 Share-based payments continued The fair value of RSUs, LTIP and DAB awards granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes Grant date 8 Feb 2010 8 Feb 2010 8 Feb 2010 8 Feb 2010 8 May 2010 Scheme DAB RSU French RSU LTIP RSU option pricing model.
As all are share awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have an Share price at grant date 2.05 2.05 2.05 2.05 2.305 exercise price of 0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes model.
The expected life is the expected period to exercise.
Dividend yield 0.49% 0.60% 0.60% 0.49% 0.49% A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the year to 31 December 2011 is shown below.
Fair value per option 5.835-5.892 5.136-5.229 5.136-5.198 6.221-6.314 6.221-6.283 Share awards do not have an exercise price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of awards, with no corresponding weighted average exercise prices.
indd 144 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 145 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Share-based payments continued 22 Share-based payments continued The fair value of RSUs, LTIP and DAB awards granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes Grant date 8 Feb 2010 8 Feb 2010 8 Feb 2010 8 Feb 2010 8 May 2010 Scheme DAB RSU French RSU LTIP RSU option pricing model.
indd 145 28 02 2012 19:16 146 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Share-based payments continued 23 Capital and other financial commitments The weighted average share price at the date of exercise or vest of the above share options and awards was 5.90 2011 2010 2010: 2.34.
The following options over ordinary shares were in existence at 31 December: 000 000 Capital expenditure commitments 4,913 694 2011 Other financial commitments expenditure on investments 500 3,044 Weighted Weighted Weighted Total contracts placed for future capital and other financial expenditure not provided for in the financial average average average statements 5,413 3,738 exercise remaining remaining Number price life life 24 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments outstanding Expected Contractual Exercise price At 31 December 2011, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: Outstanding options: 0.27 0.4375 129,632 0.35 0.44 0.88 2011 2010 0.47 0.854 4,020,157 0.69 1.16 1.89 Land and Land and 1.005 1.055 561,523 1.05 0.27 0.53 Other Total Other Total buildings buildings 000 000 000 000 000 000 1.104 1.25 84,308 1.18 1.12 1.49 The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non- 1.325 4.46 1,785,818 2.52 1.87 2.23 cancellable operating leases are as follows: Total 6,581,438 1.22 1.26 1.84 Within one year 6,145 19,667 25,812 6,176 14,042 20,218 Later than one year and less than five years 15,519 37,061 52,580 16,932 2,187 19,119 Outstanding RSU LTIP DAB awards: After five years 5,365 5,365 7,185 7,185 0.00 RSUs 23,735,397 1.09 1.09 At 31 December 27,029 56,728 83,757 30,293 16,229 46,522 0.00 LTIP 8,327,095 0.62 0.62 0.00 DAB 3,152,570 0.83 0.83 The Group leases office buildings and EDA tools software under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
Total 35,215,062 0.95 0.95 The lease terms are between two and twelve years, and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
2010 25 Financial contingencies Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss suffered by exercise remaining remaining the licensee in the event that the technology licensed is held to infringe the intellectual property of a third party.
Number price life life outstanding Expected Contractual Consistent with such practice, the Group provides such indemnification to its licensees but subject, in all cases, to a Exercise price limitation of liability.
The obligation for the Group to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and is usually Outstanding options: contingent upon a third party bringing an action against the licensee alleging that the technology licensed by the 0.22 0.4375 1,604,754 0.30 0.56 1.11 Group to the licensee infringes such third partys intellectual property rights.
The indemnification obligations typically 0.47 0.9475 7,417,573 0.71 1.36 2.27 1.005 1.055 1,730,025 1.05 0.67 1.32 survive any termination of the licence and will continue in perpetuity.
1.0575 1.25 461,049 1.20 0.74 1.37 The Group does not provide for any such indemnities unless it has received notification from the other party that 1.325 3.75 2,239,459 1.79 1.45 2.15 they are likely to invoke the indemnity.
A provision is made if both of the following conditions are met: i information Total 13,452,860 0.90 1.17 1.96 available prior to the issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements: and ii the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
Outstanding RSU LTIP DAB awards: Any such provision is based upon the directors estimate of the fair value of expected costs of any such claim.
0.00 RSUs 27,690,117 1.25 1.25 0.00 LTIP 11,474,982 0.96 0.96 At present, the Group is not a party in any legal proceedings in which the directors believe that it is probable 0.00 DAB 3,304,427 1.16 1.16 that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group.
Currently, there are legal Total 42,469,526 1.17 1.17 proceedings against some of the Groups licensees in which it is asserted that certain of the Groups technology infringes third party patents, but in each of those proceedings the Group either presently has no obligation to indemnify, because certain preconditions to indemnification have not been satisfied by such licensees, or to the extent that there is any present obligation to indemnify, the Group does not believe that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group.
It is possible that, in future, preconditions to indemnification may be satisfied and that in certain circumstances an indemnification obligation may arise which could result in a material liability for the Group.
indd 146 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 147 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Share-based payments continued 23 Capital and other financial commitments The weighted average share price at the date of exercise or vest of the above share options and awards was 5.90 2011 2010 2010: 2.34.
indd 147 28 02 2012 19:16 148 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued Company balance sheet UK GAAP 26 Related party transactions 2011 2010 Note 000 000 As at 31 December During the year, the Group was invoiced 4,150,000 2010: 3,190,000 in subscription fees by its associated Fixed assets company, Linaro Limited Linaro.
Investments 4 593,430 590,815 In addition the Group provided consulting and other services to Linaro amounting to 1,608,000 2010: 1,050,000.
Current assets All fees have been charged in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
Further information relating to Linaro is disclosed in note 28.
Cash at bank and in hand 141 929 There were no other related party transactions during 2011 which require disclosure.
32,909 29,712 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 471 432 Key management compensation is disclosed in note 3.
Net current assets 32,438 29,280 27 Post-balance sheet events Total assets less current liabilities 625,868 620,095 After the year-end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2011 of 2.09 pence per share.
Net assets 625,868 620,095 Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 18 May 2012 to shareholders on the register on Capital and reserves 4 May 2012.
The final dividend has not been recognised as a distribution during the year ended 31 December 2011.
Called-up share capital 7 676 672 Share premium account 8 6,592 28 Principal subsidiaries and associates Option reserve 8 61,474 61,474 Details of principal subsidiary undertakings are shown below.
Not all subsidiaries are included as the list would be Profit and loss reserve 8 557,126 557,949 excessive in length.
A full list is filed in the Groups Annual Return.
All investments are indirectly held unless otherwise Total shareholders funds 9 625,868 620,095 shown.
Proportion of The financial statements on pages 149 to 155 were approved by the Board of directors on 27 February 2012 and total nominal were signed on its behalf by: value of issued Name of undertaking Country of registration Principal activity shares held ARM Limited England and Wales Marketing, and research and development of RISC-based 100 microprocessors and physical IP ARM Inc.
US Marketing, and research and development of RISC-based 100 microprocessors and physical IP Doug Dunn, ARM KK Japan Marketing of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP 100 Chairman ARM Korea Limited South Korea Marketing of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP 100 ARM France SAS France Marketing and development of RISC-based microprocessors 100 and physical IP ARM Norway AS Norway Development of graphics IP 100 ARM Sweden AB Sweden Development of graphics IP 100 ARM Germany GmbH Germany Marketing of RISC-based microprocessor IP.
Marketing, and 100 research and development of microcontroller tools ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
India Marketing, and research and development of RISC-based 100 Limited microprocessors and physical IP ARM Taiwan Limited Taiwan Marketing, and research and development of RISC-based 100 microprocessors and physical IP ARM Consulting Shanghai Co. PR China Marketing, and research and development of RISC-based 100 Limited microprocessors and physical IP The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited.
Both ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group.
During 2010, the Group became a founder member of Linaro, a not for profit company created to foster innovation in the Linux community.
Linaro is a company limited by guarantee and as such has no shareholders.
The Group controls only 25% of the board and therefore considers Linaro to be an associate rather than a subsidiary.
Linaro made no profit or loss and had nil net assets as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
indd 148 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 149 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements continued Company balance sheet UK GAAP 26 Related party transactions 2011 2010 Note 000 000 As at 31 December During the year, the Group was invoiced 4,150,000 2010: 3,190,000 in subscription fees by its associated Fixed assets company, Linaro Limited Linaro.
indd 149 28 02 2012 19:16 150 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 1 Principal accounting policies 2 Profit for the financial year The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent companys profit and loss account has not Accounting Standards in the UK.
A summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been been included in these financial statements.
The parent companys loss after taxation, including dividends consistently applied and reviewed by the board of directors in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard receivable and before dividends payable was 1,031,000 2010: 888,000.
The Company has no employees: FRS 18, Accounting policies, is set out below: all six executive directors have contracts of service with ARM Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
All emoluments of these directors are paid by ARM Limited and are disclosed in the remuneration report within these financial Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, statements.
Audit fees are disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements on page 125. as modified for fair value in relation to share-based payments.
3 Dividends paid and proposed Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are initially recorded at cost.
Where an acquisition satisfies 2011 2010 the provisions of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 for merger relief, the investment is stated at the nominal 000 000 value of shares issued plus the fair value of any other consideration.
Final dividend paid of 1.74 pence per ordinary share in respect of 2010 2010: 1.45 pence in respect of 2009 23,410 19,022 Interim dividend paid of 1.39 pence 2010: 1.16 pence per ordinary share 18,756 15,301 Cash flow statement The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 Revised 1996 Cash flow 42,166 34,323 statements which provides that where a company is a member of a group and a consolidated cash flow statement is published, the company does not have to prepare a cash flow statement.
In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2011 of Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at actual rates 2.09 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 29 million of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 18 May 2012 of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies to shareholders who are on the register of members on 4 May 2012, subject to approval by the shareholders at the have been translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences have been included in 2012 AGM.
4 Investments Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was 593,430,000 at enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The Company took advantage of merger relief in 2004 and did not record the premium on the issue of shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. now ARM Inc. Financial instruments The Company does not have any financial instruments, other than intercompany payables and thus did not record the premium within the value of the investment in the Company balance sheet at that time.
Due to the short-term nature of these balances, the Company considers the fair value of these items to equal the carrying value.
Because the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements Investments in subsidiary of the ARM Holdings plc group which are publicly available, and the financial disclosures required by FRS 29 are in undertakings those financial statements, no disclosure has been presented in these financial statements.
000 Cost and net book value Share schemes The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments, including an LTIP, to certain employees At 1 January 2011 590,815 of subsidiary undertakings.
In accordance with FRS 20, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 40,457 value at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The fair value Recharge to subsidiary of share-based payments 37,842 determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed in the accounts of the At 31 December 2011 593,430 subsidiary companies on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Where options and awards over the Companys shares have been issued to the employees of subsidiary undertakings, the fair value of employee services performed equal to the share-based payments has been The Company operates Save As You Earn SAYE schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP recorded as a capital contribution.
In 2011, the Company recharged the relevant amount of the share-based in the US.
Options under the SAYE scheme granted since 2007 were at a 20% discount to market price of the payments to its US subsidiary.
Consequently, the amount recharged has been offset against the carrying value underlying shares on the date of announcement of the scheme, whereas all prior years schemes were at a 15% of its investments.
The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the Inland Revenue, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
Interests in Group undertakings Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows: The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available, and has applied the provisions of FRS 20 only to those options granted after 7 November 2002 and which were outstanding at 31 December 2004.
The Company Proportion of does not have any employees and as such, in accordance with UITF 44, all share-based payments have been nominal value Country Description of issued recorded as capital contributions to all subsidiaries.
In 2011, the Company recharged the relevant amount of the of registration of shares held shares held Name of undertaking share-based payments to its US subsidiary.
Consequently, the amount recharged has been offset against the ARM Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares less than 0.01% carrying value of its investments.
ARM Finance UK Limited England and Wales Ordinary $1 shares 100% Treasury shares The Company has a share buyback programme under which the Company is able to purchase its The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors own shares and hold them as treasury shares.
The treasury shares in place as at 31 December 2010 were fully utilised and physical IP.
The remaining shares in ARM Limited were held at the balance sheet date by ARM Finance UK during 2011 to satisfy employee share option exercises and other share awards.
In accordance with FRS 25, the Limited AFL and ARM Finance UK Three Limited AFL3 with AFL3 itself being an indirect wholly owned subsidiary Company recognises these shares at cost as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
The principal activities of both AFL and AFL3 are as intermediate holding companies.
indd 150 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 151 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 1 Principal accounting policies 2 Profit for the financial year The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent companys profit and loss account has not Accounting Standards in the UK.
indd 151 28 02 2012 19:16 152 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 5 Debtors 7 Called-up share capital continued 2011 2010 Weighted 000 000 average Range of exercise Amounts owed by Group undertakings 32,343 28,760 Number exercise prices price Latest date Prepayments and accrued income 81 23 Year of grant of options of exercise Deferred tax assets 344 2003 Plan 2003 779,705 0.470.65 0.497 22 October 2013 32,768 28,783 2004 1,314,399 0.551.01 0.698 29 November 2014 2,094,104 0.6235 A deferred tax asset in respect of temporary differences arising on losses has been recognised, and it is expected that profits will be available in the future to offset these losses.
indd 152 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 153 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 5 Debtors 7 Called-up share capital continued 2011 2010 Weighted 000 000 average Range of exercise Amounts owed by Group undertakings 32,343 28,760 Number exercise prices price Latest date Prepayments and accrued income 81 23 Year of grant of options of exercise Deferred tax assets 344 2003 Plan 2003 779,705 0.470.65 0.497 22 October 2013 32,768 28,783 2004 1,314,399 0.551.01 0.698 29 November 2014 2,094,104 0.6235 A deferred tax asset in respect of temporary differences arising on losses has been recognised, and it is expected that profits will be available in the future to offset these losses.
indd 153 28 02 2012 19:16 154 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 7 Called-up share capital continued 8 Reserves Under the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Company Share may grant options to directors and employees meeting certain eligibility requirements.
Options under the Executive premium Share option Profit and account Scheme are exercisable between three and ten years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
reserve loss reserve 000 000 000 Under the Companys Unapproved Scheme the Unapproved Scheme, for which it has not sought approval from At 1 January 2011 61,474 557,949 the UK tax authorities, options are exercisable one to seven years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
Premium on issue of share options 6,592 The Company also operates the US ISO Scheme, which is substantially the same as the Unapproved Scheme, the Proceeds on issue of treasury shares on exercise of share options 1,917 main difference being that the options are exercisable one to five years after their issue.
Under both of these Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments 40,457 schemes options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, Loss attributable to shareholders 1,031 75% maximum on third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
Various options to directors under the Equity dividends payable 42,166 Unapproved Scheme have certain performance criteria attached which, if met, are exercisable after three years: At 31 December 2011 6,592 61,474 557,126 otherwise they will become exercisable after seven years.
The share option reserve represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc.
There is a further scheme for our French employees the French Scheme.
In the French Scheme, options are in 2004. exercisable between four and seven years after their issue.
The Company considers the share option reserve and share premium account as non-distributable.
Within the profit Upon the acquisition of Artisan in 2004, the Company assumed the share schemes of Artisan existing at acquisition.
and loss reserve is 168,811,000 of credits in respect of FRS 20 employee share-based payments in respect of services The schemes remained substantially the same as prior to the acquisition, other than the options became options performed by employees of subsidiary undertakings and recorded as a capital contribution.
The Company also to purchase shares in ARM Holdings plc instead of Artisan Components Inc.
The number and value of options were considers these credits as non-distributable.
As such, 388,315,000 of the profit and loss reserve is deemed amended in line with the conversion ratio as detailed in the merger agreement.
The schemes assumed were the distributable.
1993 Plan, the 2000 Plan, the 2003 Plan and the ND00 Plan.
The Company did not undertake any share buy-backs during 2011.
The quantum and frequency of share Under each plan, there are multiple vesting templates and vesting periods.
The majority of the options were already repurchases is not predetermined and will take into account prevailing market conditions, the shortto medium-term vested upon acquisition, and the most common template was 25% vesting after one year, and then 6.25% vesting cash needs of the business and the level of employee share-based remuneration going forward.
At 31 December each quarter thereafter, until 100% vest after four years.
Some options vest on a monthly basis, and some vest over 2011, there were nil 2010: 21,624,158 shares in the Company still held from these purchases with a market value of five years.
All options lapse ten years from the date of grant.
The Company also operates savings-related share option schemes SAYE for all employees and executive directors Offset within retained earnings is an amount of nil 2010: 22,059,000 representing the cost of own shares held, of the Group, except for ARM Inc.
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the being nil 2010: 21,624,158 shares in the Company.
These shares were used for the benefit of the Groups employees employee.
The period of savings is either three or five years.
The option price for grants made between 2007 and and directors to satisfy share options, restricted stock units RSUs and conditional share awards.
2010 was set at 80% of the market share price prior to the announcement of the scheme, but in previous years was 9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds set at 85%, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been completed.
In 2007, the Company commenced a new savings-related option scheme for employees of ARM Inc. 2011 2010 namely the Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP.
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings 000 000 made by the employee.
The period of savings is six months, with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the Loss attributable to shareholders 1,031 888 market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
Equity dividends payable 42,166 34,323 43,197 35,211 The Company also issues restricted stock units RSUs to employees which are actual share awards on vesting rather Proceeds on issue of treasury shares on exercise of share options 1,917 24,015 than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
The main RSU awards to employees in all jurisdictions other than New share capital issued 6,596 France vest similarly to the unapproved scheme above, namely 25% on each anniversary over four years.
Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments 40,457 27,129 RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
Net addition to shareholders funds 5,773 15,933 Whilst the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward, the majority of awards to Opening shareholders funds 620,095 604,162 employees will be in RSUs.
Closing shareholders funds 625,868 620,095 Additionally, the Company operates a Deferred Annual Bonus plan DAB.
Under the DAB, which is for directors and 10 Capital commitments selected senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2011 and 2010. into shares on a compulsory basis.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a further matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
The Company also 11 Financial commitments and contingencies operates the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share At 31 December 2011 and 2010 the Company had no annual commitments under non-cancellable operating awards are made and vest depending on the Companys TSR performance compared to two comparator groups leases.
12 Related party transactions For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair value assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosure available to parent companies under FRS 8, option balances and related items, please refer to note 22 in the consolidated financial statements.
Related party disclosures, where transactions and balances between Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation.
indd 154 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 155 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 7 Called-up share capital continued 8 Reserves Under the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Company Share may grant options to directors and employees meeting certain eligibility requirements.
