Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General Formation of the Polymetal International plc Group Polymetal International plc the Company was incorporated on 29 July 2010 as a public limited company under Companies Jersey Law 1991.
On 2 November 2011, the Company was admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and commenced trading on the London Stock Exchanges premium listed market.
The Company is the new ultimate parent company of Joint Stock Company Polymetal JSC Polymetal and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates the JSC Polymetal Group and owns 83.26% of the issued share capital of JSC Polymetal as at 31 December 2011, with 8.11% held by third parties and 8.63% effectively held as treasury shares see Note 31.
On 30 September 2011, PMTL Holding Limited PMTL, the Companys wholly-owned subsidiary, made an offer known as the Institutional Share Swap Facility or the ISSF to certain institutional shareholders of JSC Polymetal to acquire their JSC Polymetal shares and JSC Polymetal GDRs.
The ISSF terms provided for the issue of new shares in the Company in exchange for JSC Polymetal shares or GDRs on a one for one basis.
The completion of the ISSF was conditional on the IPO such that 2 November 2011 was the date on which Polymetal International plc, via PMTL, acquired control of the JSC Polymetal Group and the enlarged Group the Group was formed.
Polymetal International issued new shares to those investors participating in the ISSF and who tendered these shares to PMTL.
Polymetal International plc contributed JSC Polymetal shares acquired in course of ISSF as a capital investment in PMTL.
Following completion of the ISSF, PMTL became the owner of more than 50% of the issued share capital of JSC Polymetal and, in accordance with Russian law, launched a mandatory tender offer MTO for all of the JSC Polymetal shares or GDRs not held by it.
The formation of the enlarged Polymetal International Group has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Although the ISSF resulted in Polymetal International plc becoming the controlling shareholder of the JSC Polymetal Group, for accounting purposes in the consolidated financial statements, JSC Polymetal is treated as the acquirer of the Company.
The following accounting treatment has been applied to account for the reverse asset acquisition: the consolidated assets and liabilities of the subsidiary Joint Stock Company Polymetal were recognised and measured at their pre-restructuring carrying amounts, without restatement to fair value: the assets and liabilities of the Company are recognized at their fair value and are consolidated from 2 November 2011, the date at which the new company was formed: comparative numbers presented in the consolidated financial statements are those reported in the consolidated financial statements of Joint Stock Company Polymetal, for the year ended 31 December 2010, except for the presentation of the stated capital account, which has been retrospectively restated to reflect the legal issued share capital of the Company as the legal parent: the Groups consolidated income statement and statement of other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2011 therefore comprises the results of the JSC Polymetal Group from 1 January 2011 to 1 November 2011 and the results of the Group from 2 November 2011 to 31 December 2011.
The Groups retained earnings and other reserves shown in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2011 and the statement of changes in equity are the effective 91.1% share after excluding treasury shares in the equity of the JSC Polymetal Group acquired by the Company on formation of the Group on 2 November 2011 plus the subsequent equity movements of the Group in the period to 31 December 2011. the open MTO offer represents an unavoidable obligation to transfer cash to any persons taking up the offer.
In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Statements: Presentation a US$561.7 million Rouble-denominated liability was recognised at 2 November 2011, with a corresponding debit recognised in reserves.
At 31 December the liability was retranslated at the year end exchange rate to US$534.6 million with the movement recognised within the Translation reserve.
92 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Significant subsidiaries As disclosed above at 31 December 2011, the Company held an effective 91.1% interest in JSC Polymetal.
Through this subsidiary, the Company held the following significant mining and production subsidiaries: Effective interest held by JSC Polymetal, % Country of 31 December 31 December Name of subsidiary Deposits incorporation 2011 2010 CJSC Zoloto Severnogo Urala Vorontsovskoye Russia 100 100 JSC Okhotskaya GGC Khakandjinskoye Russia Yurievskoye 100 100 CJSC Serebro Magadana Dukat Lunnoye Arylakh Goltsovoye Russia 100 100 ZK Mayskoye LLC Mayskoye Russia 100 100 JSC Omolon Gold Mining Company Kubaka Russia Birkachan 100 100 Albazino Resources LLC Albazino Russia 100 100 Amursky Hydrometallurgy Plant LLC N A Russia 100 100 Sopka Rudnik Kvartsevy LLC Kartsevaya Russia 100 100 JSC Varvarinskoye Varvarinskoye Kazakhstan 100 100 Significant shareholders At 31 December 2011, the significant shareholders in the Company are: Pearlmoon Limited, the ultimate beneficial owner of which is Mr Petr Kellner 20.86%, Powerboom Investments Limited, the ultimate beneficial owner of which is Mr Alexander Nesis 17.90%, Vitalbond Limited and its affiliated companies, the ultimate beneficial owner of which is Mr Alexander Mamut 10.12%, MBC Development Limited, the ultimate beneficial owner of which is Mr Alexander Mosionzhik 4.44%, and Staroak Limited, the ultimate beneficial owner of which is Mr Oleg Shuliakovskii 4.27%.
No other parties control more than 3% of the Company shares.
There were no changes to the Significant shareholders ownerships as of 1 April 2012.
Going concern In assessing its going concern status, the Group has taken account of its financial position, anticipated future trading performance, its borrowings and other available credit facilities and its capital expenditure commitments and plans.
It has also considered the US$534 million payment made in February 2012 for the purchase of JSC Polymetal shares not participating in the Group reconstruction under the Mandatory Tender Offer and the further payment expected in June 2012 to purchase the remaining JSC Polymetal shares under the Squeeze Out meaning the compulsory acquisition of JSC Polymetal Shares under Russian law, together with the risks facing the Group.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, having taken account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months from the date of this document and that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
Basis of presentation The Groups annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed by the European Union.
IFRS includes the standards and interpretations approved by the IASB including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments which are measured at fair value.
The accounting policies set out in Note 2 have been applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Group used IFRS, effective as at 31 December 2011, in preparation of these Consolidated financial statements.
Standards and Interpretations in issue not yet adopted The following new or amended IFRS accounting standards not yet adopted are expected to have a significant impact on the Group: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement reflects the first phase of the IASBs three stage project to replace IAS 39.
The first phase deals with the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 93 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
General continued IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses accounting for consolidated financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 provides a single basis for consolidation with a new definition of control.
The standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions by Venturers.
Under IFRS 11 a joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a joint venture, and the option to proportionately consolidate joint ventures has been removed.
Interests in joint ventures must be equity accounted.
This standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities will accompany IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
This standard combines the disclosure requirements previously covered by IAS 27, related to consolidated financial statements, IAS 31 Interest in Joint Ventures and IAS 28 Investments in Associates, as well as including additional disclosure requirements.
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine provides a model for accounting for costs associated with the removal of waste during the production phase of a surface mine, including guidance on the apportionment of the costs incurred for obtaining a current and future benefit and how capitalised costs are depreciated.
This interpretation applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The following new, amended or revised IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement provides a single framework for all fair value measurements and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
An amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements which requires items to be grouped in other comprehensive income based on whether those items are subsequently reclassified to profit or loss.
The amendment is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
An amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
An amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits is to be applied retrospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Amendments have been made to IAS 27 and it has been reissued as IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements.
The revised standard prescribes the accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates when an entity prepares separate financial statements.
The accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in consolidated financial statements are prescribed by IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12.
The revised standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Amendments have been made to IAS 28 and it has been reissued as IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
The revised standard prescribes the application of the equity method when accounting for investments in associates and joint ventures.
The amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
Significant accounting policies Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries and, if applicable, special purpose entities, from the date that control effectively commenced until the date that control effectively ceased.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-Group balances, transactions and any unrealised profits or losses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Changes to the Groups ownership interests that do not result in a loss of control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amount of the Groups interests and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the change in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Parent.
94 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on the disposal is calculated as the difference between 1 the aggregated fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and 2 the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and non-controlling interests.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of net assets recognised at acquisition.
Thereafter, a share of the profit or loss for the financial year and other movements in the net assets or liabilities of the subsidiary is attributed to the non-controlling interests as shown in the income statement and balance sheet.
Business combinations IFRS 3 Business Combinations applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a business combination.
When acquiring new entities or assets, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute an integrated set of activities, whether the integrated set is capable of being conducted and managed as a business by a market participant, and thus whether the transaction constitutes a business combination, using the guidance provided in the standard.
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Transaction costs incurred in connection with the business combination are expensed.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition may include an asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition retrospectively with the corresponding adjustment against goodwill where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the measurement period about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The measurement period may not exceed one year from the effective date of the acquisition.
The subsequent accounting for contingent consideration that does not qualify for as a measurement period adjustment is based on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not subsequently remeasured.
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets or IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement with the corresponding amount being recognised in profit or loss.
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in equity are reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest was disposed of.
Goodwill and goodwill impairment Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 95 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Acquisition of mining licences The acquisition of mining licences is often effected through a non-operating corporate entity.
As these entities do not represent a business, it is considered that the transactions do not meet the definition of a business combination and accordingly the transaction is accounted for as the acquisition of an asset.
The net assets acquired are accounted for at cost.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence constitutes the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but does not extend to a not control or joint control over the enactment of those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Interests in joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control i. e. when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities of the joint venture require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint venture arrangements that involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the equity method of accounting.
Equity method of accounting Under the equity method, an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity investee is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the investee.
When the Groups share of the losses of an associate exceeds the Groups interest in that entity, the Group ceases to recognise its share of further losses.
Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of an investee recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The requirements of IAS 39 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with respect to the Groups investments.
Where an indicator of impairment exists or the carrying value of the asset contains goodwill with an indefinite useful life, the entire carrying amount of the investment including goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 36 as a single cash generating unit through the comparison of its recoverable amount the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell with its carrying amount.
Any impairment loss recognised forms part of the carrying amount of the investment.
Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with IAS 36.
When a Group entity transacts with its investees, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the investee are recognised in the Groups consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate that are not related to the Group.
Functional and presentation currency The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all Russian entities the functional currency is the Russian Rouble RUB.
The investment holding companies, including Polymetal International plc, also have a Rouble functional currency as they are in substance an extension of the Russian group and have significant Rouble-denominated intercompany loans in most cases.
The functional currency of the Groups entity located in Kazakhstan and operating with significant degree of autonomy is the Kazakh Tenge KZT.
The Group has chosen to present its consolidated financial statements in US Dollars US$, as management believes it is a more convenient presentation currency for international users of the consolidated financial statements of the Group as it is a common presentation currency in the mining industry.
The translation of the financial statements of the Group entities from their functional currencies to the presentation currency is performed as follows: all assets and liabilities are translated at closing exchange rates at each reporting period end date: all income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant transactions that are translated at rates on the date of such transactions: resulting exchange differences are included in equity and presented as movements relating to the effect of translation to the Groups presentation currency within the Translation reserve: and in the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash balances at the beginning and end of each reporting period presented are translated using exchange rates prevalent at those respective dates.
All cash flows in the period are translated at the average exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant transactions that are translated at rates on the date of transaction.
96 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 On the disposal of a foreign operation i. e. a disposal of the Groups entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, a disposal involving loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation, all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss.
In the case of a partial disposal that does not result in the Group losing control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For all other partial disposals i. e. reductions in the Groups ownership interest in associates or jointly controlled entities that do not result in the Group losing significant influence or joint control, the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets and liabilities acquired arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of each reporting period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity.
Exchange rates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Russian Rouble US Dollar Year end 32.20 30.48 Average for the year 29.39 30.36 Kazakh Tenge US Dollar Year Period end 148.40 147.40 Average for the year 146.60 147.35 The Rouble and Kazakh Tenge are not freely convertible currencies outside the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan and, accordingly, any translation of Rouble and Kazakh Tenge denominated assets and liabilities into US Dollar for the purpose of the presentation of consolidated financial statements does not imply that the Group could or will in the future realise or settle in US Dollars the translated values of these assets and liabilities.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currencies foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
All monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date on which the most recent fair value was determined.
Exchange differences arising from changes in exchange rates are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Mining assets Mining assets and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing mining assets and mineral rights.
Mining assets are depreciated to their residual values using the unit-of-production method based on proved and probable ore reserves under the Russian Resource Reporting Code GKZ, which is the basis on which the Groups mine plans are prepared.
Changes in proved and probable reserves are dealt with prospectively.
Depreciation is charged on new mining ventures from the date that the mining asset is capable of commercial production.
In respect of those mining assets whose useful lives are expected to be less than the life of the mine, depreciation over the period of the assets useful life is applied.
The difference in the depreciation charge which would have been applied had the Group based the depreciation expense on JORC reserves is considered to be immaterial.
When there is little likelihood of a mineral right being exploited, or the value of the exploitable mineral right has diminished below cost, an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Capital  assets are measured at cost less any recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Mineral exploration and evaluation costs, including geophysical, topographical, geological and similar types of costs, are expensed as incurred.
When it has been determined that a mineral property can be economically developed as a result of established proven and probable reserves, the costs incurred in exploration and development of such property, including costs to further delineate the ore body are capitalised.
Non-mining assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment are considered to have different useful lives, they are accounted for and depreciated separately.
Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
Estimated useful lives are as set out below: Machinery and equipment Up to 20 years Transportation and other assets Up to 15 years Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 97 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the assets carrying amount at the date.
The gain or loss arising is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Stripping costs When it has been determined that a mining asset can be economically developed as a result of established proven and probable reserves, the costs to remove any overburden and other waste materials to initially expose the ore body, referred to as stripping costs, are capitalised as a part of mining assets.
Post-production stripping costs are recognised as a component of inventory and included in cost of sales in the same period as the revenue from the sales of inventory is recognised.
Estimated ore reserves Estimated proved and probable ore reserves reflect the economically recoverable quantities which can be legally recovered in the future from known mineral deposits.
The Groups reserves are estimated in accordance with GKZ and the JORC Code.
Leases Finance leases Leases under which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets subject to finance leases are capitalised as property, plant and equipment at the lower of fair value or present value of future minimum lease payments at the date of acquisition, with the related lease obligation recognised at the same value.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their estimated economic useful lives or over the term of the lease, if shorter.
If there is reasonable certainty that the lessee will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the period of expected use is useful life of the asset.
Finance lease payments are calculated using the effective interest rate method, and allocated between the lease finance cost, which is included in finance cost, and the capital repayment, which reduces the related lease liability payable to the lessor.
Operating leases Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment An impairment review of property, plant and equipment is carried out when there is an indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the carrying amount of the asset is compared to the estimated recoverable amount of the asset in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the original carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
Inventories Metal inventories Inventories including refined metals, metals in concentrate and in process, dor and ore stockpiles are stated at the lower of production cost or net realisable value.
Production cost is determined as the sum of the applicable expenditures and expenses incurred directly or indirectly in bringing inventories to their existing condition and location.
Refined metals are valued at the average total cost of production per saleable unit of metal.
Work in-process, metal concentrate and dor are valued at the average total production costs at each assets relevant stage of production.
Ore stockpiles are valued at the average cost of mining ore. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for that product based on prevailing spot metal prices, less estimated costs to complete production and selling costs.
98 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Consumables and spare parts Consumables and spare parts are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the weighted average moving cost.
The portion of consumables and spare parts not reasonably expected to be used within one year is classified as a long-term asset in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Financial Instruments Designated as Fair Value Through Profit and Loss FVTPL A financial instrument other than a financial instrument held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial instrument forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial instruments at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 29.
Financial assets The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial instrument and of allocating interest income or expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Effective interest rate method Non-derivative financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: FVTPL, available for sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
No financial instruments have been classified as available for sale.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for financial instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Interest income is determined by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
AFS financial assets Investments other than those classified as held for trading, held-to-maturity or loans and receivables are classified as available for sale financial assets.
These assets are subsequently measured at fair value and unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity until the investment is disposed or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the consolidated income statement.
When an available for sale financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss in the period.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period.
Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
For equity investments classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 99 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation: or the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the consolidated income statement to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial liabilities Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities including borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Derivative financial instruments The Group may enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to certain risks.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 29.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the consolidated income statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the hybrid contracts are not measured at FVTPL.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
100 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, cash deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or fewer, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
Environmental obligations An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of mining assets.
Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value using a risk-free rate applicable to the future cash flows, are provided for and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement over the life of the operation, through the depreciation of the asset in the cost of sales line and the unwinding of the discount on the provision in the finance costs line.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their net present values and recognised in the consolidated income statement as extraction progresses.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate, are added to or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period.
If a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
The provision for closure cost obligations is remeasured at the end of each reporting period for changes in estimates and circumstances.
Changes in estimates and circumstances include changes in legal or regulatory requirements, increased obligations arising from additional mining and exploration activities, changes to cost estimates and changes to the risk free interest rate.
Employee benefit obligations Remuneration paid to employees in respect of services rendered during a reporting period is recognised as an expense in that reporting period.
The Group pays mandatory contributions to the state social funds, including the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan, which are expensed as incurred.
Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Income taxes are computed in accordance with the laws of countries where the Group operates.
Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 101 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Current and deferred tax Current and deferred tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except when they relate to items that are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax also recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.
Revenue recognition Revenue is derived principally from the sale of gold and silver bullions and copper, gold and silver concentrate and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts.
Revenue from the sale of gold and silver bullion and sale of copper gold and silver concentrate is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer, the Group retains neither a continuing degree of involvement nor control over the goods sold, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Revenue from the sale of gold and silver bullion represents the invoiced value of metal shipped to the buyer, net of value added tax VAT.
Sale of gold and silver bullion The Group processes dor produced in the Russian Federation at Dukat, Khakanja, Voro, and Omolon into London Good Delivery Bars prior to sale.
This final stage of processing is carried out on a toll-treatment basis at four state-owned refineries.
The Group sells gold and silver bullion to banks through long-term agreements.
The sales price, as determined in the agreement, may be variable based upon the London Bullion Market Association LBMA spot price or fixed but the Groups policy is not to enter into fixed price contracts.
For domestic sales, title passes from the Group to the purchaser at the refinery gate with revenue recognised at that point.
For export sales, once the gold and or silver bars have been approved for export by Russian customs, they are then transported to the vault of the purchaser, which is typically located in London.
Title passes and revenue is recognised at the point when the gold and or silver bars are received by the purchaser.
Sales of copper, gold and silver concentrate The Group sells copper, gold and silver concentrate under pricing arrangements where final prices are determined by quoted market prices in a period subsequent to the date of sale.
Concentrate sales are initially recorded based on forward prices for the expected date of final settlement.
Revenue is recorded at the time of shipment, which is also when risks and rewards pass to the buyer.
Revenue is calculated based on the copper, gold and silver content in the concentrate and using the forward London Metal Bulletin LMB or London Metal Exchange LME price to the estimated final pricing date, adjusted for the specific terms of the relevant agreement.
Until final settlement occurs, adjustments to revenue are made to take into account the changes in metal quantities upon receipt of new information and assay.
Revenue is presented net of refining and treatment charges which are subtracted in calculating the amount to be invoiced.
The Groups sales of copper, gold and silver concentrate are based on a provisional price and as such, contain an embedded derivative that is required to be separated from the host contract for accounting purposes.
The host contract is the receivable from the sale of the concentrate at the forward exchange price at the time of sale.
The embedded derivative, which does not qualify for hedge accounting, is measured at FVTPL with changes in its fair value recognised within revenue in the consolidated income statement for each period prior to the final settlement.
Share-based compensation The Group applies IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to its accounting for share-based compensation.
IFRS 2 requires companies to recognise compensation costs for share-based payments to employees based on the grant-date fair value of the award.
The fair value of share-based payments is calculated by the Group at the grant date using the two-stage Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the awards.
The fair value of the awards granted is recognised as a general and administrative expense over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in the share-based compensation reserve.
Where relevant, the proceeds received on exercise of the 102 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 awards, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to the stated capital account, and the amounts recognised within the share-based compensation reserve transferred to retained earnings.
Earnings per share Earnings per share calculations are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated using the treasury stock method, whereby the proceeds from the potential exercise of dilutive stock options with exercise prices that are below the average market price of the underlying shares are assumed to be used in purchasing the Companys common shares at their average market price for the period.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations see below, that the management has made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in consolidated financial statements.
Production start date The Group assesses the stage of each mine construction project to determine when a mine moves into the production stage.
The criteria used to assess the start date are determined by the unique nature of each mine construction project and include factors such as the complexity of a plant and its location.
The Group considers various relevant criteria to assess when the mine is substantially complete and ready for its intended use and moves into the production stage.
Criteria considered but are not limited to the following: the level of capital expenditure incurred compared to the construction cost estimates: the completion of a sufficient level of testing on the mine plant and equipment: the ability to produce gold and silver in saleable form within specifications : and the ability to sustain ongoing commercial level of production of gold.
When a mine construction project moves into the production stage and depreciation commences, the capitalisation of certain mine construction costs and interest ceases and costs are either regarded as inventory or expensed, except for capitalisable costs related to mining asset additions or improvements, underground mine development or ore reserve development.
Acquisitions IFRS 3 Business Combinations applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a business combination.
When acquiring new entities or assets, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute an integrated set of activities and thus whether the transaction constitutes a business combination, using the guidance provided in the standard.
In making this determination, management evaluates the inputs, processes and outputs of the asset or entity acquired.
As a result of this evaluation process, management has determined that its 2011 acquisitions of Kutynskaya GGK LLC, Industriya LLC and Office LLC did not meet the definition of a business combination and as such the Group has accounted for these transactions as asset acquisitions see Note 4.
Such purchases are recorded at cost, allocated across the assets and liabilities acquired pro-rata to their fair values.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the Groups management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The determination of estimates requires judgements which are based on historical experience, current and expected economic conditions, and all other available information.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period.
The most significant areas requiring the use of management estimates and assumptions relate to: fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations: ore reserve estimates: depreciation: impairment of goodwill, mining assets and other property, plant and equipment: inventory obsolescence and write-downs: share-based compensation: environmental obligations: contingencies: and income taxes.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 103 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations In accordance with the Groups policy, the Group allocates the cost of the acquired entity to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values as estimated on the date of acquisition.
Any difference between the cost of the acquired entity and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.
The Group exercises significant judgement in the process of identifying tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, valuing these assets and liabilities, and estimating their remaining useful lives.
The valuation of these assets and liabilities is based on assumptions and criteria that, in some cases, include managements estimates of discounted future cash flows.
If actual results are not consistent with estimates and assumptions considered, the Group may have to adjust its estimates of the fair values of assets and liabilities recognised and the goodwill balance during the measurement period.
Such a remeasurement could have an impact on the amounts reported in the consolidated income statement in current and future periods.
Ore reserve estimates An ore reserve estimate is an estimate of the amount of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
Ore reserve estimates are used by the Group in the calculation of: depletion of mining assets using the units-of-production method: impairment charges and in forecasting the timing of the payment of decommissioning and land restoration costs.
Also, for the purpose of impairment review and the assessment of the timing of the payment of decommissioning and land restoration costs, management may take into account mineral resources in addition to ore reserves where there is a high degree of confidence that such resources will be extracted.
In order to calculate ore reserves, estimates and assumptions are required about geological, technical and economic factors, including quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices, discount rates and exchange rates.
Estimating the quantity and or grade of ore reserves requires the size, shape and depth of ore bodies to be determined by analysing geological data such as the logging and assaying of drill samples.
This process may require complex and difficult geological judgements and calculations to interpret the data.
Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period as additional geological data becomes available during the course of operations or if there are changes in any of the aforementioned assumptions.
Such changes in estimated reserves may affect the Groups financial results and financial position in a number of ways, including the following: asset carrying values due to changes in estimated future cash flows: depletion charged in the consolidated income statement where such charges are determined by using the units-ofproduction method: provisions for decommissioning and land restoration costs where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations about the timing of the payment of such costs: and carrying value of deferred tax assets and liabilities where changes in estimated reserves affect the carrying value of the relevant assets and liabilities.
Depreciation Mining assets are depreciated using the units-of-production method except where the useful lives of the assets are shorter than the life of mine.
The units-of-production depreciation calculations are based on proved and probable reserves under the Russian Resource Reporting Code GKZ, which is the basis on which managements mine plans are prepared.
For other property, plant and equipment, the straight-line method is applied over the estimated useful life of the asset which does not exceed the estimated mine life based on proved and probable ore reserves as the useful lives of these assets are considered to be limited to the life of the relevant mine.
The calculation of the units-of-production rate of depreciation could be impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from current forecast production based on proved and probable ore reserves.
This would generally arise when there are significant changes in any of the factors or assumptions used in estimating ore reserves.
The Groups units-of-production depreciation rates are based on the GKZ reserves figures which are different to the reserves calculated under the JORC reporting code and included into the Groups external reporting.
Impairment of goodwill, mining assets and other property, plant and equipment The Group considers both external and internal sources of information in assessing whether there are any indications that goodwill, mining assets or other property, plant and equipment owned by the Group are impaired.
External sources of information the Group considers include changes in the market, economic and legal environment in which the Group operates that are not within its control and that affect the recoverable amount of goodwill, mining assets or other property, plant and equipment.
Internal sources of information the Group considers include the manner in which mining properties and plant and equipment are being used or expected to be used and indications of economic performance of the assets.
In determining the recoverable amounts of the Groups mining assets and other property, plant and equipment, the Groups management makes estimates of the discounted future after-tax cash flows expected to be derived from the Groups mining properties, costs to sell the mining properties and the appropriate discount rate.
Reductions in metal price forecasts, increases in estimated future costs of production, increases in estimated future capital costs, reductions in the amount of recoverable reserves and resources and or adverse current economics can result in a write-down of the carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill, mining assets or other property, plant and equipment.
104 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 In making the assessment for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash flows are allocated to an appropriate cash-generating unit.
Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets that do not generate independent cash flows to appropriate cash-generating units, and also in estimating the timing and value of underlying cash flows within the value-in-use calculation.
Subsequent changes to the cash-generating unit allocation or to the timing of cash flows could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
Inventory obsolescence and write-downs In determining mine operating costs recognised in the consolidated income statement, the Groups management makes estimates of quantities of ore stacked on leach pads and in process and the recoverable gold, silver and copper in this material to determine the average costs of finished goods sold during the period.
Changes in these estimates can result in a change in mine operating costs of future periods and carrying amounts of inventories.
Share-based compensation The Group issued equity-settled share appreciation rights to certain employees.
Equitysettled share appreciation rights are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the awards is expensed as services are rendered over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the rights that will eventually vest.
The fair value of share based compensation is measured using the Monte-Carlo model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The most significant assumptions used in estimation of the cost of equity-settled stock appreciation rights are: the expected volatility of the Companys share price over the life of the award: the risk-free interest rate used: the level of expected forfeitures and the expectation at the grant date of the dividends to be paid over the life of the awards.
Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of return on the Companys GDRs.
The risk-free rates used in the valuation model are based on US Treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant.
Expected forfeitures are estimated using historical trends of executive director and employee turnover.
At the grant date, the Group had not historically declared dividends.
As such, the expected annual dividend per share was therefore nil.
Any subsequent change in dividend policy will be taken into account when valuing options granted in the future.
Environmental obligations The Groups mining and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
The Groups provision for future decommissioning and land restoration cost represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future cash outflows required to settle the liability which reflects estimates of future costs, inflation, movements in foreign exchange rates and assumptions of risks associated with the future cash outflows: and the applicable interest rate for discounting the future cash outflows.
Actual costs incurred in future periods could differ materially from the estimates.
Additionally, future changes to environmental laws and regulations, life of mine estimates and discount rates could affect the carrying amount of this provision.
Contingencies By their nature, contingencies will only be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of such contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgements and estimates of the outcome of future events.
Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan.
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes due to the complexity of legislation.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
The estimation of that probability includes judgements based on the expected performance.
Various factors are considered in order to assess the probability of the future utilisation of deferred tax assets, including past operating results, operational plan, expiration of tax losses carried forward, and tax planning strategies.
If actual results differ from these estimates or if these estimates must be adjusted in future periods, the financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 105 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Acquisitions and disposals a Asset acquisitions Kutyn LLC On 29 April 2011, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Kutynskaya GGK LLC Kutyn from Olsen Business Limited, an unrelated party, in exchange for 3,500,000 JSC Polymetal GDRs.
The GDR share price on the acquisition date was US$19.14.
The Group acquired Kutyn as it holds the mining licence for Kutyn gold deposit located in the Khabarovsk Region.
Kutyn does not meet the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008 thus this acquisition was accounted for as an acquisition of a group of assets.
The allocation of the cost of acquisition to the group of assets acquired was as follows: US$000 Mineral rights 67,719 Property, plant and equipment 618 Other liabilities 1,347 Net assets acquired 66,990 Consideration: Fair value of GDRs transferred 66,990 Industriya LLC On 27 May 2011, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Industriya LLC Industriya from Kuzmichev V. V. an unrelated party.
The Group acquired Industriya as it holds the hard-rock gold exploration and mining licence for the Elmus property.
The Group paid cash consideration of US$1.78 million.
Industriya does not meet the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008 thus it was accounted for as an acquisition of a group of assets.
The Group purchased mineral rights of US$1.82 million and other current liabilities of US$ 0.04 million.
Office LLC On 13 May 2011, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Office LLC Office from ICT-Kolyma LLC, an unrelated party, for US$10.32 million, of which US$6.2 million was netted against advance provided to ICT-Kolyma LLC in 2010.
The Group acquired Office as it holds three storeys of an office premises in Magadan.
The cost of the office premises was US$9.76 million, with the residual amount of US$0.6 million representing other assets and liabilities acquired.
In the prior year, the following transactions took place: Rudnik Avlayakan LLC and Kirankan LLC On 8 October 2010, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Rudnik Avlayakan LLC Avlayakan and Kirankan LLC Kirankan from Doland Business Limited, an unrelated party, in exchange for 3,500,000 of JSCs GDRs, with a market price of US$17.20 per GDR on the acquisition date.
The Group acquired Avlayakan and Kirankan as they hold the mining licences for Avlayakan and Kirankan gold and silver deposits located in the Khabarovsk region.
Avlayakan and Kirankan did not meet the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008 thus these acquisitions were accounted for as an acquisition of a group of assets.
The allocation of the cost of acquisition to the group of assets acquired was as follows: US$000 Mineral rights 64,297 Property, plant and equipment 916 Construction in progress 492 Other liabilities 440 Non-current borrowings 5,065 Net assets acquired 60,200 Consideration: Fair value of GDRs transferred 60,200 PD RUS LLC On 9 December 2010, the Group acquired a 100% interest in PD RUS LLC PD RUS from Castalian Trading Limited, an unrelated party.
The Group acquired PD RUS as it holds the mining and exploration licence for Svetloye gold deposit located in the Khabarovsk region.
The Group paid a cash consideration of US$9.25 million in the form of settlement of PD RUSs liabilities.
106 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 PD RUS did not meet the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008 thus it was accounted for as an acquisition of a group of assets.
The allocation of the cost of acquisition to the group of assets acquired was as follows: US$000 Mineral rights 7,345 Property, plant and equipment 744 Other assets 1,161 Net assets acquired 9,250 Consideration: Cash 9,250 b Disposal of subsidiary CJSC Northeastern Coal Company On 29 June 2011 the Group sold 100% of CJSC Northeastern Coal Company for US$5.3 million to an unrelated party.
CJSC Northeastern Coal Company did not perform any operations during 2010 or 2011.
The gain on disposal was calculated as follows: US$000 Consideration received 5,300 Carrying value of property, plant and equipment disposed of 5,725 Carrying value of other liabilities disposed of 5,356 Gain on disposal 4,931 c Disposal of subsidiary in exchange for an interest in an associate In November 2010, a Group subsidiary signed an agreement to establish JSC Ural-Polymetal Ural-Polymetal, with Valentorskiy Rudnik LLC and Kuzmichev V. V. The Group contributed 100% of its interest in North Ural LLC, a subsidiary of the Group, holding the Galka gold, zinc and silver mining licence to Ural-Polymetal see Note 19.
The other investors also contributed assets in the entity with the Group receiving a 33% equity interest in Ural-Polymetal.
The carrying value of the net assets transferred to the equity investment on the date of disposal approximated fair value.
The amount disposed of was as follows: US$000 Carrying value of assets disposed Mineral rights 3,936 Other assets 2,641 Net assets disposed of 6,577 Gain on disposal 3,580 Fair value of interest in associate undertaking acquired 10,157 5.
Segment information The Group has seven reportable segments: Voro CJSC Zoloto Severnogo Urala : Khakanja JSC Okhotskaya GGC, Rudnik Avlayakan LLC and Kirankan LLC, see Note 4 : Dukat CJSC Serebro Magadana, CJSC Ayax : Omolon JSC Omolon Gold Mining Company, Rudnik Kvartseviy LLC : Varvara JSC Varvarinskoye : Amursk-Albazino Albazino Resources LLC, Amursky Hydrometallurgy Plant LLC : and Mayskoye ZK Mayskoye LLC.
Reportable segments are determined based on the Groups internal management reports and are separated based on the Groups geographical profile.
Minor companies and activities management, exploration, purchasing and other companies which do not meet the reportable segment criteria are disclosed within Corporate and other.
Each segment is engaged in gold, silver and copper mining and related activities, including exploration, extraction, processing and reclamation.
The Groups segments are all based in the Russian Federation other than Varvara which is based in Kazakhstan.
The measure which management and the Chief Operating Decision Maker the CODM use to evaluate the performance of the Group is segment adjusted EBITDA, which is defined as profit for the period adjusted for depreciation and amortization, writedowns of inventory to net realisable value, share-based compensation expenses, listing expenses, rehabilitation expenses, gains or losses arising on disposal of subsidiaries, foreign exchange gains or losses, changes in the fair value of derivatives, changes in the fair value of contingent consideration, finance income, finance costs and income tax expenses.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are consistent with those of the Groups accounting policies under IFRS as described in Note 2.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 107 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Segment information continued Revenue shown as corporate and other comprises, principally, intersegment revenue relating to the supply of inventories, spare parts and fixed assets to the Groups production entities.
Intersegment revenue is recognised based on costs incurred plus a fixed margin basis.
External revenue shown within Corporate and other represents revenue from services provided to third parties by the Groups non-mining subsidiaries.
Business segment current assets and liabilities, other than current inventory, are not reviewed by the CODM and therefore are not disclosed in these consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Revenue by major customers is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 VTB 241,815 301,015 Kazzink 136,661 4,901 Russian Federation State Fund of Precious Metals GOHRAN 122,048 7,752 Metalor S. A.
106,870 80,942 Sberbank 106,430 76,316 HSBC 100,314 9,703 Other 250,455 127,963 Total sales to third parties 1,064,593 608,592 Sales to related parties Nomos-Bank 258,794 315,405 258,794 315,405 Total metal sales 1,323,387 923,997 Other 3,043 1,379 Total 1,326,430 925,376 Revenue from transactions with individual customers which composed 10% or more of the Groups total revenue analysed by reporting segments is presented below: Year ended 31 December 2011 US$000 Dukat Khakanja Voro Omolon Total VTB 191,889 49,926 241,815 Nomos-Bank 177,559 18,288 62,947 258,794 Kazzinc 136,661 136,661 Total 328,550 177,559 68,214 62,947 637,270 Year ended 31 December 2010 US$000 Dukat Khakanja Voro Omolon Total Nomos-Bank 81,641 167,208 42,084 24,472 315,405 VTB 235,146 32,797 33,072 301,015 Total 316,787 200,005 75,156 24,472 616,420 Revenue analysed by geographical region of customers is presented below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Sales within the Russian Federation 862,763 780,284 Sales to China 119,823 44,515 Sales to Europe 207,184 95,676 Sales to Kazakhstan 136,660 4,901 Total 1,326,430 925,376 Presented below is an analysis of revenue from gold, silver and copper sales: Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Average price Average price Thousand US$ per Thousand US$ per ounces tonne troy ounce tonne ounces tonne troy ounce tonne unaudited unaudited US$000 unaudited unaudited US$000 Gold thousand ounces 448 1,556.10 697,135 440 1,232.09 542,118 Silver thousand ounces 17,045 34.04 580,182 17,961 19.64 352,721 Copper tonne 6,363 7,240.30 46,070 3,991 7,305.94 29,158 Total 1,323,387 923,997 110 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 7.
Cost of sales Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Cash operating costs On-mine costs Note 8 319,740 173,922 Smelting costs Note 9 254,817 173,540 Purchase of ore from third parties 16,817 11,198 Mining tax 96,955 57,210 Total cash operating costs 688,329 415,870 Depreciation and depletion of operating assets Note 10 140,253 75,709 Rehabilitation expenses 3,583 2,862 Total costs of production 832,165 494,441 Increase in metal inventories 215,492 53,160 Write-down to net realisable value Note 21 6,232 15,319 Total change in metal inventories 209,260 37,841 Cost of other sales 2,835 1,514 Total 625,740 458,114 8.
Depletion and depreciation of operating assets Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Mining 106,402 48,211 Smelting 33,851 27,498 Total Note 7 140,253 75,709 Depreciation on operating assets excludes depreciation relating to non-operating assets included in general, administrative and selling expenses and depreciation related to assets employed in development projects where the charge is capitalised.
Depreciation expense, which is excluded in the Groups calculation of Adjusted EBITDA see note 5, also excludes amounts absorbed into unsold metal inventory balances.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 111 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Other expenses Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Exploration expenses 30,212 8,105 Taxes, other than income tax 11,278 14,467 Listing expenses 9,511 Social payments 8,692 6,468 Housing and communal services 6,357 4,269 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6,203 6,296 Omolon plant pre-commissioning expenses 7,156 Bad debt allowance 1,171 2,333 Other expenses 7,262 6,430 Total 78,344 55,524 Costs incurred in connection with the admission to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and the related Group restructuring have been expensed.
Costs incurred in relation to the issuance of the new primary equity at the time of admission have been deducted from the Stated Capital account.
Exploration expenses include an US$13.2 million write down of evaluation and exploration assets relating to the Dukat segment, where management have decided to suspend development activities principally relating to the Rogovikskaya field.
Employee costs The weighted average number of employees as of 31 December 2011 was: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Number Number Voro 848 830 Khakanja 1,021 914 Dukat 1,824 1,787 Omolon 913 607 Varvara 657 614 Amursk-Albazino 897 581 Mayskoye 617 397 Corporate and other 1,274 1,182 Total 8,051 6,912 112 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 204,379 143,107 Social security costs 40,040 23,785 Share based payments 57,116 7,896 Total payroll costs 301,535 174,788 Less: employee costs capitalised 30,250 41,802 Less: employee costs absorbed into unsold metal inventory balances.
30,935 6,398 Employee costs included in operating costs 240,350 126,588 The Group pays mandatory contributions to state social funds, including the pension funds of the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan, which are expensed as incurred.
The Group contributed US$31.8 million and US$15.3 million during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Compensation for management personnel is disclosed within Note 33.
Auditors remuneration Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the auditor and their associates for the audit of the Companys Annual Report United Kingdom 250 Overseas 555 877 Total audit fees 805 877 Audit-related assurance services half year review 135 Taxation compliance services 28 30 Other services 3,482 Total non-audit fees 3,510 165 Total auditor remuneration 4,315 1,042 Other services provided in the year relate to services in relation to the Group listing and capital raising in the year see Note 1.
US$0.5 million of these costs were allocated to the Stated Capital Account in line with the methodology as set out in Note 31.
Finance costs Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Interest expense on borrowings 20,074 16,991 Unwinding of discount on borrowings 5,344 2,138 Unwinding of discount on decommissioning obligations 3,328 2,412 Total 28,746 21,541 Interest expense on borrowings excludes borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets of US$12.5 million and US$9.59 million during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010, respectively.
These amounts were calculated based on the Groups general borrowing pool and by applying an effective interest rate of 2.81% and 6.11%, respectively, to cumulative expenditure on such assets.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 113 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Income tax The income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2011 is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Current income taxes 127,671 76,922 Deferred income taxes 8,686 9,508 118,985 67,414 A reconciliation between the reported amount of income tax expense attributable to profit before income for the year ended 31 December 2011 is as follows: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Profit before income tax 408,847 306,430 Statutory income tax expense at the tax rate of 20% 81,769 61,286 Loss incurred in tax-free jurisdictions 5,998 234 Share-based compensation 11,423 1,579 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses and other permanent differences 14,490 4,315 Prior year adjustment 5,305 Total income tax expense 118,985 67,414 The actual tax expense differs from the amount which would have been determined by applying the statutory rate of 20% for the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan to profit before income tax as a result of the application of relevant jurisdictional tax regulations, which disallow certain deductions which are included in the determination of accounting profit.
These deductions include share-based compensation, social related expenditures and other non-production costs, certain general and administrative expenses, financing expenses, foreign exchange related and other costs.
In the normal course of business, the Group is subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan.
Out of the large operating companies of the Group, tax authorities have audited OJSC Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company, CJSC Magadan Silver for the period up to 2007, CJSC Gold of Northern Urals for the period up to 2009 and JSC Varvarinskoye for the period up to 2010.
According to Russian and Kazakhstan tax legislation, previously conducted audits do not fully exclude subsequent claims relating to the audited period.
No significant adjustments have been proposed by the Federal Tax Service of the Russian Federation and Tax Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan as at 31 December 2011.
Deferred taxation is attributable to the temporary differences that exist between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the reporting period.
Environmental Property, plant, Trade and obligation Inventories and equipment other payables Tax Losses Loan Other Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2011 8,881 2,774 84,262 822 36,213 9,903 25,669 Charge credit to profit or loss 2,723 11,538 2,985 3,663 21,234 2,875 7,506 8,686 Exchange differences 614 942 3,254 36 3,786 251 324 241 At 31 December 2011 10,990 7,822 78,023 4,521 53,661 2,624 2,073 17,224 114 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Deferred tax liabilities 79,342 83,345 Deferred tax assets 62,118 57,676 17,224 25,669 Tax losses carried forward represent amounts available for offset against future taxable income generated by JSC Omolon Gold Mining Company, ZK Mayskoye LLC, Albazino Resources LLC and the Company during the period up to 2021.
Each legal entity within the Group represents a separate tax-paying component for income tax purposes.
The tax losses of one entity cannot be used to reduce taxable income of other entities of the Group.
As at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 the aggregate tax losses carried forward were US$268.3 million RUB 8.6 billion and US$181.1 million RUB 5.52 billion, respectively.
The Group believes that recoverability of the recognized net deferred tax asset DTA of US$62.1 million at 31 December 2011 is more likely than not based upon expectations of future taxable income in the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan and available tax planning strategies.
Losses incurred in certain taxable entities in recent years have created a history of losses as of 31 December 2011.
The Group has concluded that there is sufficient evidence to overcome the recent history of losses based on forecasts of sufficient taxable income in the carry-forward period.
The Groups estimate of future taxable income is based on established proved and probable reserves which can be economically developed.
The income from the Groups proved and probable mineral reserves is a predictable source of future income and produces sufficient taxable income for realisation of the Groups net DTA.
The Group is projecting to generate sufficient taxable earnings to be able to fully realise its net DTA even under various stressed scenarios.
The amount of the DTA considered realisable, however, could be reduced in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carry forward period are reduced due to delays in production start dates, decreases in ore reserve estimates, increases in environmental obligations, or reductions in precious metal prices.
The Groups recognised tax losses carried forward expire as follows: 31 December 2011 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2012 31 December 2013 13 31 December 2014 2,735 31 December 2015 7,563 31 December 2016 12,385 31 December 2017 21,813 31 December 2018 34,359 31 December 2019 43,937 31 December 2020 46,916 31 December 2021 98,578 Total losses carried forward for tax purposes 268,299 The deferred tax liabilities for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Group subsidiaries have not been recognised as the Group has determined that the undistributed profit of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised, amount to US$1,066.3 million 2010: US$nil.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 115 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Mineral rights of the Group comprise assets acquired upon acquisition of subsidiaries and asset acquisitions.
At 31 December 2010 property, plant and equipment included leased assets with a net book value of US$10.6 million all of which was machinery.
At 31 December 2011 there were no leased assets.
Property, plant and equipment with a total net book value of US$137.8 million including mineral rights with a net book value of US$9.2 million were pledged as collateral to secure the Groups borrowings at 31 December 2010 see Note 24.
No property, plant and equipment were pledged as collateral at 31 December 2011.
116 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 18.
Goodwill 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 114,712 115,729 Translation effect 6,125 1,017 At 31 December 108,587 114,712 Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to the following cash-generating units comprising operating segments: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Varvara 64,537 68,177 Mayskoye 22,377 23,639 Khakanja 13,431 14,189 Dukat 8,242 8,707 Total 108,587 114,712 The carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed annually to determine whether it is in excess of its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of cash-generating unit is determined based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation.
Fair value is based on the application of the Discounted Cash Flow Method DCF.
The DCF method is attributable to the development of proved and probable reserves.
The tail margin method, an extension of the DCF method, is attributable to the development of resources beyond proved and probable reserves, assuming they could be developed after the end of the DCF forecast period.
Resources used in calculations are based on the amounts of measured and indicated and inferred resources, which are adjusted for a conversion factor in order to obtain a forecast production figure.
A steady state cash flow per unit of subject metal is usually applied to the annual resource recovery amount to determine the total annual cash flow, based on past experience with an appropriate risk adjustment.
The discount rate used in the calculations was fixed and equalled the Polymetal WACC 9% both periods.
The DCF method is used based on proved and probable reserves and uses the following key assumptions: production volumes: commodity prices: proved and probable reserves: and production costs.
Recoverable reserves and resources are based on the proved and probable reserves and resources in existence at the end of the year.
Production costs are based on managements best estimate over the life of the mine.
Estimated production volumes are based on detailed life of mine plans and take into account development plans for the mines approved by management as part of the long-term planning process.
Commodity prices are based on latest internal forecasts, benchmarked against external sources of information.
The tail margin method is used to value resources not currently included within an assets mine plan.
The methodology involves calculating an estimated unit cost per ounce in order to forecast net operating cash flows which are discounted to present value.
While applying the tail margin method the Company used the following key assumptions: production forecasts were calculated based on the weighted average amount of measured and indicated and inferred resources with a conversion factor of 0.7 for measured and indicated resources and 0.5 for inferred resources: and steady state cash flow per unit of subject metal gold or silver was determined as the average of cash flows per unit of subject metal for the period during which their values in real terms were relatively stable.
In managements view, no reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions would trigger an impairment charge of goodwill.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 117 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Investments in associates and joint ventures The Groups investments in joint ventures and associates as at 31 December 2011 and 2010 consisted of the following: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Carrying Carrying Voting power Value Voting power Value % US$000 % US$000 Associates JSC Ural-Polymetal 33.3 11,152 33.3 10,901 Joint ventures JV with AngloGold Ashanti Limited 50 12,406 50 15,920 Total 23,558 26,821 Joint venture with AngloGold Ashanti Limited In February 2008, the Company signed an agreement to set up a strategic alliance and a joint venture the Joint Venture with AngloGold Ashanti Limited.
Within the framework of this agreement each party owns 50% in the Joint Venture.
The Joint Venture was created in order to execute development projects in several territories of the Russian Federation.
In February 2012 the Group acquired the remaining 50% interest in the Joint Venture, see Note 35 for further post balance sheet event disclosures.
Equity investment in JSC Ural-Polymetal In November 2010, a Group subsidiary signed an agreement to establish JSC Ural-Polymetal Ural-Polymetal, with Valentorskiy Rudnik LLC and Kuzmichev V. V. The Group contributed 100% of its interest in North Ural LLC, a subsidiary of the Group, holding Galka gold, zinc and silver mining licence see Note 4 to Ural-Polymetal.
In addition to Galka, assets contributed to Ural-Polymetal by other investors consist of an operating copper and zinc open-pit mine, an operating copper and iron ore underground mine and a processing plant.
Within the framework of this agreement the Group, Valentorskiy Rudnik LLC and Kuzmichev V. V. each own 33.3%, 55.7% and 11%, respectively, of Ural-Polymetal.
Ural-Polymetal was established in order to execute development projects in the North Ural region of the Russian Federation concerned with silver, zinc, copper and iron ore extraction and processing.
The Groups ownership interests in the subsidiaries of the Joint Venture and Ural-Polymetal as at 31 December 2011 and 2010 are as follows: Ownership interest, % Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2011 2010 Joint venture with AngloGold Ashanti Limited CJSC Enisey Mining and Geological Company Russia 50 50 Imitzoloto LLC Russia 50 50 Amikan LLC Russia 50 50 Zoloto Taigi LLC Russia 50 50 JSC Ural-Polymetal Polymetals of North Ural LLC Russia 33 33 Valentorskiy Medniy Karier LLC Russia 33 33 Uraldragmet LLC Russia 33 33 The following tables summarise the aggregate financial position and the Groups share in the net losses of the Joint Venture with AngloGold Ashanti Limited and the investment in Ural-Polymetal: AngloGold Ashanti Limited JSC Ural-Polymetal 100% basis 100% basis 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Non-current assets 84,191 89,159 45,925 46,952 Current assets 659 477 9,229 6,722 Non-current liabilities 24,560 25,013 7,582 9,215 Current liabilities 4,784 2,592 12,198 11,824 Equity 55,506 62,031 35,374 32,634 118 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 AngloGold Ashanti Limited JSC Ural-Polymetal Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue 28,603 3,266 Net loss income 5,731 1,820 2,740 780 Groups share in joint ventures net loss income 2,866 910 914 260 20.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Inventories expected to be recovered after twelve months Consumables and spare parts 44,318 21,017 Total 44,318 21,017 Inventories expected to be recovered in the next twelve months Ore stock piles 216,243 103,914 Work in progress 111,866 70,023 Copper, gold and silver concentrate 27,685 16,762 Dore 22,889 2,407 Refined metals 24 321 Total metal inventories 378,707 193,427 Consumables and spare parts 234,509 175,088 Total 613,216 368,515 During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group recognised a US$2.8 million 2010: US$13.5 million write-down to net realisable value of its ore stock piles in Varvara due to poor gold and copper recovery on ore with lower content of precious metals respectively.
As of 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 amount of inventories held at NRV is nil.
In addition, during the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group wrote-down US$3.5 million of costs 2010: nil in Omolon which did not significantly enhance the value of the ore stockpiles.
During 2011 the Group reversed previous obsolescence provisioning against consumables and spare parts inventory during the year ended 31 December 2011 in the amount of US$0.6 million 2010: write-down of US$1.8 million.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 119 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Trade receivables 37,609 19,765 Non-trade receivables 28,099 23,574 Short-term loans provided to entity under common control 1,522 Short-term loans provided to employees 1,426 2,507 Short-term loans provided to equity method investments 315 Total trade and other receivables 68,971 45,846 Less: Allowance for doubtful debts 980 2,163 Total 67,991 43,683 Trade receivables mainly relate to JSC Varvarinskoye for their sales of provisionally priced copper and gold concentrate, and to CJSC Serebro Magadana for their sales of provisionally priced silver concentrate.
4,440 3,014 Trafigura 2,036 11,096 Other 173 754 Total 37,609 19,765 The average credit period on sales of copper, gold and silver concentrate at 31 December 2011 was 28 days 2010: 22 days.
No interest is charged on trade receivables.
The Groups allowance for doubtful debt relates to its non-trade receivables.
The Groups trade receivables are neither past due nor impaired as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
Non-trade receivables include amounts receivable from sale of fuel or operating lease of machinery to contractors, the average credit period for non-trade receivables at 31 December 2011 was 143 days 2010: 101 days.
No interest is charged on non-trade receivables.
Non-trade receivables disclosed above include those that are past due at the end of the reporting period for which the Group has not recognised a bad debt allowance because there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered to be recoverable.
Such past due but not impaired receivables amounted to US$2.8 million as at 31 December 2011 2010: US$1.08 million, the majority of which mature within 90 days.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other security over these balances nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Bank deposits RUB 15,695 foreign currencies 629,259 Current bank accounts RUB 2,110 2,120 foreign currencies 11,684 8,884 Other cash and cash equivalents 47 52 Total 658,795 11,056 Bank deposits as at 31 December 2011 bear interest of 3.5% per annum with an average maturity at inception of 90 days.
All US$629 million of deposits held in foreign currencies was held in US Dollars at 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
120 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 24.
Borrowings 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Interest rate Actual rate US$000 US$000 Borrowings at amortised cost Bank loans US$ denominated Otkritie 1m LIBOR 2.75% 3.05% 250,050 Raiffeisenbank 1m LIBOR 3.1% 3.40% 150,000 153,000 Syndicate of Banks 3m LIBOR 3% 3.88% 136,203 127,133 UniCredit bank AG 3m LIBOR 2.75% 3.33% 100,000 100,000 UniCredit bank 3m LIBOR 2.75% 3.33% 100,000 100,000 BSGV 3m LIBOR 2.5% 3.08% 100,000 ING bank Eurasia 3m LIBOR 2.5% 3.08% 66,667 75,000 BNP Paribas 3m LIBOR 2.5% 3.08% 50,000 Sberbank 3m LIBOR 6.5% 6.81% 50,000 Gazprombank 3.5%-4.5% 21,000 HSBC 3m LIBOR 3.5% 3.85% 8,070 RUB denominated HSBC MOSPRIME 3% 6.42% 10,828 Other 14,774 Loans from related parties Note 33 35,401 40,938 Total borrowings 1,003,095 685,969 Less: current borrowings 348,429 90,610 Non-current borrowings 654,666 595,359 The table below summarises maturities of borrowings: Maturing during the Year ended: US$000 31 December 2012 348,429 31 December 2013 244,435 31 December 2014 223,169 31 December 2015 185,012 31 December 2016 2,050 Total 1,003,095 Bank loans As at 31 December 2011, the Group has US$803 million of undrawn funds available under its credit facilities 2010: US$237 million.
The most significant financial covenant in place is that the ratio of net debt to EBITDA must not exceed 3.25.
Otkritie On 6 September 2011 the Group entered into a general master repurchase agreement the GMRA.
Under the GMRA 34,450,357 Polymetal shares representing approximately 8.6% of the issued share capital of JSC Polymetal were transferred to Otkritie Securities Limited in exchange for an aggregate purchase price of US$250 million.
The accounting substance of this arrangement is that it is a securitised loan.
It has been accounted for at amortised cost with interest accrued for.
The treasury shares have accordingly not been shown as sold and these shares are therefore excluded from the calculation of non-controlling interest in the JSC Polymetal Group.
On Repurchase Date the Group has the obligation to repurchase all of the Polymetal Shares transferred under the GMRA for the repurchase price which is calculated as the sum of i the price received for the relevant Polymetal shares: and ii the aggregate amount obtained by daily application of LIBOR 2.75% to the relevant price for the number of days during the period commencing on the relevant transfer date and ending on the Repurchase Date.
Subsequent to the reporting date, the Group accelerated the Repurchase Date and repaid the loan in full on 16 February 2012 in accordance with the terms of the GMRA.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 121 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Borrowings continued BSGV In June 2011, the Group entered into a long-term credit facility with BSGV which allows the Group to borrow funds, denominated in US Dollars, up to US$100.0 million to finance its current operations.
Borrowings under this credit facility are available until May 2014.
The credit facility is repayable in quarterly instalments.
Interest is also payable quarterly.
The repayment of this long-term credit facility is guaranteed with a pledge of revenue under a sales agreement with Rosbank see Note 28.
Following the re-organisation of Joint-Stock Company Banque Societe Generale Vostok BSGV by way of merger with Joint Stock Commercial Bank ROSBANK, the rights of BSGV inured to the benefit of Joint Stock Commercial Bank ROSBANK Open joint-stock company.
BNP Paribas In January 2011, the Group entered into a long-term credit facility with BNP Paribas which allows the Group to borrow funds, denominated in US Dollars, up to US$50.0 million to finance the Groups general corporate purposes and for refinancing of short-term and long-term indebtedness of the Group.
Borrowings under this credit facility are available until February 2015.
The credit facility is repayable in eleven equal quarter instalments starting from July 2012.
The repayment of this long-term loan is guaranteed with a pledge of revenue under a sales agreement with Nomos-Bank see Note 28, a related party.
Raiffeisenbank In October 2010, the Group received a long-term facility from Raiffeisenbank which allows the Group to borrow funds up to US$150 million.
The Group used the funds in part, to refinance long-term credit obtained from Raiffeisenbank in December 2009.
The remainder is being used to finance its current operations.
The loan facility is available until September 2015.
Syndicate of Banks including restructuring on 6 April 2011 Upon the acquisition of JSC Varvarinskoye, the Group assumed a long-term loan of US$85.7 million, payable to a Syndicate of Banks including Investec Bank Ltd, Investec Bank plc, Nedbank Limited and Natixis Bank Syndicate of Banks.
This loan had a carrying amount of US$74.7 million on 6 April 2011.
In addition to the loan described above, the Group assumed obligations for amounts payable for previously realised flat forward gold sales and purchase contracts.
As at 6 April 2011, the Group had not settled its liability under these contracts.
This had a carrying amount of US$50.8 million on 6 April 2011.
For repayment of these two liabilities a cash sweep arrangement was applied to all free cash flows generated from JSC Varvarinskoye.
In accordance with the cash sweep agreement, on each day following the quarter-end, JSC Varvarinskoye shall pay 100% of the amount by which the cash inflow for the quarter exceeds US$5.0 million.
In 2013 and 2014, 35% and 65%, respectively, of the obligation would become due if not previously repaid through the cash sweep arrangement.
In addition the Group had unrealised net derivative liabilities for the forward sale and purchase commitments which were presented separately see Note 28.
This had a carrying amount of US$100.7 million on 6 April 2011.
On 6 April 2011, the Group signed an agreement to restructure its debt obligations and related derivative gold forward sale and purchase contracts the Restructuring.
As a result of this Restructuring, the Groups derivative forward sale and purchase commitments outstanding as at the date of the Restructuring were converted to debt obligations based on the present value of the future net settlement payments of these derivative contracts.
Following a partial immediate repayment of US$14.8 million, the remaining debt obligation held by Three K Exploration and Mining Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, was transferred to JSC Polymetal.
All security arrangements held with the counterparty under the debt obligations and forward sale and purchase agreements, such as pledges of shares and movable and immovable property, plant and equipment, have been foregone as part of this restructuring.
The derivatives were previously recognised at fair value and no gain or loss arose on their conversion to debt.
The amendment to the previous debt obligations did not constitute a significant modification and it continues to be held at their previous carrying value.
These totalled US$226.2 million before and US$211.4 million after the repayment of US$14.8 million.
The carrying value of the new debt arrangement at 6 April 2011 was therefore US$211.4 million, for which the fair value was US$221 million.
The difference will be accreted using the effective interest rate method as an additional interest charge over the term of the loan.
The par value of the debt transferred, net of repayment, was US$230 million.
As of 31 December 2011 the Group repaid US$80.0 million and following schedule was agreed: US$30.0 million in 2013, and US$60.0 million in each of 2014 and 2015.
122 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 UniCredit bank AG incorporated in Great Britain In November 2010, the Group received a long-term loan from UniCredit bank of US$100.0 million to finance its current operations and to refinance other credit facilities.
The loan is repayable in equal instalments on a quarterly basis through November 2015.
The repayment of this long-term loan is partially guaranteed by the pledge of revenue under a sale agreement completed with HSBC Bank see Note 28.
UniCredit bank incorporated in the Russian Federation In November 2010, the Group received a long-term loan from UniCredit bank of US$100.0 million to finance its current operations and to refinance long-term facilities obtained from UniCredit bank in August and September 2009.
The repayment of this long-term loan is guaranteed by the pledge of revenue under a sale agreement completed with HSBC Bank see Note 28.
ING bank Eurasia In December 2010, the Group received a long-term loan from ING Bank Eurasia of US$75.0 million to finance its current operations.
The loan is repayable in nine equal instalments on a quarterly basis through December 2013.
Nomos-Bank In January 2010, the Group received two long-term credit facilities from Nomos-Bank, a related party, which allows the Group to borrow funds, denominated in Euros, up to Euro 6.5 million US$8.7 million as at 31 December 2011 to finance the purchase of equipment for Amursky Hydrometallurgy Plant LLC.
The credit facilities are repayable in ten equal semi-annual instalments over five years starting from April 2011.
In July 2010, the Group received two long-term credit facilities from Nomos-Bank, a related party which allow the Group to borrow funds, denominated in Euro, up to Euro 1.76 million and 1.3 million US$2.6 million and US$1.9 million as at 31 December 2011 to finance the purchase of equipment for Amursky Hydrometallurgy Plant LLC.
Borrowings under these credit facilities are available through to 2016.
The credit facilities are repayable in ten equal semi-annual instalments over five years starting from October and November 2010, respectively.
In September 2010, the Group received an additional long-term credit facility from Nomos-Bank, denominated in Canadian Dollars, up to Canadian Dollar 1.5 million US$1.6 million as at 31 December 2011 to finance the purchase of equipment for Amursky Hydrometallurgy Plant LLC.
Borrowings under this credit facility are available until December 2015.
The credit facility is repayable in ten equal semi-annual instalments over five years starting from December 2010.
In October 2010, the Group received a long-term credit facility from Nomos-Bank, denominated in Canadian Dollars up to Canadian Dollar 0.85 million US$0.88 million as at 31 December 2011 to finance the purchase of equipment for Amursky Hydrometallurgy Plant LLC.
The credit facility is repayable in ten equal semi-annual instalments starting from December 2010.
In addition the Group has certain undrawn facilities at 31 December 2011, including: VTB, HSBC, Gazprombank, Alfabank Note 30.
Gazprombank In February 2010, the Group entered into a long-term credit facility with Gazprombank which allows the Group to borrow funds, denominated in Russian Roubles or US Dollars, up to US$74.8 million Russian Rouble 2.1 billion as at 31 December 2011 to finance its current operations.
Borrowings under this credit facility were available until December 2011 and were settled in full at that date.
The repayment term is established separately for each loan received from the credit facility at the time of the draw-down date.
Each loan received from the credit facility must be repaid within twelve months of the draw-down.
Interest is payable monthly, based on a fixed rate determined by Gazprombank for each tranche but not to exceed 14% annually for funds borrowed in Russian Roubles and 9% for funds borrowed in US Dollars.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 123 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Finance lease liabilities In April 2009 the Group entered into finance sale and leaseback agreement, denominated in Russian Roubles, with NomosLeasing, a related party.
The Group leased certain of its machinery, equipment and transport vehicles.
The lease term of finance lease was until July 2012.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
The implicit interest rate of underlying obligation under finance lease is fixed at 24.25% per annum.
Future minimum lease payments for the assets under finance leases are as follows: 31 December 2010 Current portion 4,819 Non-current portion Present value of minimum payments 4,819 Interest payable over the term of lease 81 Total future minimum lease payments 4,900 The Group proposed to the lessor to purchase the leased property and settle its leasing liabilities prior to the maturity dates.
Accordingly, the total amount of leasing obligations is classified as current as of 31 December 2010.
The purchase was completed in January 2011 for the amount of US$4.9 million including leasing liability of US$4.8 million and interest of US$0.1 million.
Environmental obligations Environmental obligations include decommissioning and land restoration costs and are recognised on the basis of existing project business plans as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Opening balance 45,156 32,487 Changes in the year: Decommissioning liabilities 5,876 7,836 Rehabilitation liabilities 3,583 2,862 Unwinding of discount 3,328 2,412 Amounts paid 213 161 Translation effect 3,267 280 Closing Balance 54,463 45,156 The principal assumptions used for the estimation of environmental obligations were as follows: 2011 2010 Discount rates 3.9%-7.28% 3.7%-9.4% Inflation rates 5%-7.18% 3.9%-7.9% Expected mine closure dates 1-23 years 1-24 years The expected timings for the settlement of environmental obligations are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Within one year 424 256 Due from second to fifth year 11,436 9,141 Due from sixth to tenth year 30,339 25,362 Due from eleventh to fifteenth year 3,687 5,834 Due from sixteenth to twentieth year 3,309 Due thereafter 5,268 4,563 Total 54,463 45,156 The Group does not hold any assets that are legally restricted for purposes of settling environmental obligations.
124 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 27.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 61,219 54,217 Labour liabilities 10,049 7,273 Other payables 8,280 5,538 Total 79,548 67,028 In 2011, the average credit period for payables was 51 days 2010: 57 days.
There was no interest charged on the outstanding payables balance during the credit period.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place, which include budgeting and analysis of cash flows and payments schedules to ensure that all amounts payable are settled within the credit period.
Commitments and contingencies Commitments Capital commitments The Groups budgeted capital expenditures commitments as at 31 December 2011 amounted to US$42.7 million 2010: US$55.2 million.
Operating leases: Group as a lessee The land in the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan on which the Groups production facilities are located is owned by the state.
The Group leases this land through operating lease agreements, which expire in various years through 2058.
Future minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating lease agreements at the end of the period were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Due within one year 1,758 2,148 From one to five years 3,065 2,791 Thereafter 1,594 1,469 Total 6,417 6,408 Forward sales commitments Under the sale agreements with Nomos-Bank, the Companys subsidiary, JSC Okhotskaya GGC are required to sell 45,000 ounces of gold and 3,350,000 ounces of silver during 2012 at a price determined by London Bullion Market Association LBMA.
Under the sale agreement with Rosbank, the Companys subsidiary, CJSC Zoloto Severnogo Urala is required to sell 39,000 ounces of gold during 2012: 48,000 ounces of gold during 2013: 19,000 ounces of gold during 2014 at a price determined by LBMA.
Under the sale agreement with Sberbank, the Companys subsidiary, CJSC Zoloto Severnogo Urala is required to sell 64,000 ounces of gold during 2012 at a price determined by LBMA.
Under the sale agreements with Gazprombank, the Companys subsidiaries, JSC Omolon Gold Mining Company and JSC Okhotskaya GGC are required to sell 36,000 ounces of gold till 28 February 2012 at a price determined by LBMA.
Under the sale agreement with Trafigura Beheer B. V. the Companys subsidiary, JSC Varvarinskoe is required to sell 17,000 ounces of gold during 2012 at a price determined by LBMA and 4,488,000 tonnes of copper concentrate during 2012 at a price determined by the London Metal Exchange LME and adjusted for further processing costs.
Under the sale agreement with Glencore, the Companys subsidiary, JSC Varvarinskoe is required to sell 9,000 ounces of gold during 2012 at a price determined by LBMA and 2,448,000 tonnes of copper concentrate during 2012 at a price determined by LME and adjusted for further processing costs.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 125 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Commitments and contingencies continued Contingencies Taxation Russian tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations, and changes, which can occur frequently.
Managements interpretation of such legislation as applied to the transactions and activity of the companies of the Group may be challenged by the relevant regional and federal authorities.
Recent events within the Russian Federation suggest that the tax authorities may be taking a more assertive position in their interpretation of the legislation and assessments.
As a result, significant additional taxes, penalties and interest may be assessed.
Fiscal periods remain open to review by the authorities in respect of taxes for three calendar years preceding the year of review.
Under certain circumstances reviews may cover longer periods.
With regards to matters where practice concerning payment of taxes is unclear, management estimated the tax exposure at 31 December 2011 to be approximately US$46.7 million 2010: US$38.8 million including the CJSC Serebro Magadana tax litigation described below.
This amount had not been accrued at 31 December 2011 as management does not believe the payment to be probable.
Transfer pricing legislation, which was introduced from 1 January 1999, provides the possibility for tax authorities to make transfer pricing adjustments and impose additional tax liabilities in respect of all controlled transactions, provided that the transaction price differs from the market price by more than 20%.
Controllable transactions include transactions with interdependent parties, as determined under the Russian Tax Code, and all cross-border transactions irrespective whether performed between related or unrelated parties, where the price applied by a taxpayer differs by more than 20% from the price applied in similar transactions by the same taxpayer within a short period of time, and barter transactions.
There is no formal guidance as to how these rules should be applied in practice.
Arbitration court practice in this respect is contradictory and inconsistent.
The Groups subsidiaries regularly enter into controllable transactions e. g. intercompany transactions and based on the transaction terms the Russian tax authorities may qualify them as non-market.
Tax liabilities arising from intercompany transactions are determined using actual transaction prices.
It is possible with the evolution of the interpretation of the transfer pricing rules in the Russian Federation and the changes in the approach of the Russian tax authorities, that such transfer prices could potentially be challenged in the future.
Given the brief nature of the current Russian transfer pricing rules, the impact of any such challenge cannot be reliably estimated although it may be significant.
Litigation During the respective periods, the Group was involved in a number of court proceedings both as a plaintiff and as a defendant arising in the ordinary course of business.
During 2009 a field tax audit was performed in relation to CJSC Serebro Magadana with respect to all taxes, duties and contributions to social funds for the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007 including CJSC Serebro Territorii as a legal predecessor.
As a result of this audit, the tax authorities issued Decision #12-13 23 dated 31 March 2009.
The most significant issues were the alleged understatement of profits tax by US$18.4 million including interest and penalties and the understatement of mineral extraction tax by US$4.4 million including interest and penalties owing to the potential application of transfer pricing rules in respect of export transactions with ABN AMRO Bank N. V. The tax authorities challenged the prices applied by CJSC Serebro Magadana previously CJSC Serebro Territorii owing to their deviation by more than 20% from London Stock Exchange fixings and accounting prices set by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation.
This deviation was caused by signing a flat forward sales contract with Standard Bank of London that provided for fixed prices that were agreed by CJSC Serebro Territorii in 2004.
CJSC Serebro Territorii supplied silver to ABN AMRO Bank N. V. in 2007 in accordance with its obligations under the contract and at the fixed priced stipulated in the contract.
In 2004 the negotiated fixed prices were consistent with market prices.
However, due to a significant increase in the price of silver in the intervening period, by 2007 the contract price was much lower than the London Metal Exchange price.
CJSC Serebro Magadana appealed against this Decision in the arbitration court and has been successful in the latest appeal.
The Directors believe that CJSC Serebro Magadana should win any new challenge based on its argument that it was bound by the contractual obligations and had sound business reasons to apply such prices.
In the opinion of management of the Group, there are no current legal proceedings or other claims outstanding, which could have a material effect on the result of operations, financial position or cash flows of the Group and which have not been accrued or disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.
126 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 29.
Fair value accounting The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable as follows: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
At 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 the Group held the following financial instruments: 31 December 2011 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Receivables from provisional copper, gold and silver concentrate sales 37,609 37,609 Contingent consideration liabilities 22,290 22,290 37,609 22,290 15,319 31 December 2010 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Receivables from provisional copper, gold and silver concentrate sales 19,011 19,011 Derivatives 105,437 105,437 Contingent consideration liabilities 23,754 23,754 86,426 23,754 110,180 During the reporting periods, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2.
Receivables from provisional copper, gold and silver concentrate sales The fair value of receivables arising from copper, gold and silver concentrate sales contracts that contain provisional pricing mechanisms is determined using the appropriate quoted forward price from the exchange that is the principal active market for the particular metal.
As such, these receivables are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Derivatives The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined using either present value techniques or option pricing models that utilise a variety of inputs that are a combination of quoted prices and market-corroborated inputs.
The fair value of the Groups derivative contracts is adjusted for the Groups credit risk based upon the observed credit default swap spread as appropriate.
The Group closed the open derivative positions at 6 April 2011 as part of the Restructuring as described in Note 24.
The table below sets forth a summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups Level 2 financial liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2011: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Opening balance 105,437 149,514 Change in fair value, included in profit or loss 1,855 909 Settlement 107,292 44,986 Closing Balance 105,437 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 127 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Fair value accounting continued Commodity forward contracts Except for the forward sales contracts entered by JSC Varvarinskoye, other Groups forward sales contracts see Note 28 qualify for the normal purchase sales or own use exemption.
Prior to their Restructuring in April 2011, the fair value of Varvarinskoye commodity forward contracts was determined by discounting contractual cash flows using a discount rate derived from observed US Treasury yield curve rates.
Contractual cash flows were calculated using a forward pricing curve derived from market forward prices for each commodity.
The commodity forward contracts were classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Contingent consideration liabilities In 2008, the Group recorded a contingent consideration liability related to the acquisition of 98.1% of the shares in JSC Omolon Gold Mining Company Omolon.
The fair value of the contingent consideration liability was determined using a valuation model which simulates expected production of gold and silver at the Kubaka mine and future gold and silver prices to estimate future revenues of Omolon.
This liability is revalued at each reporting date based on 2% of the life of mine revenues with the resulting gain or loss recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The liability recognised at 31 December 2011 was US$22.3 million 2010: US$18.3 million.
In 2009, the Group recorded a contingent consideration liability related to the acquisition of 100% of shares in JSC Varvarinskoye in Kazakhstan.
The fair value of the contingent consideration liability was determined using a valuation model which simulates expected future prices of gold, silver and copper against the gold strike price applied pursuant to the terms of the gold forward purchase contracts entered into see Note 25 and the copper price as published by the LME as at the date when the gold forward purchase contracts described above were entered into.
The liability recognised at 31 December 2010 was US$5.5 million and was fully settled in July 2011.
The contingent consideration liability is classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
The table below sets forth a summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups Level 3 financial liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2011: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Opening balance 23,754 21,775 Change in fair value, included in profit or loss 6,828 3,616 Translation effect 1,349 137 Settlement 6,943 1,500 Total 22,290 23,754 The Directors consider that a change in a reasonably possible valuation assumption used would not have a material effect on the Group.
Risk management activities Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The Groups overall strategy remains from prior years.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt borrowings as detailed in Note 24 offset by cash and bank balances as detailed in Note 23 and equity of the Group comprising the Stated Capital account, reserves and retained earnings as detailed in Note 31.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The Groups Board reviews the capital structure of the Group on a semi-annual basis.
As part of this review, the Board considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
128 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Major categories of financial instruments The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise borrowings, derivatives, finance lease liabilities, trade and other payables.
The Group has various financial assets such as accounts receivable, loans advanced and cash and cash equivalents.
31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Receivables from provisional copper, gold and silver concentrate sales 37,609 19,011 Loans and receivables, including cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents 658,795 11,056 Trade and other receivable 30,382 24,672 Non-current loans to related parties 8,962 5,187 Total financial assets 735,748 59,926 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivatives 105,437 Contingent consideration liability 22,290 23,754 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Share purchase obligation under MTO 534,597 Current and non-current borrowings 1,003,095 685,969 Finance lease liabilities 4,819 Trade and other payables 62,738 55,118 Total financial liabilities 1,622,720 875,097 Trade and other payables exclude employee benefits and social security.
The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, share purchase obligation, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and short-term debt recorded at amortised cost approximate to their fair values because of the short maturities of these instruments.
The estimated fair value of the Groups long-term debt, calculated using the market interest rate available to the Group as at 31 December 2011, is US$591.8 million, and the carrying value as at 31 December 2011 is US$654.6 million see Note 24.
Carrying values of the other long-term loans provided to related parties as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 approximated to their fair values.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are foreign currency and commodity price risk, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks.
At the end of the reporting period, there are no significant concentrations of credit risk for receivables designated at FVTPL.
The carrying amount reflected above represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk for such receivables.
Derivative financial instruments Presented below is a summary of the Groups derivative contracts recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value.
Consolidated 31 December 31 December balance sheet 2011 2010 location US$000 US$000 Flat forward gold sales and purchase contracts Derivatives 105,437 Receivable from provisional copper, gold and silver concentrate sales Accounts receivable 37,609 19,011 Year ended Year ended Location of gain 31 December 31 December loss recorded 2011 2010 in profit or loss US$000 US$000 Change in fair value Flat forward gold sales and purchase contracts of derivatives 1,855 909 Receivable from provisional copper, gold and silver concentrate sales Revenue 5,979 1,660 The Group closed out the open derivative positions on 6 April 2011 as part of the Restructuring as described in Note 24.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 129 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Risk management activities continued Foreign currency and commodity price risk In the normal course of business the Group enters into transactions for the sale of its commodities, denominated in US Dollars.
In addition, the Group has assets and liabilities in a number of different currencies primarily Russian Rouble and Kazakh Tenge.
As a result, the Group is subject to transaction and translation exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group does not use derivative instruments to currently hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
The carrying amounts of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies other than functional currencies of the individual Group entities at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 were as follows: Assets Liabilities 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US Dollar 681,023 28,206 973,395 791,779 Euro 274 27 49,524 44,585 GBP 5,604 375 Total 686,901 28,233 1,023,294 836,364 Currency risk is monitored on a monthly basis by performing a sensitivity analysis of foreign currency positions in order to verify that potential losses are at an acceptable level.
The table below details the Groups sensitivity to changes of exchange rates by 10% which is the sensitivity rate used by the Group for internal analysis.
The analysis was applied to monetary items denominated in respective currencies at the reporting dates.
31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Profit or loss RUB to US Dollar 34,790 55,438 Profit or loss RUB to Euro 6,964 4,471 Profit or loss RUB to GBP 882 Profit or loss KZT to US Dollar 2,518 21,114 Forward sales and purchase contracts As at 31 December 2010, the Group held the following derivative financial instruments which were subsequently closed out on 6 April 2011 as part of the Restructuring as described in Note 24.
A flat forward gold sales contract was assumed on the acquisition of JSC Varvarinskoye in October 2009.
On the same date the Group entered into an offsetting flat forward gold purchase contract with the same notional amount and monthly settlement dates as the aforementioned flat forward gold sales contract.
The gold forward purchase contract economically locks in the losses on the existing flat forward gold sales contract.
The contracts have total notional amounts of 320,160 ounces of gold: fixed forward sales price of US$574.25 per ounce and fixed forward purchase price of US$1,129.65 per ounce: and monthly settlement dates between November 2009 and April 2014.
The Group was liable to pay a net settlement amount on each delivery date.
If any settlement were not paid on its applicable delivery date, such settlement amount would accrue interest at 3 months LIBOR plus 3% and shall be payable on 31 December 2013 35% of the total and all interest accrued thereon to date and on 31 December 2014 the full balance of the settlement amount and all interest accrued thereon to date.
In addition, a cash sweep mechanism applied to all free cash flows generated by Varvarinskoye until all the obligations were fully repaid.
As at 6 April 2011 and 31 December 2010 net settlement amounts of US$50.8 million and US$50.9 million, respectively, have not been paid and were recorded in the Non-current borrowings line of the balance sheet see Note 24.
These contracts had not been designated as hedging instruments.
Changes in the fair value were recorded as part of gain loss on financial instruments in the consolidated income statement.
As the Group has legally enforceable master netting agreements with counterparties and intends to settle the contracts on a net basis, the flat forward gold sales and purchase contracts are presented net in the balance sheet as derivatives.
During the period ended 6 April 2011, the Group settled derivative contracts resulting in realised derivative losses of US$1.9 million 2010: loss of US$0.9 million.
130 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Provisionally priced sales Under a long-established practice prevalent in the industry, copper, gold and silver concentrate sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment.
The provisional prices are finalised in a contractually specified future period generally one to three months primarily based on quoted LBMA or LME prices.
Sales subject to final pricing are generally settled in a subsequent month.
The forward price is a major determinant of recorded revenue.
LME copper price has averaged US$8,820 per tonne since January 2011 compared with the Groups recorded average provisional price of US$8,629 per tonne.
The applicable forward copper price at 31 December 2011 was US$7,592 per tonne.
During the year 2011 decreasing copper prices resulted in a provisional pricing mark-to-market loss of US$0.4 million included in revenue.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had copper sales of 3,067 tonnes priced at an average of US$7,682 per tonne, subject to final pricing in the first quarter of 2012.
LBMA gold price averaged US$1,572 per ounce since January 2011 compared with the Groups recorded average provisional price of US$1,581 per ounce.
The applicable forward gold price at 31 December 2011 was US$1,525 per ounce.
During the third quarter 2011 decreasing gold prices resulted in a provisional pricing mark-to-market loss of US$1.2 million included in revenue.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had gold sales of 67,751 ounces priced at an average of US$1,667 per ounce, subject to final pricing in the first quarter of 2012.
LBMA silver price averaged US$35.30 per ounce since January 2011 compared with the Groups recorded average provisional price of US$38.50 per ounce.
The applicable forward silver price at 31 December 2011 was US$30.50 per ounce.
During the third quarter 2011 decreasing silver prices resulted in a provisional pricing mark-to-market loss of US$4.3 million included in revenue.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had silver sales of 972,092 ounces priced at an average of US$29.4 per ounce, subject to final pricing in the first quarter of 2012.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
The risk is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings.
The Group does not currently hedge its exposure to interest rate risk.
The Groups exposure to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section of this note.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of the liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period was outstanding for the whole period.
A 100 basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the year ended 31 December 2011 would decrease or increase by US$6.5 million 2010: US$6.9 million.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
The Groups sensitivity to interest rates has increased during the current period mainly due to the increase in variable rate debt instruments.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a customer may default or not meet its obligations to the Group on a timely basis, leading to financial losses to the Group.
The Groups financial instruments that are potentially exposed to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and loans and receivables.
Accounts receivable are regularly monitored and assessed and where necessary an adequate level of provision is maintained.
Trade accounts receivable at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are represented by provisional copper, gold and silver concentrate sales transactions.
A significant portion of the Groups trade accounts receivable is due from reputable export trading companies.
With regard to other loans and receivables the procedures of accepting a new customer include checks by a security department and responsible on-site management for business reputation, licences and certification, creditworthiness and liquidity.
Generally, the Group does not require any collateral to be pledged in connection with its investments in the above financial instruments.
Credit limits for the Group as a whole are not set up.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The major financial assets at the balance sheet date other than trade accounts receivable presented in Note 22 are cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2011 of US$659 million 2010: US$11 million.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 131 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Risk management activities continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to settle all liabilities as they are due.
The Groups liquidity position is carefully monitored and managed.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining detailed budgeting, cash forecasting processes and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities to help ensure that it has adequate cash available to meet its payment obligations.
The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial liabilities with agreed repayment periods.
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
The tables include both interest and principal cash flows.
To the extent that interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at the end of the reporting period.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the Group may be required to pay.
Stated Capital Account and Retained Earnings The Company was incorporated in Jersey on 29 July 2010 as a public no par value company with limited liability under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 for the purpose of becoming the new holding company of JSC Polymetal.
On incorporation, the number of shares that the Company was authorised to issue pursuant to its memorandum of association was an unlimited number of shares.
Two shares were issued on incorporation at a price of US$1 per share.
One of these subscriber shares referred to above was transferred to Metal One Limited a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands on 12 August 2010.
On 13 August 2010, the Company issued a further 9,998 shares to Metal One Limited at a price of US$1 per share.
These shares, which were unpaid, were redeemed on completion of the IPO.
On 30 September 2011, PMTL, the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, made an offer known as the Institutional Share Swap Facility or the ISSF to certain institutional shareholders of JSC Polymetal to acquire their Polymetal Shares and Polymetal GDRs.
The consideration under the ISSF is the issue of new shares in the Company in exchange for Polymetal shares on a one for one basis.
Under the ISSF, which completed simultaneously with the IPO on 2 November 2011, 332,641,773 new shares in the Company were issued.
On 2 November 2011, the Company successfully completed its IPO.
53,350,000 shares with no par value were issued at a price of 920 pence US$14.74 per share.
The net proceeds raised were US$762.6 million.
As part of the price stabilisation provisions, 3,305,988 of the new shares were repurchased at a cost of US$46.6 million and cancelled by the Company in the five week period following the IPO.
The total transaction costs incurred were US$33.7 million.
US$24.2 million of the transaction costs were attributable to the issue of new equity and have been deducted against the Stated capital account, while US$9.5 million were attributable to the expenses associated with the above noted restructuring.
Joint transaction costs were allocated based on the ratio of new shares issued, in relation to total shares outstanding.
132 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 As at 31 December 2011, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 382,685,785 ordinary shares of no par value, each carrying one vote.
The Company does not hold any ordinary shares in treasury.
The ordinary shares reflect 100% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
The movements in the Stated Capital account in the year were as follows: Stated Capital Treasury Stated Capital Account, shares Total Account no.
of shares US$000 Balance at 31 December 2010 n a 865,483 Issue of treasury shares in JSC Polymetal in exchange for assets 66,966 Amortisation of bonus received from depository 819 Issuance of ordinary shares under ISSF 332,641,773 332,641,773 Issuance of shares on IPO 53,350,000 53,350,000 762,641 Repurchased shares 3,305,988 3,305,988 46,649 Cancellation of repurchased shares 3,305,988 3,305,988 Non-controlling interest arising on restructuring 82,874 Balance at 31 December 2011 382,685,785 382,685,785 1,566,386 Retained earnings Reserves available for distribution to shareholders are based on the statutory historical financial information of the Company as a standalone entity, which are prepared in accordance with Russian accounting standards and which differ significantly from IFRS.
Russian legislation identifies the basis of distribution as accumulated profit.
However, current legislation and other statutory regulations dealing with distribution rights are open to legal interpretation: consequently, actual distributable reserves may differ from the amount of accumulated profit under Russian statutory accounting rules.
Weighted average number of shares: Diluted earnings per share The Group had potentially dilutive securities, namely the Groups equity-settled share appreciation plan, which was established during 2010 see Note 32.
Basic and dilutive earnings per share were calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of outstanding common shares before and after dilution respectively.
The calculation of the weighted average number of outstanding common shares after dilution is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Weighted average number of outstanding common shares 366,969,369 358,732,335 Dilutive effect of share appreciation plan 25,875,610 3,140,220 Weighted average number of outstanding common shares after dilution 392,844,979 361,872,555 There were no adjustments required to earnings for the purposes of calculating dilutive Earnings per share in the current year 2010: nil.
The dilutive effect of equity-settled share appreciation rights has been calculated using the treasury stock method.
Share-based payments In 2010, the Group established an equity incentive plan the Plan for executive directors and senior employees of the Group in which the grant of equity-settled share appreciation rights up to 30 million shares in JSC Polymetal the Bonus Fund was approved.
The number of awards to which a qualifying participant is entitled was determined by the board of JSC Polymetal on 8 November 2010.
Group management believes that such awards better align the interests of its employees with those of its shareholders.
Under the terms of the plan these awards were eligible for immediate vesting on the Group restructuring and listing.
However, the executive Director and senior managers waived that right and the entitlement to JSC Polymetal shares was exchanged for an entitlement to Polymetal International shares on a one to one basis with the same vesting conditions as existed previously.
As the cancellation and reissuance of the awards was done solely to preserve the existing rights of the award holders, no accelerated share based charge has been recognised.
The aggregate number of shares comprising the Bonus Fund will be determined on 11 June 2013 and will depend on the excess of the weighted average price of the Companys shares during the period between 11 March 2013 and 11 June 2013 over an established price of US$16.74.
Equity-settled stock appreciation rights granted have an exercise price of 1 penny, vest at the end of a 2.6 year service period and are exercisable on the vesting day in one year from the vesting date.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 133 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Share-based payments continued The fair value of the awards granted during the year ended 31 December 2010, was estimated using a two stage Monte-Carlo model.
The fair value is then amortised on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period.
Use of two-stage Monte-Carlo option pricing requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs.
The following assumptions were used to determine the grant date fair value: Expected forfeitures.
This assumption is estimated using historical trends of executive director and employee turnover.
As the Group typically only grants awards to senior employees and the turnover rate for such employees is minimal, the Group has estimated expected forfeitures to be 5%.
Estimated forfeitures are adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ or are expected to differ from such estimates.
Changes in estimated forfeitures are recognised in the period of change and impact the amount of expense to be recognised in future periods.
Expected volatility has been estimated based on an analysis of the historical stock price volatility of the Companys GDRs from February 2007, when the JSC Polymetal GDRs became publicly traded.
The average expected life was based on the contractual term of the option of 3.6 years.
As the Plan has a 2.6 year vesting condition and the participant may exercise their right to redeem shares within one year after vesting occurs and such right is obtained, the Group used the 2.6 years expected term for the first stage of the Monte-Carlo simulation the First date and 3.6 for the second stage the Second date.
Fair value of common stock is equal to the market price of underlying GDRs at the grant date.
The risk-free rate is based on US Treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant.
At the grant date, the Group had not historically declared dividends and management believed the Company would not declare a dividend over the life of the option.
Risk free rate 0.79% for the First date, 1.24% for the Second date Expected dividend yield Nil Expected volatility 40% Expected life, years 2.6 for the First date, 3.6 for the Second date Fair value per share, US Dollars 16.97 A summary of option activity under the Plan for the year ended 31 December 2011 is presented below: Weighted average Weighted average exercise price fair value of awards Weighted average Awards per share per share remaining number US$ US$ Years Awards at 1 January 2011 29,917,460 0.03 4.96 3.45 Forfeited 577,778 0.03 4.96 Non-vested awards at 31 December 2011 29,339,682 0.03 4.96 2.45 None of the share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2011 were exercisable as they are not fully vested.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, share-based compensation in the amount of US$57 million, 2010: US$7.9 million was recognised in general, administrative and selling expenses in the consolidated income statement see Note 11.
As at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, the Group had US$75.7 million and US$136 million, respectively of unrecognised share-based compensation expense related to non-vested equity-settled stock appreciated rights with a weighted average expected amortisation period of 2.45 years and 3.45 years, respectively.
134 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 33.
Related parties Related parties are considered to include shareholders, affiliates, associates, joint ventures and entities under common ownership and control with the Group and members of key management personnel.
In the course of its business the Group entered into various transactions with Nomos-Bank an entity in which Alexander Nesis, a significant shareholder of the Company Note 1, also holds a substantial interest, equity method investments and its employees and officers as follows: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $000 $000 Interest expense on loans provided by Nomos-Bank 2,339 1,886 Revenue from sales to Nomos-Bank 258,794 315,405 Other income from entities under common control 1,559 Lease payments to Nomos Leasing 5,082 4,819 Outstanding balances are presented below: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Short-term loans provided to equity method investments 315 Long-term loans provided to equity method investments 6,303 3,455 Short-term loans provided to entity under common control 1,522 Total loans provided to related parties 8,140 3,455 Short-term loans provided by Nomos-Bank 8,318 14,379 Long-term loans provided by Nomos-Bank 25,223 24,820 Long-term loans provided by equity method investments 1,860 1,739 Total loans provided by related parties 35,401 40,938 Capital lease liabilities to Nomos Leasing 4,819 Other accounts receivable from related parties 2,940 175 Interest receivable from Nomos-Bank 1,573 Carrying values of other long-term loans provided to related parties as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 approximate their fair values.
Details of the significant terms of the loans provided by related parties are disclosed in Note 24.
As at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, the Group has certain forward sales commitments to related parties see Note 28.
The amounts outstanding at the balance sheet dates are unsecured and expected to be settled in cash.
No expense has been recognised in the reporting period for bad or doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
All trade payable and receivable balances are expected to be settled on a gross basis.
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel during the periods was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Share-based payments 28,901 4,264 Short-term benefits of Board members 2,278 982 Short-term employee benefits 1,779 844 Post-employment benefits 70 18 Benefits of Board members include the remuneration of the Board members of JSC Polymetal.
The remuneration of Directors and key executives is determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market trends.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 135 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Notes to the consolidated statements of cash flows Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Notes US$000 US$000 Profit before tax 408,847 306,430 Adjustments for: Depreciation expense 96,654 70,334 Write-down of exploration assets 17 13,263 Write-down of inventory to net realisable value 7 6,232 15,319 Share-based compensation 11, 32 57,116 7,896 Finance costs 15 28,746 21,541 Finance income 4,208 785 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 12 6,203 6,296 Change in fair value of contingent consideration liability 29 6,828 3,616 Change in allowance for doubtful debts 12 1,171 2,333 Loss from equity method investments 19 1,952 1,170 Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 29 1,855 909 Foreign exchange losses 13,634 337 Gain on disposal of subsidiary 4 4,931 3,580 Other non-cash expenses 1,388 1,840 Movements in working capital Increase in inventories 222,889 86,424 Increase in VAT receivable 22,766 10,491 Increase in trade and other receivables 19,556 32,023 Increase in prepayments to suppliers 11,437 13,296 Increase in trade and other payables 6,394 19,899 Increase in other taxes payable 8,676 4,821 Cash generated from operations 370,830 312,462 Interest paid 32,414 16,991 Income tax paid 126,317 80,256 Net cash generated by operating activities 212,099 215,215 Additions to property, plant and equipment of US$16.9 million and US$4.8 million during the year ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, respectively were acquired on deferred payment terms.
Other non-cash transactions during the year ended 31 December 2011 included the issuance of US$67.0 million of treasury shares for the acquisition of assets in 2011.
Subsequent events On 7 February 2012 the Company completed the acquisition from AngloGold Ashanti Holdings PLC AngloGold of AngloGolds 50% interest in various companies the Companies held in joint venture with Polymetal comprising the AngloGold Ashanti Polymetal Strategic Alliance the Alliance.
The Companies include Amikan Holding Limited, which owns the Veduga gold deposit in the Krasnoyarsk region of the Russian Federation.
The consideration for the acquisition, including the repayment of all shareholder loans made by AngloGold to the Companies, was US$20 million, paid in cash.
The Groups existing 50% investment had a carrying value of US$12.4 million along with a loan asset of US$6.3 million.
The Group intends to introduce a new joint venture partner in 2012 and as such the asset acquired is considered held for sale under the definitions within IFRS 5.
On 17 February 2012 the Company executed the Mandatory Tender Offer, made on 23 November 2011 the MTO at a cost of US$538 million.
As a result the Companys holding in JSC Polymetal has increased to 397,287,592 Ordinary Shares, representing approximately 99.48% of the total share capital of JSC Polymetal.
The Company intends to exercise its right to proceed with a statutory squeeze out i. e. purchase of the remaining JSC Polymetal shares on terms and within the period as provided under applicable Russian law.
As set out in Note 24, on 31 August 2012 the Repurchase Date Polymetal ESOP Limited would have been obligated to repurchase all of the JSC Polymetal shares transferred under the General Master Repurchase Agreement the GMRA for the repurchase price which is calculated as the sum of i the price received for the relevant Polymetal shares: and ii the aggregate amount obtained by daily application of LIBOR 2.75% to the relevant price for the number of days during the period commencing on the relevant transfer date and ending on the Repurchase Date.
On 16 February 2012, Polymetal ESOP Limited accelerated the Repurchase Date under the GMRA and settled its obligations under the GMRA in full for US$250 million.
A final dividend has been proposed in relation to the year of 20 cents per share 2010: nil giving a total expected dividend of US$76.5 million 2010: nil.
This is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has therefore not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
136 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011
