Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 84 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors confirm that they have complied with the Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DtR 4 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual aboverequirements in preparing the financial statements.
Each of the Directors, as listed on pages 62 and 63, confirms Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the that, to the best of his or her knowledge: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting FinancialStatements in accordance with applicable laws records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys a the consolidated financial statements in this report, which andregulations.
Under that law the Directors have prepared transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any have been prepared in accordance with, International theconsolidated financial statements and Annual Report in time the financial position of the Company and the Group Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards andto enable them to ensure that the financial statements EU, IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and the and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated and the Company financial statements in this report which Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Under financial statements, article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP give a company law the Directors must not approve the financial also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and andfair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
b the management report contained in this Annual Report The 2011 financial statements will be published on the includes a fair review of the development and performance In preparing these financial statements the Directors are Companys website in addition to the paper version.
of the business and the position of the Company and the required to: TheDirectors are responsible for the maintenance and Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply integrity ofthe electronic version of the financial statements principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
themconsistently: tothe same extent as for the paper version.
Legislation intheUnitedKingdom governing the preparation and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable disseminationof financial statements may differ from andprudent: legislation in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out bytheAuditors does not include consideration of the state that the consolidated financial statements comply with maintenance and integrity of the website.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial statements comply with UK GAAP: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
