130 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 8.
Share capital continued The rights and restrictions attached to the Ordinary Shares are as follows: Dividend rights: the rights of the holders of Ordinary Shares shall rank pari passu in all respects with each other in relation to dividends.
Winding up or reduction of capital: on a return of capital on a winding up or otherwise other than on conversion, Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued redemption or purchase of shares the rights of the holders of Ordinary Shares to participate in the distribution of the assets For the year ended 31 December 2010 of the company available for distribution shall rank pari passu in all respects with each other.
Voting rights: the holders of Ordinary Shares shall be entitled to receive notice of, attend, vote and speak at any General Meeting of the company.
Share-based payments and share incentive plans The group currently operates a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP for all employees and a Share Incentive Plan and a Save As You Earn Scheme for UK-based and expatriate employees only.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, the total cost recognised by the company for equity-settled share-based payment transactions was US$15.5 million 2010: US$18.0 million.
A credit of US$34.6 million has been recorded in the profit and loss reserve 2010: US$52.7 million for all equity-settled payments of the group.
Like other elements of remuneration, this charge is processed through the time-writing system which allocates cost, based on time spent by individuals, to various entities within the Premier Oil plc group.
Part of this cost is therefore capitalised as directly attributable to capital projects and part is charged to the profit and loss account as operating costs, pre-licence exploration costs or general and administration costs.
Details of the different share incentive plans currently in operation are set out below: i Long Term Incentive Plan The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was introduced in 2009 to provide a long-term all employee scheme which motivates all employees and provides a longer-term perspective to the total remuneration package.
Awards under the LTIP comprise three elements: Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards that vest after the expiry of a three-year performance period, and a potential Matching Award that vests at the expiry of a further three-year performance period, commencing at the end of the three-year performance period for Equity Pool and Performance Share Awards.
Full details about this plan have been provided in the Remuneration Report.
The company uses a Monte Carlo simulation model to calculate the value of the Equity bonus pool of the plan and of the Performance Share Awards.
The main assumptions used for the calculations are as follows: Volatility: 40.0% to 41.0% Risk free rate of interest: 2.9% to 3.7% Correlation factor with comparator group: 0.29 to 0.32 ii Share Incentive Plan Under the Share Incentive Plan employees are invited to make contributions to buy Partnership Shares.
If an employee agrees to buy Partnership Shares the company currently matches the number of Partnership Shares bought with an award of shares Matching Shares, on a one-for-one basis.
