Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 85 Basis of consolidation continued Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by other members of the group.
All significant inter-company transactions and balances between group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Interest in joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Where a group company undertakes its activities under joint venture arrangements directly, the groups shares of jointly controlled assets and any liabilities incurred jointly with other venturers are recognised in the financial statements of the relevant company and classified according to their nature.
Liabilities and expenses incurred directly in respect of interests in jointly controlled assets are accounted for on an accrual basis.
Income from the sale or use of the groups share of the output of jointly controlled assets, and its share of joint venture expenses, are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transactions will flow to from the group and their amount can be measured reliably.
Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
The group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using proportionate consolidation the groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of jointly controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Where the group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the joint venture.
Sales revenue and other income Sales of petroleum production are recognised when goods are delivered or the title has passed to the customer.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Oil and gas assets The company applies the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation E&E costs, having regard to the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
a Exploration and evaluation assets Under the successful efforts method of accounting, all licence acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised in well, field or specific exploration cost centres as appropriate, pending determination.
Expenditure incurred during the various exploration and appraisal phases is then written off unless commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed.
Pre-licence costs Costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore an area are expensed directly to the income statement as they are incurred.
Exploration and evaluation costs Costs of E&E are initially capitalised as E&E assets.
Payments to acquire the legal right to explore, costs of technical services and studies, seismic acquisition, exploratory drilling and testing are capitalised as intangible E&E assets.
Tangible assets used in E&E activities such as the groups vehicles, drilling rigs, seismic equipment and other property, plant and equipment used by the companys exploration function are classified as property, plant and equipment.
However, to the extent that such a tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Such intangible costs include directly attributable overhead, including the depreciation of property, plant and equipment utilised in E&E activities, together with the cost of other materials consumed during the exploration and evaluation phases.
E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal activities.
Treatment of E&E assets at conclusion of appraisal activities Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence prospect are carried forward, until the existence or otherwise of commercial reserves has been determined subject to certain limitations including review for indications of impairment.
If commercial reserves have been discovered, the carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets, is then reclassified as development and production assets.
If, however, commercial reserves have not been found, the capitalised costs are charged to expense after conclusion of appraisal activities.
