84 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Premier Oil plc is a limited company incorporated in Scotland and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of the registered office is Premier Oil plc, 4th Floor, Saltire Court, 20 Castle Terrace, Edinburgh, EH1 2EN.
The principal activities of the company and its subsidiaries the group are oil and gas exploration and production in the North Sea, Asia and Middle East, Africa and Pakistan.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars since that is the currency in which the majority of the groups transactions are denominated.
Adoption of new and revised standards There are no new or amended standards or interpretations adopted with effect from 1 January 2011 that have a material impact on the groups annual results.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the European Union : IFRS 1 amended Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-Time Adopters IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income IAS 12 amended Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, rather than 1 January 2013 as originally intended, with transitional arrangements depending upon the date of initial application.
The group has not yet decided the date of its initial application and has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of adoption.
The new standard has not yet been adopted by the European Union.
Other than to expand certain disclosures within the financial statements, the directors do not expect that the adoption of the other standards and interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the group in future periods.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of financial instruments and certain oil and gas properties at the transition date to IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Further information relating to the going concern assumption is provided in the Financial Review.
During the year, management responsibility for the groups activities in Africa was transferred from the former North Sea and West Africa business unit to the Middle East-Pakistan business unit.
The segmental information for the comparative year contained within these financial statements has been re-presented to reflect this change.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess deficiency of the cost of acquisition over below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill excess of fair value over cost.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
