Business review Operations overview US Services 2011 2010 Delivery of technical services US Services m m in aerospace operations and Orders 561.1 577.6 Revenue 588.2 628.0 systems, engineering and lifecycle Underlying operating profit 44.3 52.6 management, information solutions, Underlying operating margin 7.5% 8.4% mission solutions, cyber and software and systems engineering.
Revenues declined by 7% on an organic basis at constant currency The strength of ongoing relationships with key customers was impacted by US Government in-sourcing around last year end as evidenced by an award to provide engineering services at the well as the switching of some work to small business preference Kennedy Space Center in Florida, leveraging existing NASA support contracts.
The protracted Continuing Resolution led to a further contracts at the site, as well as at the Glenn Research Center in Ohio and the Goddard Spaceflight Center in Maryland.
The new lack of clarity around contract funding.
This resulted in new and service at the Kennedy Space Center began on 1 March 2011 for incremental orders being delayed and the cancellation of some an expected base period of five years with three one-year options.
re-competes with shorter term extensions awarded in their place.
Also, during the latter part of the year, the successful Iraqi flight During the year, the US Services business was awarded seven new training project completed.
contracts for mission-critical services by key intelligence customers In this environment, bidding for existing services and larger totalling US$25m.
Building on its track record in providing training programmes is very competitive necessitating a higher investment services to the US Army, Marine Corps, Navy and Joint communities, in business development.
This, coupled with the volume impact US Services was also awarded a five-year, US$36m contract to on revenue, contributed to underlying operating profit falling to provide a full range of training development and delivery services 44.3m 2010: 52.6m, delivering an underlying margin of 7.5% to the Tactical C2 Engineering Division by the US Navys Space and 2010: 8.4%.
Naval Warfare System Center Atlantic SSC-A.
As part of the programme to exit non-core capabilities, the sale As competition intensifies, the decision to create a fully was agreed of S&IS, an access control business, for a total cash integrated US Services business will reduce duplicated overhead consideration of US$60m before tax.
The year-on-year revenue and deliver further efficiency savings, improving the divisions variance as a result of this disposal was 16m.
Significant progress has also been made in developing a common US UK cyber platform to exploit opportunities principally in five eyes markets UK, US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand generated by government commitments to additional cyber security funding.
Maximising operational and business effectiveness Identifying mission-critical factors, and controlling assets Our Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance C4ISR teams offer world-leading expertise, technical advice and practical end-to-end solutions.
Our services resolve the most complex issues in the intelligence, command and control C2 and information domains.
They manage information gathered from different sources on the battlefield to improve a commanders situational awareness and decision-making.
D efinitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 107.
T he gearing ratio is adjusted net debt: EBITDA calculated in accordance with the Groups credit facility ratios.
6 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements A Global Challenge cyber intelligence, solutions and services A situational awareness approach Our track record in the field of security positions QinetiQ to develop a comprehensive assessment of the threats an organisation or business faces in cyber space.
Our technology-neutral approach leads to solutions that meet a customers specific challenges.
We have global experience to design individual security plans and the ability to implement them.
Our intelligenceled approach to security addresses the full scope of todays risks, including the evolving demands of cyber space.
From threats to facilities, enterprise infrastructure, malware, identity theft, phishing and loss of intellectual property, we cover the entire spectrum of cyber risks.
Our excellent record in the provision of virtual and on-site managed security services for Critical National Infrastructures, governments and commercial companies all around the world, makes QinetiQ a global asset for cyber security.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 Business review Operations overview continued UK Services 2011 2010 Provision of technical services in UK Services m m aerospace engineering, test and 1 Orders 371.6 493.8 Revenue 611.6 693.9 evaluation, training and simulation, Underlying operating profit 48.7 59.1 cyber security, information and Underlying operating margin 8.0% 8.5% intelligence and procurement 1 Orders excludes remaining 3.9bn 31 March 2010: 4.1bn, in respect of LTPA contract.
Revenues declined 10% on an organic basis, principally due to UK Services continues to deliver value to its customers, fide-risking pressure on customers budgets and delays in spending approvals.
the procurement of technology for core defence programmes, Budget uncertainties had the greatest impact on the provision of predominantly in the UK but increasingly overseas.
New technical and information services, where manpower utilisation has opportunities came to fruition in Scandinavia, including a 9m a direct correlation with profitability.
In addition, the prior period managed services contract to operate the flight physiological included some pass-through revenues on certain contracts which centre for the Swedish defence administration and a 4m order did not recur this year and a contribution from the Underwater for the Norwegian Andoya Range System.
The year also saw an increase in funding for the Weapons Technology Centre, managed Systems business sold in 2009.
Orders in the comparator period by QinetiQ in support of the future pipeline of complex weapons.
were also enhanced by approximately 40m of multi-year orders and a 31m contract associated with the Ministry of Defences At the end of the period UK Services won a 11m contract to Defence Training Rationalisation DTR programme.
provide technical and information services for a national police unit.
Underlying operating profit declined from 59.1m to 48.7m, In response to customers requirements to reduce the cost of principally due to falling revenue and hence utilisation, although training, existing UK synthetic training and simulation capabilities project margins remained strong.
This was exacerbated by the have been brought together as one business.
This will enable the combined impact of approximately 5m in respect of higher leveraging of QinetiQs unique, technology-agnostic position to pension service costs and reduced property income following a deliver operational and mission training for force preparation major tenant vacating premises last year.
The underlying margin using  COTS technology.
Reductions for the full year was 8.0% 2010: 8.5%, an improvement on the in government and agency size also provide an opportunity first half margin of 7.3% as cost reductions began to take effect.
for QinetiQ, as a trusted advisor, to deliver acquisition and Headcount was reduced by 662 in the year, largely as a result procurement support.
Air worthiness, safety assurance, test and evaluation certainty Independent technical expertise QinetiQ provides a turn-key capability to design, simulate, instrument, certificate, and evaluate aircraft and equipment, assuring safety and effectiveness for a broad cross-section of government and private sector customers.
Our experts provide test and evaluation, logistics and management, and research and development support as well as aerospace engineering expertise.
8 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Providing off-the-shelf capability to address training challenges Technology-agnostic, trusted and transformational The military is faced with ever more complex Our competitive advantage lies in our deep operational situations.
Against this backdrop, domain knowledge, our close working QinetiQ is offering a new approach to the relationship with the military, our research use of synthetics to make training more agile, into the technologies available, and our more up-to-date, more relevant, more cost understanding of customer needs.
QinetiQs teams are, therefore, drawn from a We already lead in the design and delivery wide range of disciplines, including specialists of open architecture, enabling customers in training, simulation, modelling, software to select the most effective combinations engineering and design, systems integration, of software and hardware in a Plug and and human factors.
Play approach to synthetics or to select a bespoke solution if needed.
Our unique skillset is capable of delivering a much wider range of mission training solutions across the simulation spectrum, from application for hand-held devices at one end to full mission simulations at the other.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9 Business review Operations overview continued Global Products 2011 2010 Focuses on the exploitation of Global Products m m intellectual property through the rapid Orders 627.0 329.6 Revenue 502.8 303.5 development of concepts into proven Underlying operating profit 52.4 8.6 products and solutions, complemented Underlying operating margin 10.4% 2.8% by contract-funded research and development to support the creation of the next generation of products for the international market.
The OptaSense fibre-optic sensing business continues to make Revenues were 502.8m 2010: 303.5m, a 66% organic increase strong progress in the energy sector with a three-year, 26.5m at constant currency.
This includes a US$288m contribution from contract with Shell.
Follow-on orders for security and condition the new Q-NET vehicle survivability product and illustrates the monitoring included a project for Cairn Energy PLC to protect lumpy profile of the Global Products revenue.
Q-NET deliveries the 700km Mangala development pipeline in India.
In December during the year were primarily for the MRAP Lite vehicle although 2010, the acquisition of Sensoptics Ltd was completed for an initial initial orders were also received for Navistar Maxxpro and the consideration of 2.3m, net of cash acquired.
Sensoptics designs Stryker vehicle and demonstrate the ability of the business and manufactures the fibre-optic sensing hardware used to develop and deploy a technology in a timeframe that meets TM by OptaSense.
Contributions also came from TALON robots and Shoulder-Worn Acoustic Targeting System SWATS individual Towards the end of the period, the UK business received a 12m gunfire detection systems, with contract awards continuing in contract from Force Protection Europe to design, optimise and support of current operations, despite wider budgetary pressures supply the modular armour kits for the Light Protected Patrol and the Continuing Resolution.
Underlying operating profit increased to 52.4m 2010: 8.6m A new Global Products framework has been put in place enabling and an underlying margin of 10.4% 2010: 2.8%, with a significant a common approach to developing and marketing the product contribution from the volume of Q-NET deliveries more than portfolio, focused on businesses with growth strategies.
The offsetting a disappointing performance in the UK.
development of EX-Drive, as part of a consortium bidding into the US Ground Combat Vehicle programme, is an early example In the UK, the trading environment was impacted by further of this approach.
contract delays and cancellations from the MOD.
During the year, the UK business was reorganised, changes were made to the leadership team and management layers were removed.
Total UK headcount was reduced by 346, largely as a result of the restructuring programme, and a business that lacked customer demand and funding was closed.
Meeting the highest military standards for equipment Lifesaving equipment making a difference Ground forces in operational urban and rural environments are faced with continuous threat.
Having situational awareness capabilities and survivability products, which enables them to operate in extreme situations, is a priority.
QinetiQ developed SWATS in response to concerns about the high toll of sniper fire on military forces.
The US Army and the US Marine Corps have selected SWATS as their individual gunfire detection system of choice.
It is quickly becoming the global standard for wearable gun shot detection.
Weighing less than one pound, it is a versatile solution for combat troops around the world.
Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 107.
10 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Applying technology to new market applications Using distributed fibre sensing to provide value enhancing information to multiple industries Distributed fibre sensing is enabling our OptaSense delivers value in a range of customers to monitor their strategic assets markets, from the oil and gas industry, through cost effectively and, in some cases, defence and security, to transport and many to measure the unmeasurable.
These markets require a truly global business focus.
During this year, OptaSense Our OptaSense business is leading opened offices in Houston and Calgary, commercial change in multiple industries and delivered projects in new geographies, through the application of distributed fibre including India and Nigeria among others.
sensing DxS to gather information from large or complex linear assets.
At the heart of its success is its ability to convert existing fibre optic assets into thousands of sensors and then to apply advanced signal processing algorithms to disseminate the data in real time.
This dual approach enables customers to leverage an existing fibre asset and receive important and timely information.
This, in turn, enables them to make value-enhancing business decisions, whether these are to change a well completions process or to dispatch security to prevent theft from an oil pipeline.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11
