NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Significant accounting policies The company and its subsidiaries the group together with The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation its joint ventures carry out exploration and gold mining of these consolidated and company financial statements are activities.
Currently there are three operating mines in set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied Mali, West Africa: the Morila gold mine, which started to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
production in October 2000, the Loulo gold mine complex, BASIS OF PRePARATIOn which commenced production in November 2005 and the The consolidated financial statements of Randgold Resources Gounkoto mine, which began production in June 2011.
The Limited and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance group also operates a fourth mine in Cte dIvoire, Tongon, with International Financial Reporting Standards and which started production in December 2010 and has a Interpretations collectively IFRS issued by the International portfolio of exploration projects in West and Central Africa.
Accounting Standards Board IASB as adopted by the The interests of the group in its operating mines are held European Union and in accordance with Article 105 of the through Morila SA Morila which owns the Morila mine, Companies Jersey Law of 1991.
The consolidated financial Somilo SA Somilo which owns the Loulo mine, Tongon SA statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB, Tongon which owns the Tongon mine and Gounkoto SA as is required as a result of our listing on Nasdaq in the US.
Gounkoto which owns the Gounkoto mine.
Randgold The differences between IFRS as adopted by the European holds an effective 40% interest in Morila, following the sale Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB have not had a material to AngloGold Ashanti Limited on 3 July 2000 of one-half impact on the consolidated financial statements for the years of Randgolds subsidiary, Morila Limited.
The consolidated financial statements have been Morila Limited, the 80% shareholder of Morila SA, is effected through a joint venture committee, with Randgold and prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified AngloGold Ashanti each appointing one-half of the members by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and of the committee.
From the date of acquisition AngloGold various financial assets and financial liabilities including Services Mali SA Anser, a subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti, derivative instruments which are carried at fair value.
The was the operator of Morila.
On 15 February 2008 Randgold preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS assumed responsibility for the operatorship.
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It Randgold holds an effective 80% interest in Somilo and also requires management to exercise its judgement in the Gounkoto.
The remaining 20% interest is held by the State process of applying the companys accounting policies.
Randgold is the operator of the Loulo and Gounkoto areas involving a high degree of judgement or complexity, or mines.
areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Randgold holds an effective 89% interest in Tongon, 10% is consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 3. held by the State of Cte dIvoire while the remaining 1% is The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the held by a local Ivorian company.
The directors have no reason to believe The group also holds an effective interest of 45% in the Kibali that the group and company will not be a going concern in gold project in the Democratic Republic of Congo following the foreseeable future based on forecasts and available cash the acquisition by the company of a joint venture interest resources.
The viability of the company and the group is in Moto Goldmines Limited Moto in 2009, in conjunction supported by the financial statements.
Socit Minire fide Kilo-Moto sarl The group and company have adopted the following Sokimo holds the remaining 10% in the Kibali project.
standards, amendments to standards and interpretations The group has various exploration programmes ranging which are effective for the first time this year.
The impact is from substantial to early stage in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mali, Senegal, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
shown below: Effective period commencing on or after Impact on group IAS 32 Amendment Classification of Rights Issues 1 February 2010 No IFRS 1 Amendment First time Adopters of IFRS 1 1 July 2010 No IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 No IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures 1 January 2011 Yes IFRIC 14 Amendment IAS 19 Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset 1 January 2011 No Improvements to IFRS 2010 1 January 2011 No IAS 24: The revised standard provides a revised definition of a related party.
The structure of definition of a related party has been simplified and inconsistencies eliminated.
While adopted in the current year by the group and company, there has been no significant impact on the related party disclosures.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued neW STAnDARDS AnD InTeRPReTATIOnS nOT YeT eFFeCTIve Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2012 or later periods and which the group has decided not to adopt early when early adoption is available.
These are: Effective period commencing on or after IFRS 7 Amendment Transfer of Financial Assets 1 July 2011 IFRS 1 Amendment Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters 1 July 2011 IAS 12 Amendment Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets 1 January 2012 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2015 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Amendment Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013 IAS 28 Amendment Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013 IAS 19 Amendment Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 IFRS 7 Amendment Disclosure, Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities 1 January 2013 IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities 1 January 2014 Not yet endorsed by the European Union.
The company and group are currently assessing the impact The group anticipates changes to its disclosure as a of these standards on the financial statements.
Those result of this standard and is currently assessing the anticipated to be of significance to the company and group impact.
IFRIC 20 This Interpretation applies to waste removal are as follows: stripping costs that are incurred in surface mining I FRS 11 The principle in IFRS 11 is that a party to a activity, during the production phase of the mine joint arrangement recognises its rights and obligations production stripping costs.
The groups current arising from the arrangement rather than focusing on accounting policy is to treat such costs as variable the legal form.
The application of the principle results production costs.
IFRIC 20 requires that, to the extent in parties having: that the benefit from the stripping activity is realised in Where the parties have rights to the assets the form of inventory produced, the directly attributable and obligations for the liabilities relating to the costs of that activity should be treated as ore stockpile arrangement, they are parties to joint operations.
To the extent that the benefit is the improved A joint operator accounts for assets, liabilities and access to ore, the directly attributable costs should be corresponding revenues and expenses arising treated as a non-current stripping activity asset, if the from the arrangement.
following criteria are met: Where the parties have rights to the net assets it is probable that the future economic benefit of the arrangement, they are parties to a joint improved access to the orebody associated venture.
A joint venturer accounts for an with the stripping activity will flow to the entity: investment in the arrangement using the equity the entity can identify the component of the method under IAS 28 Investments in Associates.
orebody for which access has been improved: There will no longer be an option to use proportionate and consolidation, which is the groups current accounting the costs relating to the improved access to that policy and this will give rise to a significant change in component can be measured reliably.
the presentation of the groups financial results.
Refer The stripping activity asset is initially measured at cost to Note 11 for details of the groups investment in joint and is treated as an enhancement of an existing asset, ventures.
not as an independent asset.
Subsequently the stripping I FRS 12 The new standard amends disclosures activity asset is accounted for in a manner consistent regarding interests in other entities including with that adopted for the asset it has enhanced and subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and is depreciated on a units of production basis, over unconsolidated structured entities.
The disclosures the expected useful life of the identified component are intended to help users understand the judgements of the orebody that becomes more accessible as a and assumptions made by a reporting entity when result of the stripping activity.
The group intends to deciding how to classify its involvement with another adopt this policy with effect from 1 January 2012.
All entity: help users understand the interest that nonstripping costs incurred since 1 January 2010 will be controlling interests have in consolidated entities: and capitalised to the related asset in the relevant year as help users assess the nature of the risks associated required by IFRIC 20.
Total eligible stripping costs with interests in other entities.
of US$12.1 million were incurred in 2011 and will be 152 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 capitalised.
No other production phase stripping costs interests and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in have been incurred since 1 January 2010.
In line with a joint venture acquisition are measured initially at their fair IFRIC 20, our 2012 results will include a restatement values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any of the 2011 year, with non-current assets and profit non-controlling interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition increasing by US$12.1 million.
The deferred tax effects over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net are still being assessed.
Amortisation will start as that assets acquired is recorded as goodwill or other identifiable component of the orebody is mined.
If the cost of acquisition is less than COnSOLIDATIOn the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, The consolidated financial information includes the the difference is recognised directly in the Statement of financial statements of the company, its subsidiaries and Comprehensive Income.
Acquisition costs are expensed as the companys proportionate share in joint ventures using incurred.
uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other InveSTMenT In SuBSIDIARIeS AnD JOInT venTuReS events in similar circumstances.
Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated SuBSIDIARIeS at cost less any provisions for impairment in the financial Subsidiaries are entities over which the group has the power statements of the company.
Dividends are accounted for to govern the financial and operating policies, generally when the company becomes entitled to receive them.
On accompanying an interest of more than one half of the the disposal of an investment, the difference between the net voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is charged or date on which control is transferred to the group.
They credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The SeGMenTAL RePORTInG purchase method of accounting is used to account for the An operating segment is a group of assets and operations acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of an engaged in performing mining or advanced exploration that acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets given, are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed other segments.
Other parts of the business are aggregated at the date of exchange.
and treated as part of a corporate and exploration segment.
Identifiable assets acquired including mineral property The group provides segmental information using the same interests and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed categories of information the groups chief operating decision in a business combination are measured initially at their fair maker utilises.
The groups chief operating decision maker is values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any considered by management to be the board of directors.
The excess of the cost of acquisition group has only one business segment, that of gold mining.
over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net Segment analysis is based on individual mining operations assets acquired is recorded as goodwill or other identifiable and exploration projects that have a significant amount of intangible assets.
If the cost of acquisition is less than capitalised expenditure or other fixed assets.
the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, FOReIGn CuRRenCY TRAnSLATIOn the difference is recognised directly in the statement of Functional and presentation currency comprehensive income.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains groups entities are measured using the currency of the on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
primary economic environment in which the entity operates Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction the functional currency.
The consolidated financial provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
statements are presented in US dollars, which is also the Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed functional currency of the company and its significant where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies subsidiaries.
Transactions and balances JOInT venTuRe Foreign currency transactions are translated into the relevant Joint ventures are those entities in which the group holds functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at a long term interest and which are jointly controlled by the date of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and the group and one or more joint venture partners under a losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and contractual arrangement.
from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary The groups interest in such jointly controlled entities is assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are accounted for by proportionate consolidation.
Under this recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in method the group includes its share of the joint ventures other income and other expenses.
individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities and Group companies cash flows on a line by line basis with similar items in the The results and financial position of material group entities groups financial statements.
Inter-company accounts and none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
economy that have a functional currency different from the The group recognises the portion of gains or losses on presentational currency are translated into the presentation the sale of assets by the group to the joint venture that is currency as follows: attributable to the other joint venture partners.
The group assets and liabilities for each statement of financial does not recognise its share of profits or losses from the position presented are translated at the closing rate at joint venture that result from the purchase of assets by the the date of that Statement of Financial Position: group from the joint venture until it resells the assets to an income and expenses for each Statement of independent party.
However, if a loss on the transaction Comprehensive Income are translated at average provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable current assets or an impairment loss, the loss is recognised approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates immediately.
The results of joint ventures are included from prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the the effective dates of acquisition and up to the effective dates of disposal.
dates of the transactions : and The cost of a joint venture acquisition is measured at the all resulting exchange differences are recognised in fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued other comprehensive income.
There were no exchange and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
differences on translation of subsidiaries recognised in 2010 and 2011.
Identifiable assets acquired including mineral property Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 153 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued InTAnGIBLe ASSeTS groups weighted average cost of capital.
An impairment Mineral properties is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income Mineral properties acquired are recognised at fair value at to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the assets recoverable amount.
The revised carrying amounts are the acquisition date.
Mineral properties are recognised at fair amortised in line with group accounting policies.
value if acquired as part of a business combination, whereas A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the they are recognised at cost if acquired as an asset.
Mineral recoverable amount increases as a result of a reversal of the properties are tested annually for impairment on the same conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.
This basis that property, plant and equipment are when there reversal is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive is an indication of impairment.
Mineral properties will be Income and is limited to the carrying amount that would have amortised on a units of production basis when the related been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment mine commences production.
loss been recognised in prior years.
Assets are grouped at PROPeRTY, PLAnT AnD eQuIPMenT the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable undeveloped properties cash flows cash-generating units for purposes of assessing Undeveloped properties upon which the group has not impairment.
The estimates of future discounted cash flows performed sufficient exploration work to determine whether are subject to risks and uncertainties including the future significant mineralisation exists are carried at original gold price.
It is therefore reasonably possible that changes acquisition cost.
Where the directors consider that there could occur which may affect the recoverability of mining is little likelihood of the properties being exploited, or the assets.
value of the exploitable rights has diminished below cost, an STRIPPInG COSTS impairment is recorded.
All stripping costs incurred costs incurred in removing Long-lived assets overburden to expose the ore during the production phase Long-lived assets including development costs and mine of a mine are treated as variable production costs and as a plant facilities are initially recorded at cost.
Where relevant the result are included in the cost of inventory produced during the estimated cost of dismantling the asset and remediating the period that the stripping costs are incurred.
Pre-production site is included in the cost of property, plant and equipment, stripping costs are included in long-lived assets.
Refer to subsequently they are measured at cost less accumulated details of IFRIC 20 on page 152 for proposed changes in amortisation and impairment.
accounting for stripping costs from 1 January 2012.
Development costs and mine plant facilities relating to InvenTORIeS existing and new mines are capitalised.
Development costs Inventories include ore stockpiles, gold in process and consist primarily of direct expenditure incurred to establish supplies and spares and are stated at the lower of cost or or expand productive capacity and are capitalised until net realisable value.
The cost of ore stockpiles and gold commercial levels of production are achieved, after which produced is determined principally by the weighted average the costs are amortised.
cost method using related production costs.
Costs of gold Short-lived assets inventories include all costs incurred up until production of Short-lived assets including non-mining assets are shown at an ounce of gold such as milling costs, mining costs and cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
directly attributable mine general and administration costs Depreciation and amortisation but exclude transport costs, refining costs and royalties.
Long-lived assets include mining properties, such as freehold Net realisable value is determined with reference to current market prices.
Morila used a selective mining process and land, metallurgical plant, tailings and raw water dams, power thus has a number of stockpile grade categories.
Full grade plant and mine infrastructure, as well as mine development ore is defined as ore above 1.4g t and marginal ore is defined costs.
Depreciation and amortisation are charged over as ore below 1.4g t but greater than 1.0g t. Mineralised the life of the mine or over the remaining useful life of the waste was defined as greater than 0.7g t but less than 1.0g t. asset, if shorter based on estimated ore tonnes contained For Loulo, high grade open pit ore is defined as ore above in proven and probable reserves, to reduce the cost to 3.5g t and medium grade is defined as ore above 1.2g t. estimated residual values.
Proven and probable ore reserves Low grade ore from Gara is classified as ore above 0.5g t, reflect estimated quantities of economically recoverable while 0.7g t is used for Yalea.
For Loulo, Yalea material reserves, which can be recovered in the future from known less than 0.7g t is classified as mineralised waste and is mineral deposits.
Total proven and probable reserves are not in inventory, while material less than 0.5g t from Gara used in the tonnes milled units of production depreciation is regarded as mineralised waste and is not in inventory.
Any changes to the expected life of the mine or Gounkoto, ore is classified into full grade ore above 1.71g t, asset are applied prospectively in calculating depreciation marginal ore above 1g t and mineralised waste between and amortisation charges.
Short-lived assets which include 0.7g t and 1.0g t. At Tongon, ore is classified into high grade motor vehicles, office equipment and computer equipment ore above 4.0g t, medium grade above 2.0g t, low grade are depreciated over estimated useful lives of between above 0.9g t and mineralised waste is material less than two to five years but limited to the remaining mine life.
0.9g t. All stockpile grades are currently being processed Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted and all ore is expected to be fully processed.
if appropriate, at each statement of financial position date.
The processing of ore in stockpiles occurs in accordance Changes to the estimated residual values or useful lives are with the life of mine processing plan that has been optimised accounted for prospectively.
based on the known mineral reserves, current plant capacity Impairment and mine design.
Ore tonnes contained in the stockpile The carrying amount of the property, plant and equipment which exceeds the annual tonnes to be milled as per the of the group is compared to the recoverable amount of mine plan, are classified as non-current in the Statement the assets whenever events or changes in circumstances of Financial Position.
Stores and materials consist of indicate that the net book value may not be recoverable.
The consumable stores and are valued at weighted average recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and the fair cost after appropriate impairment of redundant and slow value less cost to sell.
In assessing the value in use, the moving items.
Consumable stock for which the group has expected future cash flows from the assets is determined substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are by applying a discount rate to the anticipated pre-tax future brought on to the Statement of Financial Position as current cash flows.
The discount rate used is derived from the assets.
154 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 InTeReST BORROWInG COSTS in shareholders equity are shown in Note 20.
The full fair Interest is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current into account the principal outstanding and the effective rate asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged over the period to maturity.
Borrowing cost is expensed as item is more than 12 months: it is classified as a current asset incurred except to the extent that it relates directly to the or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is construction of property, plant and equipment during the less than 12 months.
time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its Trade and other receivables intended use, when it is capitalised as part of property, plant Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair and equipment.
Borrowing cost is capitalised as part of the value.
There is a rebuttable presumption that the transaction cost of the asset where it is probable that the asset will result price is fair value unless this could be refuted by reference to in economic benefit and where the borrowing cost can be market indicators.
Subsequently, trade and other receivables measured reliably.
No interest or borrowing costs have been are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest capitalised during the year.
method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for FInAnCIAL InSTRuMenTS impairment of trade receivables is established when there is Financial instruments are measured as set out below.
objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all Financial instruments carried on the Statement of Financial amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Position include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that receivables, trade and other payables, borrowings, derivative the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, financial instruments when applicable, available for sale and default or delinquency in payments are considered financial assets, loans to and from subsidiaries and joint indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired.
The ventures and loans to minorities.
amount of the provision is the difference between the Derivatives assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated The group may use derivative financial instruments such as future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest gold forward contracts to manage the risks associated with rate.
The amount of the provision is recognised in mining commodity prices.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair and processing costs in the Statement of Comprehensive value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are Income.
subsequently remeasured to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Statement on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging of Financial Position at cost.
For the purpose of the Cash instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash The group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly on hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short term probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges.
The fair highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or value of derivative financial instruments that are traded on less at the date of purchase and bank overdrafts.
In the an active market is based on quoted market prices at the Statement of Financial Position, bank overdrafts are included statement of financial position date.
The fair value of financial in borrowings in current liabilities.
instruments not traded on an active market is determined Available-for-sale financial assets using appropriate valuation techniques.
At the inception Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that of the transaction, the group documents the relationship are either designated in this category or not classified in any between hedge instruments and hedged items, as well as of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking are designated on acquisition.
They are normally included various hedge transactions.
The group also documents its in current assets and are carried at fair value.
Where a assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging constitutes objective evidence of impairment, the amount of transactions have been and will continue to be highly effective the loss is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged Income within other expenses, other movements in fair value items.
There are no gold forward contracts outstanding, are recognised in other reserves within equity.
as all contracts were delivered into during 2010.
Refer to Borrowings Note 20 for treatment of the groups gold contracts.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of Cash flow hedge transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives stated at amortised cost: any difference between the that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value recognised in equity in the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest profit or loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the periods the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement when the hedged item will affect profit or loss for instance of the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, Accounts payable or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge Accounts payable and other short term monetary liabilities, accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or ReHABILITATIOn COSTS loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected The net present value of estimated future rehabilitation costs to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to profit or loss.
The fair is provided for in the financial statements and capitalised values of derivative instruments used for hedging purposes within mining assets on initial recognition.
Rehabilitation will are disclosed in Note 20.
Movements on the hedging reserve generally occur on closure or after closure of a mine.
Initial Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 155 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued recognition is at the time of the disturbance occurring and plans, the group pays contributions to publicly or privately thereafter as and when additional disturbances take place.
administered provident funds on a mandatory, contractual The estimates are reviewed annually to take into account or voluntary basis.
The group has no further payment the effects of inflation and changes in estimates and are obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The discounted using rates that reflect the time value of money.
contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses Annual increases in the provision due to the unwinding of the when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as discount are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the Income as a finance cost.
The present value of additional future payments is available.
disturbances and changes in the estimate of the rehabilitation Termination benefits liability are capitalised to mining assets against an increase Termination benefits are payable when employment is in the rehabilitation provision.
The rehabilitation asset is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever amortised as noted previously.
Rehabilitation projects an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for undertaken, included in the estimates, are charged to the these benefits.
The group recognises termination benefits provision as incurred.
when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating Environmental liabilities, other than rehabilitation costs, which the employment of current employees according to a relate to liabilities arising from specific events, are expensed detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or when they are known, probable and may be reasonably providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to estimated.
Benefits falling due more PROvISIOnS than 12 months after statement of financial position date are P rovisions are recognised when the group has a present discounted to present value.
legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events Profit-sharing and bonus plans where it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses.
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, The group recognises a provision where contractually and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a made.
Current tax Share-based payments C urrent tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable The fair value of the employee services received in exchange income for the year calculated using rates and laws that for the grant of options, restricted shares or participation in have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement the groups Co-Investment Plan is recognised as an expense.
It includes adjustments for tax The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous determined by reference to the fair value of the options or periods.
restricted shares determined at the grant date: Deferred taxation including any market performance conditions: and D eferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, excluding the impact of any service and non-market on temporary differences arising between the tax bases performance vesting conditions for example, of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the profitability, reserve growth targets and remaining an consolidated financial statements.
However, if the temporary employee of the entity over a specified time period.
difference arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability N on-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions in a transaction other than a business combination that at about the number of options that are expected to become the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor exercisable or the number of shares that the employee will taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred tax is ultimately receive.
This estimate is revised at each statement determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted of financial position date and the difference is charged or or substantively enacted by the statement of financial credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income, with position date and are expected to apply when the temporary a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to conditions are included in the fair value assumptions on the the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be grant date with no subsequent adjustment.
available against which the temporary differences can be T he proceeds received on exercise of the options net of any utilised.
directly attributable transaction costs are credited to equity.
D eferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising W hen the options are exercised, the company issues on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except new shares.
The proceeds received net of any directly where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary nominal value and share premium when the options are difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Transfers are made between other reserves and SHARe CAPITAL share premium when options are exercised and shares vest.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs LeASeS directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are D etermining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires eMPLOYee BeneFITS an assessment of whether fulfilment of the arrangement Pension obligations is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and T he group has defined contribution plans.
A defined whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group Leases of plant and equipment where the group assumes pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further a significant portion of risks and rewards of ownership are contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to classified as a finance lease.
Finance leases are capitalised pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service at the estimated present value of the underlying lease in the current and prior periods.
Each lease payment is allocated between the 156 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
