Statement of Directors Responsibilities and approval of the Annual Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Annual Financial Statements in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The directors are also required to prepare financial statements for to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting appropriate.
BDO LLPs audit report is presented on page 145.
Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The directors The maintenance and integrity of the companys website is the have chosen to prepare financial statements for the company in responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors accordance with IFRS.
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may The directors are responsible for the maintenance of proper have occurred to the report since it was initially presented on the accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair website.
Legislation in Jersey and the United Kingdom governing presentation of the financial statements of Randgold Resources the preparation and dissemination of the financial information may Limited company and its subsidiaries group.
The directors also prepared the other information included in the Directors responsibility statement pursuant to Annual Report and are responsible for both its accuracy and its DTR4 consistency with the financial statements.
The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements, presented on pages 146 to 178, The directors also have general responsibility for selecting suitable have been prepared in accordance with International accounting policies and applying them consistently, and for Financial Reporting Statements as endorsed by the taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard European Union, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the the assets of the group and prevent and detect fraud and other requirements of Companies Jersey Law 1991 and give a irregularities.
The going concern basis has been adopted in true and fair view of the profit of the group for the year ending preparing the financial statements.
The directors have no reason 31 December 2011 and of the assets, liabilities, financial to believe that the group and company will not be a going concern position of the group and parent company as at in the foreseeable future based on forecasts and available cash 31 December 2011. resources.
The viability of the company and the group is supported The Annual Report includes a fair review of the development by the financial statements.
and performance of the business and the financial position of the group and the parent company, together with a The financial statements have been audited by the independent description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they accounting firm, BDO LLP, which was given unrestricted access face.
to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors and committees The financial statements were approved by the board of directors of the board.
The directors believe that all representations made on 16 March 2012 and are signed on its behalf by: Mark Bristow Chief executive Philippe Litard Chairman 144 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
