NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Significant accounting policies The company and its subsidiaries the group together with The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation its joint ventures carry out exploration and gold mining of these consolidated and company financial statements are activities.
Currently there are three operating mines in set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied Mali, West Africa: the Morila gold mine, which started to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
production in October 2000, the Loulo gold mine complex, BASIS OF PRePARATIOn which commenced production in November 2005 and the The consolidated financial statements of Randgold Resources Gounkoto mine, which began production in June 2011.
The Limited and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance group also operates a fourth mine in Cte dIvoire, Tongon, with International Financial Reporting Standards and which started production in December 2010 and has a Interpretations collectively IFRS issued by the International portfolio of exploration projects in West and Central Africa.
Accounting Standards Board IASB as adopted by the The interests of the group in its operating mines are held European Union and in accordance with Article 105 of the through Morila SA Morila which owns the Morila mine, Companies Jersey Law of 1991.
The consolidated financial Somilo SA Somilo which owns the Loulo mine, Tongon SA statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB, Tongon which owns the Tongon mine and Gounkoto SA as is required as a result of our listing on Nasdaq in the US.
Gounkoto which owns the Gounkoto mine.
Randgold The differences between IFRS as adopted by the European holds an effective 40% interest in Morila, following the sale Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB have not had a material to AngloGold Ashanti Limited on 3 July 2000 of one-half impact on the consolidated financial statements for the years of Randgolds subsidiary, Morila Limited.
The consolidated financial statements have been Morila Limited, the 80% shareholder of Morila SA, is effected through a joint venture committee, with Randgold and prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified AngloGold Ashanti each appointing one-half of the members by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and of the committee.
From the date of acquisition AngloGold various financial assets and financial liabilities including Services Mali SA Anser, a subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti, derivative instruments which are carried at fair value.
The was the operator of Morila.
On 15 February 2008 Randgold preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS assumed responsibility for the operatorship.
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It Randgold holds an effective 80% interest in Somilo and also requires management to exercise its judgement in the Gounkoto.
The remaining 20% interest is held by the State process of applying the companys accounting policies.
Randgold is the operator of the Loulo and Gounkoto areas involving a high degree of judgement or complexity, or mines.
areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Randgold holds an effective 89% interest in Tongon, 10% is consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 3. held by the State of Cte dIvoire while the remaining 1% is The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the held by a local Ivorian company.
The directors have no reason to believe The group also holds an effective interest of 45% in the Kibali that the group and company will not be a going concern in gold project in the Democratic Republic of Congo following the foreseeable future based on forecasts and available cash the acquisition by the company of a joint venture interest resources.
The viability of the company and the group is in Moto Goldmines Limited Moto in 2009, in conjunction supported by the financial statements.
Socit Minire fide Kilo-Moto sarl The group and company have adopted the following Sokimo holds the remaining 10% in the Kibali project.
standards, amendments to standards and interpretations The group has various exploration programmes ranging which are effective for the first time this year.
The impact is from substantial to early stage in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mali, Senegal, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
shown below: Effective period commencing on or after Impact on group IAS 32 Amendment Classification of Rights Issues 1 February 2010 No IFRS 1 Amendment First time Adopters of IFRS 1 1 July 2010 No IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 No IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures 1 January 2011 Yes IFRIC 14 Amendment IAS 19 Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset 1 January 2011 No Improvements to IFRS 2010 1 January 2011 No IAS 24: The revised standard provides a revised definition of a related party.
The structure of definition of a related party has been simplified and inconsistencies eliminated.
While adopted in the current year by the group and company, there has been no significant impact on the related party disclosures.
