Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Cte Country of operation Mali Mali Mali dIvoire DRC Jersey Groups Groups Corporate Inter 40% 50% and company share of share of exploeliminaMorila Loulo Gounkoto Tongon Kibali ration tions Total 18.
Financial risk management In the normal course of its operations, the group is exposed to gold price, currency, interest rate, liquidity and credit risks.
In order to manage these risks, the group may enter into transactions which make use of on-balance sheet derivatives.
The group does not acquire, hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
The group has developed a risk management process to facilitate, control and monitor these risks.
The board has approved and monitors this risk management process, inclusive of documented treasury policies, counterpart limits, controlling and reporting structures.
COnTROLLInG RISk In THe GROuP The treasury committee is responsible for treasury financial risk management activities within the group.
The treasury committee reviews and recommends to the board all treasury counterparts, limits, instruments and any hedge strategies.
At least two members of the treasury committee need to be present for a decision to be made, one of whom needs to be an executive director.
The treasury committee is permitted to invest up to US$100 million 20% of the total funds whichever is the lower with each approved institution with an investment rating of AAor higher noting that funds have to be spread between at least 5 institutions.
At year end the group held 46% of the total funds excluding local bank accounts with AArated institutions on deposit for periods of three months or less.
The treasury committee is also permitted to invest up to US$25 million 5% of the total funds whichever is the lower with each approved institution with a minimum investment rating of A or higher.
At year end the group held 32% of these funds with A rated institutions for periods of three months or less.
The group has 8 institutions rated AAor higher with investments held across 6.
The A rated approved institutions amount to 11 with investments held across 8.
The remaining cash for the group at year end was held with the groups principal bankers.
The treasury committee is responsible for managing investment, gold price, currency, liquidity and credit risk.
The treasury committee monitors adherence to treasury risk management policy and counterpart limits and provides regular reports.
The financial risk management objectives of the group are defined as follows: s afeguarding the group core earnings stream from its major assets through the effective control and management of gold price risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and credit risk: e ffective and efficient usage of credit facilities in both the short and long term through the adoption of reliable liquidity management planning and procedures: e nsuring that investment and any hedging transactions are undertaken with creditworthy counterparts: and e nsuring that all contracts and agreements related to risk management activities are coordinated, consistently throughout the group and comply where necessary with all relevant regulatory and statutory requirements.
Refer to pages 118 to 123 of the Audit Committee Report for details on the groups risk factors.
Financial risk management continued FOReIGn CuRRenCY AnD COMMODITY PRICe RISk In the normal course of business, the group enters into transactions denominated in foreign currencies primarily euro, South African rand and Communaut Financire Africaine franc.
As a result, the group is subject to exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
In general, the group does not enter into derivatives to manage these currency risks.
Generally, the group does not hedge its exposure to gold price fluctuation risk and sells at market spot prices.
Gold sales are disclosed in US dollars and do not expose the group to any currency fluctuation risk.
However, during periods of capital expenditure or loan finance, the company may use forward contracts or options to reduce the exposure to price movements, while maintaining significant exposure to spot prices.
These derivatives may establish a fixed price for a portion of future production while the group maintains the ability to benefit from increases in the spot gold price for the majority of future gold production.
The group is also exposed to fluctuations in the price of consumables, such as fuel, steel, rubber, cyanide and lime, mainly due to changes in the price of oil, as well as fluctuations in exchange rates.
GROUP COMPANY 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2011 2010 2011 2010 Level of exposure of foreign currency risk carrying value of foreign currency balances.
Cash and cash equivalents includes balances denominated in: Communaut Financire Africaine franc CFA 3 424 24 532 524 346 Euro EUR 26 281 3 439 6 678 2 075 South African rand ZAR 11 640 502 11 253 29 Canadian dollar CAD 1 013 1 155 1 031 1 089 Trade and other receivables includes balances dominated in: Communaut Financire Africaine franc CFA 29 933 18 578 66 102 Euro EUR 25 1 2 1 South African rand ZAR 1 989 345 1 695 181 Trade and other payables includes balances dominated in: Communaut Financire Africaine franc CFA 74 069 5 453 81 33 Euro EUR 1 086 3 949 - - South African rand ZAR 2 161 3 583 565 584 British pound GBP 1 549 51 1 249 51 T he groups exposure to foreign currency arises where a company holds monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency different to the functional currency of the holder of the instrument which is the US dollar.
The following table shows the impact of a 10% change in the US dollar on profit and equity arising as a result of the revaluation of the groups foreign currency financial instruments.
GROUP COMPANY Effect of 10% Effect of 10% strengthening strengthening of US$ on net of US$ on net earnings and earnings and Closing equity equity exchange rate US$000 US$000 At 31 December 2011 Euro EUR 0.7723 2 522 668 Communaut Financire Africaine franc CFA 517.38 10 743 67 South African rand ZAR 8.1421 1 579 1 351 At 31 December 2010 Communaut Financire Africaine franc CFA 504.68 3 766 42 T he sensitivities are based on financial assets and liabilities held at 31 December where balances were not denominated in the functional currency of the group.
The sensitivities do not take into account the groups sales and costs and the results of the sensitivities could change due to other factors such as changes in the value of financial assets and liabilities as a result of non-foreign exchange influenced factors.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 171 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Financial risk management continued InTeReST RATe AnD LIQuIDITY RISk Fluctuations in interest rates impact on the value of short term cash investments and interest payable on financing activities including long term loans, giving rise to interest rate risk.
In the ordinary course of business, the group receives cash from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
The group generally enters into variable interest bearing borrowings.
This cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested in a manner to achieve maximum returns while minimising risks.
The group has in the past been able to actively source financing through public offerings, shareholder loans and third party loans.
The group typically holds financial investments with an average maturity of 30 days to ensure adequate liquidity.
In the ordinary course of business, the group receives cash from the proceeds of its gold sales and is required to fund working capital requirements.
This cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested in a manner to achieve market-related returns while minimising risks.
The group is able to actively source financing at competitive rates.
The counterparts are financial and banking institutions of good credit standing.
Management believes that the working capital resources, by way of internal sources and banking facilities, are sufficient to fund the groups currently foreseeable future business requirements.
GROUP COMPANY Effective Effective Amount rate for Amount rate for Maturity date Currency US$ the year % US$ the year % Cash and cash equivalents: All less than 90 days US$ 487 644 0.23 361 530 0.23 The other financial instruments of the group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The interest rate risk associated with the loans from minority interests are not significant.
Concentration of credit risk The gr oups cash balances do not give rise to a concentration of credit risk because it deals with a variety of major financial institutions.
Its receivables and loans are regularly monitored and assessed.
Receivables are impaired when it is probable that amounts outstanding are not recoverable as set out in the accounting policy note for receivables.
Gold bullion, the groups principal product, is produced in Mali and Cte dIvoire.
The gold produced is sold to the largest accredited gold refinery in the world.
Credit risk is further managed by regularly reviewing the financial statements of the refinery.
The group is further not exposed to significant credit risk on gold sales, as cash is received within a few days of the sale taking place.
Included in receivables is US$36.2 million 2010: US$14 million refer to Note 7 relating to indirect taxes owing to Morila and Loulo by the State of Mali, which are denominated in FCFA, which holds some credit risk for the group.
US$5.4 million 2010: US$4.5 million of TVA balances across the mines were past due but not impaired, as agreements are ongoing with governments for the recovery of those amounts.
Capital risk management The groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, buyback shares, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with others in the industry, the group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This ratio is calculated as net debt net cash divided by total capital.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including borrowings and trade and other payables, as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position less cash and cash equivalents.
Total capital is calculated as equity, as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position, plus net debt.
