Employment cost continued Refer to the long term incentive: restricted share award table on page 139 of the Remuneration Report for further details on these shares issued to directors and the annual movements.
Participation in Co-Investment Plan by executive directors in 2011 One third of any annual bonus earned is compulsorily deferred and an executive director may also choose to commit further shares to a Co-Investment Plan.
The maximum commitment which may be made in the Co-Investment Plan is 200% of base salary by the CEO and 100% of base salary by the CFO.
Committed shares must be retained for 3 years and may be matched, depending on relative TSR performance over 3 years against the HSBC Global Gold Index.
If after 3 years the TSR performance of the company equals or exceeds the performance of the HSBC Global Gold Index, then the committed shares may be matched on a stepped scale.
Refer to the Remuneration Report on pages 125 to 139 for further details.
The maximum level of matching is one for one.
A total of 46 577 shares were awarded to the executive directors in 2011 2010: nil under the Co-Investment Plan.
The grant date of these shares was 13 June 2011 and the shares have been fair valued at US$1.4 million.
The vesting of the award is dependent on the companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the HSBC Global Gold Index.
The share award was valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The following assumptions were used in the valuation model: risk free rate of 0.59% per annum: historical share price volatility of 40% was used: volatility assumption of 30% was used to project the HSBC Global Gold Index: the correlation used between the HSBC Global Gold Index and the company TSR was 80% over the last 3 years: and performance period from 1 January 2011 3 years.
Segmental information Operating segments have been identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the group that are regularly reviewed by the groups chief operating decision maker.
The operating segments included in internal reports are determined on the basis of their significance to the group.
In particular, operating mines are reported as separate segments and exploration projects that have significant capitalised expenditure or other fixed assets are also reported separately.
Other parts of the group, including the RAL1 joint venture, are included with corporate and exploration.
The groups chief operating decision maker is considered by management to be the board of directors.
An analysis of the groups business segments, excluding intergroup transactions, is set out below.
Major customers are not identifiable because all gold is sold to an agent.
