liability and the finance charges to achieve a constant rate development cost.
The information required by directors is on the finance balance outstanding.
The interest portion typically a final feasibility study however a prefeasibility study of the finance payment is charged to the Statement of may be deemed to be sufficient where the additional work Comprehensive Income over the lease period.
The plant and required to prepare a final feasibility study is not significant.
equipment acquired under the finance lease are depreciated Exploration and evaluation expenditure relating to extensions over the useful lives of the assets, or over the lease term if of mineral deposits which are already being mined or shorter.
developed, including expenditure on the definition of Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards mineralisation of such mineral deposits, is capitalised as of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as a mine development cost following the completion of an operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases economic evaluation equivalent to a prefeasibility study.
This are charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income on economic evaluation is distinguished from a prefeasibility a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
study in that some of the information that would normally be Revenue ReCOGnITIOn determined in a prefeasibility study is instead obtained from The company enters into contracts for the sale of gold.
the existing mine or development.
This information when Revenue arising from gold sales under these contracts is combined with existing knowledge of the mineral property recognised when the price is determinable, the product has already being mined or developed allow the directors to been delivered in accordance with the terms of the contract, conclude that more likely than not the group will obtain future the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been economic benefit from the expenditures.
Costs relating to transferred to the customer and collection of the sales price property acquisitions are capitalised within development is reasonably assured.
These criteria are met when the gold costs.
leaves the mines smelt houses.
As sales from gold contracts DIvIDenD DISTRIBuTIOn are subject to customer survey adjustment, sales are initially Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recorded on a provisional basis using the groups best recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements in estimate of the contained metal.
Subsequent adjustments the period in which the dividends are approved by the board are recorded in revenue to take into account final assay and of directors and declared to shareholders.
weight certificates from the refinery, if different from the initial eARnInGS PeR SHARe certificates.
The differences between the estimated and Earnings per share are computed by dividing net income actual contained gold have historically not been significant.
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Losses on matured hedges are included within revenue as during the year.
these pertain to losses incurred as gold hedges are settled DILuTeD eARnInGS PeR SHARe and the actual price received see accounting policy on Diluted earnings per share are presented when the inclusion derivatives.
of potential ordinary shares has a dilutive effect on earnings eXPLORATIOn AnD evALuATIOn COSTS per share.
The group expenses all exploration and evaluation expenditures until the directors conclude that a future 3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements economic benefit is more likely than not of being realised, Some of the accounting policies require the application ie probable.
While the criteria for concluding that an of significant judgement by management in selecting the expenditure should be capitalised is always probable, the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates information that the directors use to make that determination or determining the appropriate accounting treatment for a depends on the level of exploration.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure on brownfield By their nature, these judgements are subject to an inherent sites, being those adjacent to mineral deposits which are degree of uncertainty and are based on historical experience, already being mined or developed, is expensed as incurred terms of existing contracts, managements view on trends until the directors are able to demonstrate that future in the gold mining industry and information from outside economic benefits are probable through the completion of a sources.
prefeasibility study, after which the expenditure is capitalised The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk as a mine development cost.
A prefeasibility study consists of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of a comprehensive study of the viability of a mineral project of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are that has advanced to a stage where the mining method, in discussed below: the case of underground mining, or the pit configuration, PROvISIOn FOR TAXATIOn AT GOunkOTO in the case of an open pit, has been established, and Randgold has created a new company, Gounkoto SA, to hold which, if an effective method of mineral processing has the Gounkoto mining permit and mining assets.
Randgold is been determined, includes a financial analysis based on currently in negotiations with the State of Mali in respect of reasonable assumptions of technical, engineering, operating the fiscal regime that will be applicable to Gounkoto.
The economic factors and the evaluation of other relevant financial accounts have been prepared on the basis that factors.
The prefeasibility study, when combined with the Gounkoto mine is eligible for a corporate tax holiday, existing knowledge of the mineral property that is adjacent to and as such no corporate tax charges have been assumed mineral deposits that are already being mined or developed, in respect of Gounkoto during the year.
This is based on allow the directors to conclude that it is more likely than not our advanced negotiations with the State of Mali and a convention in this regard has been approved by the Council that the group will obtain future economic benefit from the expenditures.
of Ministers and is expected to be signed in March 2012.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure on greenfield sites, If the corporate tax holiday were delayed, or if Gounkoto being those where the group does not have any mineral were not eligible for a corporate tax holiday, this would have a material impact on the corporate tax calculated for the deposits which are already being mined or developed, is expensed until such time as the directors have sufficient 2011 year and consequently the earnings for the year.
After information to determine that future economic benefits are having considered all relevant information, no provision was probable, after which the expenditure is capitalised as a mine considered applicable.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued CORPORATIOn TAX CLAIMS determined in this way are used in the calculation of The group had received claims for various taxes from the State depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, as well of Mali totalling US$64.3 million, in respect of the Loulo and as the assessment of the carrying value of mining assets.
Having taken professional advice, the group There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating considers the claims to be wholly without merit or foundation ore reserves and assumptions that are valid at the time of and is strongly defending its position, including following the estimation may change significantly when new information appropriate legal process for such disputes within Mali.
Changes in the forecast prices of companies have legally binding mining conventions which commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery guarantee fiscal stability, govern the taxes applicable to the rates may change the economic status of reserves and companies and allow for international arbitration in the event may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
For a dispute cannot be resolved in the country.
Management further information refer to Annual Resources and Reserves continues to engage with the Malian authorities at the highest Declaration on page 72. level to resolve this issue and believe this is achievable given SHARe-BASeD PAYMenTS the groups experience in dealing with the State on similar Refer to Note 17 for the key assumptions used in determining issues.
the value of share-based payments.
FuTuRe ReHABILITATIOn OBLIGATIOnS AReAS OF JuDGeMenT The net present value of current rehabilitation estimates have Areas of judgement made in applying specific accounting been discounted to their present value at 2.5% per annum policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts 2010: 3.5% being the prevailing risk free interest rates.
recognised in the financial statements are: Expenditure is expected to be incurred at the end of the exploration and evaluation expenditure respective mine lives.
The Morila rehabilitation estimate at The group has to apply judgement in determining whether 31 December 2011 includes the impact of the approved exploration and evaluation expenditure should be capitalised tailings storage facility retreatment programme, where the or expensed.
Management exercises this judgement based retreated tailings will be used to sterilise the pit.
For further on the results of economic evaluations, prefeasibility or information, including the carrying amounts of the liabilities, feasibility studies.
Costs are capitalised where those studies refer to Note 15.
A 1% change in the discount rate on the conclude that more likely than not the group will obtain future groups rehabilitation estimates would result in an impact of economic benefit from the expenditures.
US$4.2 million 2010: US$2.8 million on the provision for Depreciation environmental rehabilitation, and an impact of US$0.4 million There are several methods for calculating depreciation, ie the 2010: US$0.2 million on the Statement of Comprehensive straight line method, the production method using ounces Income.
produced and the production method using tonnes milled.
The directors believe that the tonnes milled method is the GOLD PRICe ASSuMPTIOnS best indication of plant and infrastructure usage.
The following gold prices were used in the mineral reserves Carrying values of property, plant and equipment and optimisation calculations: mineral properties The group assesses at each reporting period whether there US$ oz 2011 2010 is any indication that these assets may be impaired.
If such indication exists, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the asset.
The recoverable amount is assessed Morila 1 000 800 by reference to the higher of value in use being the net Loulo: open pit 1 000 800 present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant Loulo: underground 1 000 800 cash generating unit and fair value less cost to sell.
The Tongon 1 000 800 estimates used for impairment reviews are based on detailed Kibali 1 000 800 mine plans and operating plans.
Future cash flows are based Massawa 1 000 800 on estimates of: Gounkoto 1 000 800 the quantities of the reserves and mineral resources for which there is a high degree of confidence in economic Changes in the gold price used could result in changes in the extraction: mineral reserve optimisation calculations.
Mine modelling is future production levels: a complex process and hence it is not feasible to perform future commodity prices: sensitivities on gold price assumptions.
future cash cost of production, capital expenditure, DeTeRMInATIOn OF ORe ReSeRveS close down, restoration and environmental clean-up: The group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources and based on information compiled by Competent Persons future gold prices a US$1 300 gold price was as defined in accordance with the Australasian Code for used for the current years impairment calculations Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore 2010: US$1 000.
Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
Reserves 158 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
