Loulo-Gounkoto Mine Complex continued The Loulo and Gounkoto mines, known as the Loulo-Gounkoto complex, are located in the west of Mali, bordering Senegal and adjacent to the Falm River.
The complex lies within the Kedougou-Kenieba inlier of Birimian rocks which hosts a number of major gold deposits in Mali, including Gara, Yalea, Gounkoto, Sadiola, Segala and Tabakoto as well as Sabodala across the border in Senegal.
GOUNKOTO MINING OPERATIONS The complex is owned by Randgold 80% and the State of Mali from which ore was successfully toll treated through the Loulo plant ahead of schedule in June.
At the same time, the complex 20%.
In 2010, an application was made to split the Loulo and advanced the development of the Loulo underground mines after a Gounkoto permits, and a separate company was created for full review of the underground mining strategy had been completed Gounkoto in December 2010 with the same corporate structure by mid-year.
Loulo also successfully completed the expansion of and shareholding as Loulo.
A new mining convention, which the front end of the processing plant, as well as the tailings pipeline dictates the fiscal and regulatory environment applicable to the upgrade, significantly improving the throughput of the plant and mine, has been negotiated with the State of Mali and approved started commissioning of the third mill by year end, as part of the by the Council of Ministers.
The convention is expected to be plan to further increase production.
signed in March 2012 and includes an initial two year corporate tax holiday starting from the date of first production, and a further Gold sales totalled US$549.6 million for the year and were positively tax holiday, up to a maximum of five years in total, in the event of impacted by the higher gold price received and the increase in further investment such as an underground mine.
It also includes ounces produced.
Total royalties paid amounted to US$31.6 million royalties of 6% of revenues and a 10% priority dividend payment and cash operating costs totalled US$253.9 million, resulting in for the State of Mali.
profit from mining activities of US$264.2 million.
The total cash costs of gold sold increased to US$822 oz, mainly as a result of The 2011 year was notable for its achievements, most important reduced recoveries, higher input costs, especially diesel, and the of which was the start of production at the new Gounkoto mine, adverse change in the euro dollar exchange rate.
Reserves Resources GOUNKOTO TOTAL RESOURCES AND RESERVES Moz 2009 1.64 2.88 2010 2.80 5.53 2011 2.76 5.07 0 2 4 6 8 24 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 LOULO PERMIT UPSIDE Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 25
