OPERATIONAL RISK KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation risK: sustained resOurce and explOratiOn failure reserves and The groups mining operations Reserves and resources The group publishes its reserves and resources may yield less gold under committee.
Reserves resources calculations based on gold prices actual production conditions and resources policy.
which are lower than the current market than indicated by its gold Adherence to industry prices.
Review at committee and board reserve figures, which are standards.
level of the gold price during the year as well estimates based on a number as any changes to the cost of production.
of assumptions, including Close monitoring and reconciliation of mining and recovery factors, resource to mined ore on a continuous production costs and gold basis.
risK: enVirOnMental, health, safety and security incident no significant Failure to maintain Environmental, health, Formal safety system in place.
environmental, health and safety and security and certification of training.
Reporting frequency safety standards resulting in policies.
Environmental, procedures in place with breaches to rates.
significant environmental or health, safety and security executive committee if necessary on a safety incident or deterioration team.
Monitoring system weekly basis and quarterly reporting to in safety performance of incidents.
Leadership accountability standards resulting in loss of for incidents throughout the group by life or significant loss of time setting of environmental, health and safety and disruption or damage to performance targets.
risK: risKs assOciated with undergrOund Mining Ore tonnes The groups underground Annual business plan.
Assistance with the underground operations produced.
from a third party mining contractor.
project at the Loulo mine in Monthly reporting.
cost per Mali is subject to the risks Annual strategic review.
Close management by executive team tonne.
associated with underground and monthly review of performance against budget.
Board review of actual mining which may affect the profitability of the group.
performance against plan on a continuous basis.
