Tongon Gold Mine continued The Tongon mine is located within the Nielle exploration permit in the north of Cte dlvoire, 55 kilometres south of the border with Mali.
Tongon SA is owned by an Ivorian company, Socit des Mines fide Tongon SA, of which Randgold has an 89% interest, the government of Cte dlvoire 10% and 1% is held by a local company.
Tongon is an open pit mining operation and employs the four standard mining practices of drill, blast, load and haul.
Tongon has a ten year Life of Mine LOM with mining taking place crushers and conveyors, as well as on the grid power supply and from two main pits: South Zone SZ and the smaller North Zone the general completion of the camp and project.
Both the SZ and NZ pits have potential for more reserves.
Mineral resources and ore reserves Considering the difficult socio-political environment at the The geological models for the SZ and NZ were updated with beginning of the year, the mines achievements were outstanding.
additional grade control and diamond drilling completed during the Gold production was 250 390 ounces, while gold sales were year.
This, together with the higher gold price used to declare 271 922 ounces.
This included some ounces produced in resources and reserves, indicated that the pits could potentially 2010, which the mine was unable to sell due to the political deepen due to additional inferred resources.
Notwithstanding the crisis, the mine successfully resources have therefore increased by 9% from 4.22Moz in 2010 operated throughout the period, and although the completion of to 4.60Moz in 2011.
Additional drilling will be completed in 2012 to construction was delayed, the mine completed the final projects convert this resource to reserves.
and connected to the national electricity grid in December 2011.
Gold sales amounted to US$425.1 million and total cash costs Operations per ounce were US$557 oz, resulting in a profit from mining Mining AnD PlAnning activity of US$273.7 million.
Capital expenditure during the year In 2011, the bulk of the mining activity took place in the SZ pit.
Underground mineral resources are those insitu mineral resources below the NZ US$1 500 oz pit shell reported at a 2.0g t cut-off.
Mineral resources were generated by Mr Babacar Diouf and Mr Mamadou Ly, both officers of the company, and supervised by Mr Jonathan Kleynhans, an officer of the company and competent person.
Open pit mineral reserves are reported at a gold price of US$1 000 oz and 1.39g t cut-off and include dilution and ore loss factors.
NZ open pit mineral reserves were calculated by Mr Samuel Baffoe, an officer of the company, under the supervision of Mr Onno ten Brinke, an officer of the company and competent person.
SZ open pit mineral reserves were calculated by Mr Nick Kingaby, an external consultant and competent person.
Attributable gold Moz refers to the quantity attributable to Randgold based on Randgolds 89% interest in the Tongon gold mine.
See comments and US disclaimer on page 74 of this Annual Report.
42 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 TONGON NORTHERN AND SOUTHERN ZONE OREBODIES ore to supplement the soft ore delivery given the political upheaval ground conditions encountered in the transitional and fresh rock in the country and resultant delay in completing the hard rock surfaces and the effect of the mines improved water management plan.
A long term ground water management plan for the mine has been The mine has an initial mine life of 10 years but has the potential established to ensure stable operation through future heavy rainfall to extend this with nearby discoveries and satellite pits.
Borehole and sump dewatering form an integral part of these satellite pits, adjacent to the existing SZ and NZ pits, have the mining strategy in Tongon due to the pit lying in the catchment been introduced into the 2012 LOM plan.
The LOM schedule is area of an old river and downstream of the water storage dam.
as follows: Eight dewatering boreholes are located around the SZ pit and SZ pit, where mining started in 2010, will be mined until 2016 six around the NZ pit.
In-pit pumps are used to complement the to the final pit bottom.
boreholes, mainly during the rainy season.
NZ pit, where mining started in 2011, will not be mined in 2012.
Mining will resume in 2013 waste stripping, with ore The mining contractors workshop facilities were completed mining continuing from 2014 to 2019. in September 2011 and contributed to the improvement of The SZ extension and NZ extension satellite pits have maintenance activities.
In addition the MAXAM explosives factory been introduced into the plan and will be mined from was completed and commissioned in November 2011.
PROCessing PlAnT AnD engineeRing Total material mined in 2011 was 17.4Mt of which 3.47Mt was ore Processing at an average grade of 2.38g t. The process plant treated 2.96Mt of oxides and transitional ore in 2011, which was 13.5% below the 300Ktpm target, while the The bulk of the material mined in both pits was oxide saprolite mill availability achieved was 14% below target at 78.8%.
The and transitional in nature.
Mining production peaked in the dry main contributor to the shortfall in tonnage throughput was the periods before and after the wet season as per plan.
Productivity political impasse in the country in the beginning of the year which decreased during the wet period of June to September due to the had a knock-on effect on the movement of much-needed spares difficulty of mining in saprolite oxide and transitional areas with and personnel, delayed the commissioning of key process units their water-retaining nature.
The mining contractor experienced such as the secondary and tertiary crusher circuits and caused repeated damage to both pit diggers and haul trucks as a result work disruptions.
Additional contributors were downtime related of operating in transitional material areas.
Alternative solutions to plant construction snag list items, the difficulty of treating were found to prevent haul trucks bogging down in the pit and wet oxide saprolite and transitional ore during the rainy season, undercarriage damage to the diggers.
The fourth quarter once major equipment breakdowns such as the mill barring gear failure, again saw the ramping up in material movement due to better repeated conveyor belt tears and breakages, and the high wear Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 43
