Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing of the Company and the Group and enable together with a diverse customer and supplier the Annual Report, the Directors them to ensure that the financial statements base across different geographical areas and Remuneration Report and the financial and the Directors Remuneration Report categories.
As a consequence, the Directors statements in accordance with applicable comply with the 2006 Act and, as regards the believe that the Group and Company are well law and regulations.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the placed to manage their business risks IAS Regulation.
successfully despite the current uncertain Company law requires the Directors to prepare economic outlook.
financial statements for each financial year.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Under that law the Directors have elected to the assets of the Company and the Group The Directors have a reasonable expectation prepare the Group financial statements in and hence for taking reasonable steps for that the Group and Company have adequate accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the the prevention and detection of fraud and resources to continue in operational existence European Union, and the parent Company other irregularities.
Thus they continue financial statements in accordance with United to adopt the going concern basis of accounting The Directors are responsible for the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting in preparing the annual financial statements in maintenance and integrity of the Companys Practice United Kingdom Accounting accordance with the FRCs Going Concern and website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Standards and applicable law.
In preparing the Liquidity Risk: Guidance For Directors of UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Group financial statements, the Directors have Companies 2009.
This statement is also financial statements may differ from legislation also elected to comply with IFRSs issued by the made to fulfil the requirements of Listing in other jurisdictions.
International Accounting Standards Board Rules 9.8.
Under company law the Directors must Each of the Directors, whose names and the Code.
not approve the financial statements unless functions are listed on page 18 confirms that, Disclosure of Information to Auditors they are satisfied that they give a true and fair to the best of their knowledge: The Directors, having made appropriate view of the state of affairs of the Group and The Group financial statements, which have enquiries, state that: the Company and of the profit or loss of the been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Group for that period.
a So far as each Director is aware, there is no adopted by the EU and IFRSs as issued by the relevant audit information of which the In preparing these financial statements, the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, Companys auditors are unaware: and Directors are required to: liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and b Each Director has taken all the steps that Select suitable accounting policies and then he she ought to have taken as a Director apply them consistently.
The Report of the Directors includes a fair to make him herself aware of any relevant review of the development and performance Make judgements and accounting estimates audit information and to establish that of the business and the position of the that are reasonable and prudent.
the Companys auditors are aware of Group, together with a description of the that information.
State whether IFRSs as adopted by the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB Going Concern and applicable UK Accounting Standards By Order of the Board The Groups business activities, together with have been followed, subject to any material the factors likely to affect its future Elizabeth Richardson departures disclosed and explained in the development, performance and position are set Company Secretary Group and parent Company financial out in the Business Review on pages 10 to 17.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc statements respectively.
The financial position of the Group and 103-105 Bath Road Prepare the financial statements on the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH going concern basis unless it is inappropriate borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups Company registration number: 6270876 to presume that the Company will continue objectives, policies and processes for managing in business.
its capital: its financial risk management 9 March 2012 objectives: details of its financial instruments The Directors are responsible for keeping and hedging activities: and its exposure to adequate accounting records that are sufficient credit risk and liquidity risk are described in the to show and explain the Companys Business Review on page 14 and in transactions and disclose with reasonable note 15 to the Group financial statements.
accuracy at any time the financial position The Group has considerable financial resources 28 2011
