Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of annual general meeting 100 Approval of Rule 9 Waiver THIS SECTION OF THE DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES would be conducted within the pricing and size parameters agreed by YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt about the the Independent Directors but in compliance with the limits set out in proposal set out in this section of the document you should consult Resolution 13. an independent financial adviser authorised under the FSMA.
The Waiver, if granted, would only apply for as long as Resolution 13 Letter from the Senior Independent Director remains in force.
Accordingly, whether or not the authority given under Redrow plc Resolution 13 is used in the coming year, the Independent Directors will incorporated and registered in England and Wales under number again, in consultation with major shareholders consider whether to 2877315 seek a renewal of the Waiver by the Panel at the time of the 2012 Registered Office: annual general meeting.
Any such renewal of the Waiver would again be Redrow House subject to Independent Shareholder approval at next years AGM.
St. Davids Park Flintshire The Company has consulted privately with a number of its major CH5 3RX institutional shareholders and with their representative bodies on the 7 September 2011 proposed Waiver.
It has gained sufficient comfort from these discussions both on the economic rationale for the buy-back and on the To Independent Shareholders grant of a Waiver to proceed with the proposed Waiver Resolution at the AGM.
The Independent Directors having been so advised by BofA Dear Shareholder Merrill Lynch and J. P. Morgan Cazenove, consider the Waiver to be fair and reasonable as far as the Independent Shareholders and the Rule 9 Waiver granted by the Panel in favour of Steve Morgan Company as a whole are concerned.
In providing advice to the In 2010, the Panel granted a Rule 9 waiver which was approved by Independent Directors, BofA Merrill Lynch and J. P. Morgan Cazenove Independent Shareholders at our 2010 AGM and gave the Company the have taken into account the Independent Directors commercial flexibility to buy back shares without Steve Morgan incurring an assessments.
Accordingly, the Independent Directors, who consider the obligation to make a mandatory offer.
Although the Board over the last Waiver Resolution to be in the best interests of the Independent year has not sought to buy back any shares, your Board considers that it Shareholders and the Company as a whole, unanimously recommend is appropriate for the Company to continue to be in a position to buy that the Independent Shareholders vote in favour of the Waiver back shares if it would be in the best economic interests of the Resolution at the AGM, as they intend to do in respect of their own Company to do so, and accordingly is seeking a renewal of the Rule 9 beneficial shareholdings representing approximately 0.09 per cent.
As at the Latest Practicable Date, Steve Morgan the Chairman of the In accordance with the requirements of the Code, Mr Morgan will not Company held 92,436,874 Ordinary Shares representing approximately be voting his interest in 92,436,874 Ordinary Shares in the Company, 29.95 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the Company.
of issued share capital on the Waiver Resolution.
The vote in respect of the Waiver Resolution will The authority to repurchase shares proposed by Resolution 13 at the be held by means of a poll vote.
AGM provides the Company with the flexibility to manage its capital base in line with other listed companies that include this standard Yours faithfully, resolution at their AGM each year.
However, if the Company undertakes a share repurchase in accordance with the authority granted by Alan Jackson Resolution 13 at the AGM, Mr Morgans interest in Ordinary Shares Senior Independent Director could increase beyond 30 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the Company, in which case he could be required under Rule 9 of the Code Section I Background to make a mandatory offer for the remainder of the share capital of the Company.
The maximum interest in Ordinary Shares which Mr Morgan 1 Background could hold as a result of a share repurchase in accordance with 1.1 Steve Morgan the Chairman of the Company held 92,436,874 Resolution 13 is approximately 33.3 per cent.
Ordinary Shares representing approximately 29.95 per cent.
of the issued share capital at the Latest Practicable Date.
Should We are therefore asking the Independent Shareholders to approve the his interest in Ordinary Shares increase beyond its current level terms of a waiver of this requirement granted by the Panel to Mr such that he holds 30 per cent.
or more of the issued share Morgan, as was done at the AGM last year.
An explanation of the capital, he may be required under Rule 9 of the Code to make a reasons for this request, and the background to the obligation arising mandatory offer for the remainder of the share capital of the from Rule 9 of the Code, follow this letter.
In any event, and as stated above, the Directors would only exercise the 1.2 If Resolution 13 authority to purchase own shares is approved, authority to buy back under Resolution 13 if it would be in the best Mr Morgan would be in a position where, were he not to economic interests of the Company to do so.
The final decision relating participate pro rata to his interests in any further re-purchase by to any buy-back would be taken by the Independent Directors and the Company of its own shares, his percentage interest in the About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of annual general meeting 101 Ordinary Shares would increase beyond its current level, thereby 3 Independent advice potentially triggering a mandatory offer under Rule 9 of the 3.1 BofA Merrill Lynch and J. P. Morgan Cazenove have provided Code.
The approval of the Independent Shareholders is therefore advice to the Independent Directors, in accordance with the being sought, by means of the Waiver Resolution to be taken on requirements of paragraph 4 a of Appendix 1 to the Code, in a poll at the AGM, for the Waiver which the Panel has granted relation to the granting of the Waiver.
The Waiver will not permit Mr 3.2 This advice was provided by BofA Merrill Lynch and J. P. Morgan Morgans interest to reach or exceed 33.3 per cent.
see further Cazenove to the Independent Directors of the Company only and paragraph 4 below.
in providing such advice BofA Merrill Lynch and J. P. Morgan Cazenove have taken into account the Independent Directors 1.3 In seeking authority to buy back shares, the Company wishes to commercial assessments as well as the confirmations of Mr maintain flexibility in the management of its capital structure.
In Morgans future intentions that he has provided to the Company so doing, the Company brings itself into line with the majority of as set out in paragraph 6 of this Section I. listed companies who seek a re-purchase authority on an annual basis and, more narrowly, into line with its house-building peers.
4 Maximum potential holding 4.1 Pursuant to the Code, it is necessary to provide an illustration of 1.4 Whilst the Company will continue to devote the bulk of its cash Mr Morgans maximum potential interest in Ordinary Shares flow to the purchase of land or to the development of plots to based on certain assumptions.
create value, it is also clear that the economic benefit to the Company from buying back shares at a discount to net asset 4.2 Assuming i full use by the Company of the authority granted value may be value-enhancing.
under Resolution 13: ii no pro rata participation or other sales of interests in Ordinary Shares by Mr Morgan in connection with 2 Reasons for the Waiver any share re-purchases or otherwise: and iii no other person Rule 9 Mandatory Offer Obligation exercising any options or any other rights to subscribe for 2.1 Under Rule 9 of the Code, when any person, together with Ordinary Shares, Mr Morgans maximum potential interest in the persons acting in concert with him, is interested in shares which Ordinary Shares if the Waiver is approved would be as set out in in aggregate carry not less than 30 per cent.
of the voting rights the following table: but does not hold shares carrying more than 50 per cent.
of the Steve Morgans Number of Steve Morgans voting rights of such a company, a general offer will normally be current interest Ordinary Shares maximum required if any further interests in shares are acquired by any in Ordinary in issue as potential such person.
Such an offer would have to be made in cash at a shares at the Latest interest in price not less than the highest price paid by him, or by any Practicable Ordinary Date Shares member of the group of persons acting in concert with him, for 92,436,874 308,607,479 92,436,874 any interest in shares in the company during the 12 months prior 29.95% 33.28% to the announcement of the offer.
Share Purchases 5 Further explanation of the Waiver and the Resolution 2.2 Under Rule 37 of the Code, any increase in the percentage Share Purchases under Resolution 13 or any other buyback holding of a shareholder which results from a company resolution purchasing its own shares will also be treated as an acquisition 5.1 The Waiver will apply, provided the Waiver Resolution is approved for the purposes of Rule 9 of the Code.
by the Independent Shareholders, only in respect of increases in Mr Morgans percentage interest in Ordinary Shares resulting 2.3 If Mr Morgan does not participate pro rata to his interest in the from re-purchases of Ordinary Shares under Resolution 13.
It will Ordinary Shares in any future repurchases by the Company of its not apply in respect of other increases in Mr Morgans own shares pursuant to the authority to be granted under percentage interest in Ordinary Shares arising, for example, from Resolution 13, he will become interested in a greater percentage market purchases of Ordinary Shares by or on behalf of Mr of Ordinary Shares representing between 30 and 33.3 per cent.
Morgan or from other re-purchases of Ordinary Shares by the of the Companys voting share capital and will therefore be Company that are not pursuant to the authority granted by subject to the provisions of Rule 9 of the Code.
As explained above, if there are any re-purchases Independent Directors consulted with the Panel which agreed, of Ordinary Shares by the Company pursuant to Resolution 13 in subject to a poll vote of the Independent Shareholders on the which Mr Morgan does not participate pro rata to his interests in Waiver Resolution, that it would waive any obligation that would Ordinary Shares, Mr Morgan may become interested in Ordinary otherwise arise under Rule 9 as a result of market purchases of Shares carrying 30 per cent.
or more of the Companys voting Ordinary Shares by the Company, pursuant to the authority to be share capital but will not hold Ordinary Shares carrying more granted under Resolution 13, that would take Mr Morgans than 33.3 per cent.
of such voting rights and any further increase interest in Ordinary Shares to a level above his current interest in that interest in Ordinary Shares other than pursuant to the being 29.95 per cent.
of issued share capital as at the date of proposals set out in this section of the document and as this document up to a potential maximum of approximately approved by the Waiver Resolution will be subject to the 33.3 per cent.
provisions of Rule 9 of the Code.
