About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of annual general meeting 95 Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Redrow plc subscribe for or convert securities into shares in pursuance of such offer will be held at Village St. Davids Park, Ewloe, Nr Chester, Flintshire, or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
CH5 3YB on Thursday 3 November 2011 at 12 noon for the following purposes.
All resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions except Resolution 11 - Approval of Rule 9 waiver numbers 12, 13 and 14 which will be proposed as special resolutions.
To resolve that the waiver granted by the Panel of the obligation which may otherwise arise, pursuant to Rule 9 of the Code, for Steve Morgan Resolution 1 - Annual Report & Accounts or any person with whom Mr Morgan is acting in concert to make a To receive and adopt the Directors report and the financial statements general offer to the other Shareholders for all of their Ordinary Shares for the year ended 30 June 2011, together with the Auditors report.
as a result of market purchases of Ordinary Shares by the Company pursuant to the authority granted under Resolution 13 below, that Resolution 2 - Re-appointment of Director could potentially increase Mr Morgans shareholding from To re-appoint Steve Morgan as a Director.
of issued share capital to a maximum of approximately 33.3 per cent.
of issued share capital, be and is hereby Resolution 3 - Re-appointment of Director approved.
To re-appoint John Tutte as a Director.
Resolution 12 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Resolution 4 - Re-appointment of Director That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 as set out above, the To re-appoint Barbara Richmond as a Director.
Directors be given power pursuant to Resolution 10 to make allotments of equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Companies Act Resolution 5 - Re-appointment of Director 2006 pursuant to the authority contained in the said Resolution 10 To re-appoint Alan Jackson as a Director.
and to sell shares which are held in treasury wholly for cash as if section 561 1 of the said Act did not apply to such allotments or sale Resolution 6 - Re-appointment of Director provided that this power shall be limited to: To re-appoint Debbie Hewitt as a Director.
i allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, Resolution 7 - Re-appointment of Director being an offer of equity securities by way of rights to ordinary To re-appoint Paul Hampden Smith as a Director.
shareholders of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be to their holdings subject to such exclusions or other Resolution 8 - Re-appointment of Auditors arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient To re-appoint  LLP as external Auditors to the in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical Company, to hold office until the end of the next general meeting at problems under the laws of or the requirements of any which financial statements are laid before the Company and to recognised regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
and Resolution 9 - Directors Remuneration report ii any other allotments for cash or equity securities or sale of To approve the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended 30 shares held in treasury up to a maximum nominal amount of June 2011.
1,543,037: Resolution 10 - Authority to allot shares and shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the date That the directors, in place of any existing authority conferred upon which is the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company them for the purpose of section 549 551 of the Companies Act 2006, or 31 December 2012 save that the said power shall permit the be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in Company to make an offer or enter into an agreement before the accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to powers of the Company to allot and to make offers or agreements to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity allot shares or convert any securities into shares: securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if such power conferred had not expired.
For the purposes of this Resolution, the i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,286,915: nominal amount of any securities shall be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares of the ii up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 10,286,915 in Company, the nominal amount of such shares which may be allotted connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
Provided that this authority shall unless previously revoked or Resolution 13 Authority to purchase own shares renewed expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally Company or 31 December 2012 whichever may be the earlier but so authorised, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to said Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after ordinary shares provided that: such expiry and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights to Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of annual general meeting 96 Notice of annual general meeting a the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be to entries on the Register after that time will be disregarded in purchased is 30,860,747: determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 10p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company: iv The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is been nominated to receive communications from the Company an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the average of the in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 middle market quotations for an ordinary share derived from the nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed is purchased exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a and ii that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003 : and such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
d the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 31 December 2012 v Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at whichever may be the earlier except that the Company may general meetings of the Company.
The total number of issued before such expiry make a contract to purchase its own shares ordinary shares in the Company on 7 September 2011 is which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly 308,607,479, carrying one vote each on a poll.
Therefore, the after such expiry.
total number of votes exercisable as at 7 September 2011 are 308,607,479.
Resolution 14 Calling of a general meeting other than an AGM That a general meeting other than the Annual General Meeting may be vi Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any 7 September 2011 By order of the Board matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts Registered office: Graham Cope including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that Redrow House Company Secretary are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the financial St. Davids Park year beginning 1 July 2010: or ii any circumstance connected Flintshire with an auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year CH5 3RX beginning 1 July 2010 ceasing to hold office since the previous Registered in England No.
2877315 meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 requirements as to website availability of Notes: the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him.
A proxy need Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the not be a member of the Company.
A member may appoint more Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise statement available on the website.
The business which may be the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
dealt with at the Annual General Meeting for the relevant financial year includes any statement that the Company has ii A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein publish on a website.
and returned so as to reach the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting or any adjourned vii Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy will not preclude a questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such shareholder from attending and voting at the meeting in person question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting if they so wish.
but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the iii All shareholders on the Register at 6pm on 1 November 2011 or disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already if the meeting is adjourned 48 hours before the time fixed for the been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, meeting and only those shareholders are entitled to attend and or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
shares registered in their respective names at that time.
Changes About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of annual general meeting 97 viii A copy of this notice and other information required by Section appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can be found at redrow.
to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in Note ii ix Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of moved at the meeting and or ii to include in the business to be instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed communicated to him by other means.
resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be xiv CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of make available special procedures in CREST for any particular inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such must be received by the Company not later than 22 September action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is 2011, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in request.
particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
x Copies of the Directors service contracts will be available for inspection at the registered office during normal business hours xv The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in on any business day and at the place of the Annual General the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Meeting for at least 15 minutes before the meeting is held until Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. its conclusion.
xvi If you have any questions about the meeting or need any special xi The register of Directors interests in the share capital of the assistance at the meeting, please contact the Company Secretary Company will be available for inspection at the place of the at the registered office or telephone 01244 520044 during meeting from 12 noon on 3 November 2011 until the conclusion normal business hours.
None of the Directors has a service contract which cannot be terminated within one year without payment of Explanatory Notes To Annual General Meeting Resolutions: compensation.
Resolutions 2-7 - Re-appointment of directors xii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through As required by the new UK Corporate Governance Code, annual the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for re-election of all directors is now required.
the meeting and any adjournment of the meeting by following the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Resolution 8 - Re-appointment of Auditors Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST The Company is required to appoint Auditors at every general meeting members who have appointed a voting service provider should at which the accounts are presented to shareholders.
refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
 LLP were appointed at last years Annual General Meeting and are willing to seek re-appointment this year.
"It is xiii In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means normal practice for a Companys Directors to be authorised to agree of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a ""CREST the Auditors fees."
"If this resolution is passed, the Audit Committee will Proxy Instruction"" must be properly authenticated in accordance approve the fees for recommendation to the Board."
with Euroclears specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual Resolution 9 - Directors Remuneration report available via www.
The message Under the Companies Act 2006 companies are required to ask regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy shareholders to vote on the Directors Remuneration report.
The report or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously is contained on pages 49 to 56 of the Annual Report & Accounts.
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of annual general meeting 98 Notice of annual general meeting Resolution 10 - Authority to allot shares Shares purchased by the Company could be held as treasury shares, Shareholders are being invited to renew the authority given to Directors which could then be subsequently cancelled, sold for cash or used in previous years to allot new shares.
If passed, Resolution 10 would pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes.
renew this authority by authorising the Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,286,915 or an additional The ability to hold in treasury shares that the Company purchases 10,286,915 in respect of a Rights Issue or 66% in the context of a pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution would give the rights issue.
This represents 102,869,150 ordinary shares of 10p each Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and and is equivalent to approximately 33% of the Companys current cost-effectively, and would provide the Company with additional issued ordinary share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
The flexibility in the management of its capital base.
If any shares were used authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of in this way, the Company would take them into account when the Company or, if earlier, 31 December 2012. calculating the share issuing limits in the schemes, as long as required under the Guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
The Company does not, as of 7 September 2011 hold any shares in treasury.
Details of any shares purchased pursuant to the proposed authority would be notified to the London Stock Exchange by 7.30am on the The Directors will exercise the authority to allot only when satisfied business day following the purchase and to the Registrar of Companies that it is in the interests of the Company to do so.
They have no present within 28 days.
Details would also be included in the Companys Annual intention of exercising the authority, except in connection with the Report & Accounts in respect of the financial period in which any such issue of shares under the Companys share option schemes.
The authority set out in the special resolution will expire on whichever is the earlier of the end of the next Annual General Resolution 11 - Approval of Rule 9 Waiver Meeting or 31 December 2012 and the resolution specifies the Pursuant to Rule 9 of the code and the Waiver granted by the panel, maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be bought.
which is conditional upon Independent Shareholder approval, we are Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the asking the Independent Shareholders to approve the terms of the overall financial position of the Company will be taken into account Waiver in favour of Steve Morgan for the reasons set out on pages 100 before deciding upon the course of action.
The Companys current intention is to hold any shares purchased as Resolution 12 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights treasury shares but it retains the flexibility to cancel them or sell them The Directors may only allot shares for cash to persons who are not for cash if it considers this to be in the best interests of the Company.
already shareholders in the Company if authorised to do so by the shareholders in a general meeting.
This resolution renews authority for The Directors would exercise this authority only if they felt it would be the Directors to allot shares for cash without first offering them to in the best economic interests of the Company to do so.
At existing members up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,543,037.
7 September 2011 there were options outstanding over 5,224,873 This sum represents 15,430,374 ordinary shares of 10p each, being shares, representing 1.7% of the Companys current issued ordinary equivalent to approximately 5% of the Companys current issued share share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
If the authority given capital.
The resolution also enables the Directors to modify the strict by this resolution were to be fully used, these would represent 1.9% of requirements for a rights issue in circumstances where they consider it the Company issued ordinary share capital excluding shares held in necessary or expedient.
There are no warrants outstanding.
In addition, if the Company has purchased its own shares and holds In addition, if Resolution 11 is approved and the authority granted by them in treasury, this resolution would give the Directors power to sell this resolution were to be fully used, Steve Morgans shareholding these shares for cash to persons other than existing shareholders, would increase from 29.95% to approximately 33.3% of the Companys subject to the same limit that would apply to issues of shares for cash issued ordinary share capital.
Resolution 14 Calling of a general meeting other than an AGM The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights the next Annual General Meeting or 31 December 2012.
Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice Resolution 13 Authority to purchase own shares period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs of the The Directors are seeking authority, as in previous years, to make Company will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
market purchases of the Companys shares.
The proposed authority would be limited by the terms of the special resolution to the Documents available for your inspection purchases of 30,860,747 shares, an aggregate nominal value of Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection 3,086,075 which is equivalent to 10% of the Companys issued share during normal business hours on Monday to Friday each week public capital at 7 September 2011. holiday excepted at the companys registered office and at the office of Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ from the date of this document up to and including the date of the Annual General About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of annual general meeting 99 Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45am until the close of the meeting.
n a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for each of the years ended 30 June 2009, 2010 and 2011: n the letters of consent from BofA Merrill Lynch and J. P. Morgan Cazenove to the Company referred to in paragraph 10 on page 106 of this document: n the Articles of Association and Memorandum of the Company: n a copy of the material contracts i. e. the Syndicated Facility Agreement and the Scotland Sale Agreement: n the service agreements of the Directors: and n the register of the Directors interests.
