Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial information 66 Accounting policies Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have been b Interests in Joint Ventures prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and effective at 30 June parties undertake an economic activity which is subject to joint control.
2011, and in accordance with IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate 2006 as it applies to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as jointly Regulation and in accordance with the historical cost convention as controlled entities.
modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments and The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the equity retirement benefit obligations.
method of accounting - the Groups share of profit after tax is shown separately on the face of the income statement and its share of net assets is The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the included within non-current assets in the balance sheet as an investment.
use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of When the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Whilst these estimates profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or joint venture, except where unrealised losses provide evidence of actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates refer to impairment of the asset transferred.
Where joint venture arrangements are note 1. undertaken directly, the Groups share of jointly controlled assets and liabilities are recognised in the relevant subsidiary company and classified The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in the Revenue and Profit Recognition Revenue represents the fair value received and receivable in respect of the periods presented and are outlined below: sale of residential housing and land and of commercial land and developments net of value added tax and discounts.
This is recognised on Basis of Consolidation legal completion.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the Profit is recognised on legal completion.
results and share of net assets of jointly controlled entities i. e. the financial statements of Redrow plc and entities controlled by Redrow plc and its Segmental reporting subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where Redrow plc has the power to govern The main operation of the Group is focused on housebuilding.
the financial and operating policies of an entity.
Redrow plcs accounting As it operates entirely within the United Kingdom, the Group has only one reference date is 30 June.
Consistent with the normal monthly reporting business and geographic segment.
This is consistent with the information process, the actual date to which the balance sheet has been drawn up is to provided for internal reporting purposes to the Chief Operating decision 3 July 2011 2010: 27 June 2010.
For ease of reference all references to the maker the Board.
The Group has no key customers.
year or 12 months and financial position are for the year ended 30 June and as at 30 June.
Exceptional Items Exceptional items are those which in the opinion of the Board, are material The Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided under Section by size or nature, non-recurring and of such significance that they require 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present Redrow plc's Company separate disclosure.
The profit loss for the financial year is dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Net Finance Costs Interest income is recognised on a time apportioned basis by reference to a Subsidiaries the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate.
Borrowing costs are The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis in the period in included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of which they are incurred.
acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business Income and Deferred Tax combination are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets represents goodwill.
Goodwill is subject to an Current tax is based on taxable profits for the year and any appropriate annual impairment review, with any reduction in value being taken straight adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Taxable profit differs to the income statement.
from profit before tax as shown in the income statement as it excludes income or expenditure items which are never chargeable or allowable for tax Adjustments are made as necessary to the financial statements of or which are chargeable or deductible in other accounting periods.
subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the carrying amounts of assets and All inter-company transactions and balances between Group companies are liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax eliminated on consolidation.
bases used in the calculation of taxable profit.
About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial information 67 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that under operating leases are charged to work in progress or income on a taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases classified as differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all finance leases are those where substantially all of the risks and rewards of temporary differences.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates enacted at the ownership pass to the lessee.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a Deferred tax is credited or charged in the income statement, statement of finance lease obligation.
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, or retained earnings as appropriate.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value less cash Intangible Assets Computer Software on account.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of costs incurred to bring to use the specific software and are amortised over their Cost comprises land and associated acquisition costs, direct materials and estimated useful lives of three years.
These are reviewed for impairment subcontract work, other direct costs and those overheads based on normal whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying operating capacity that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to values may not be recoverable.
their present location and condition, excluding borrowing costs.
Property, Plant and Equipment The Group differentiates its inventories into two categories: Freehold property comprises offices or other buildings held for administrative purposes.
Freehold property is shown at cost less the a Type 1: land where generally the construction of homes had subsequent depreciation of buildings.
commenced at the year end and which was generally short to medium term in its development horizon.
This category also includes All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less undeveloped land on which housebuild had not commenced at 30 June depreciation.
Historic cost includes any costs directly attributable to bringing 2011 but which the Group believes it is more likely to develop than to the assets to the location and condition necessary for them to be capable of sell undeveloped.
operating in the manner intended by management.
b Type 2: land where housebuild had not commenced and land could be identified as a distinct parcel.
This land is more generally medium to Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets, is charged so as to long term in time horizon and the Group believes it is more likely to be write off the cost of assets to their residual values over their estimated sold undeveloped.
useful lives, on a straight line basis as follows: Buildings 50 years Net realisable value for land where construction of homes had commenced Plant & machinery 5 10 years at the year end Type 1 was assessed by estimating selling prices and cost Fixtures & fittings 3 5 years including sales and marketing expenses, taking into account current market conditions.
The assets useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
The net realisable value of land where housebuild had not commenced Type 2 and is more likely to be sold undeveloped was assessed by reThese are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in appraising the land using current selling prices and costs for the proposed circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
development and assuming an appropriate financial return to reflect the current housing market conditions and the prevailing financing The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset represents the difference environment.
This net realisable value represents valuing the land at the between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is amount the Group estimates it could be sold for at the balance sheet date recognised in the income statement.
less estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Non-current assets held for sale This net realisable value provision will be closely monitored for adequacy Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying and appropriateness as regards under and over provision to reflect amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is circumstances at future balance sheet dates.
This will include consideration considered highly probable.
They are stated at managements best estimate of the continued appropriateness of the allocation of sites between Type 1 of realisable value less estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Any material change to the underlying provision will be reflected through cost of sales as an exceptional item.
Investment in Subsidiary Companies In the parent company books, the investment in its subsidiaries is held at Cash and Cash Equivalents cost less any impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, forming an integral part of the Leases Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial information 68 Accounting policies Borrowings and Trade Payables c Share-based payments Interest bearing borrowings and trade payables are recorded at the proceeds The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
received, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently at amortised In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs and the grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002, which had not vested redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of as of 1 July 2004.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair the borrowings.
value on the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually Forward Land vest.
Expenditure relating to forward land excluding owned sites without residential planning consent but including options, fees etc is provided for d Termination benefits when incurred.
After exercise of an option and acquisition of land following Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the the securing of planning permission, the provisions relating to that land are Group before normal retirement date by redundancy.
Expenditure incurred on owned sites without residential planning recognised by the Group in the period in which it becomes demonstrably consent is included in inventories and is subject to a regular impairment committed to terminating the employment of current employees according review.
to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal.
Employee Benefits Financial Instruments a Pension obligation a Land creditors The Group operates a contributory pension scheme for all its staff.
The Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at discounted scheme is externally invested and comprises two sections: a defined benefit present value using the effective interest method, in accordance with IAS 39. section and a defined contribution section.
A defined benefit plan is a The difference between the fair value and the nominal value is amortised pension plan which defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee over the deferment period via financing costs.
It is funded through payments to trustee administered funds, determined by actuarial valuations carried out on at The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available on the date of least a triennial basis.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under the land purchase.
which the Group pays agreed contributions into a separate fund for each employee and any subsequent pension payable to a specific employee is b Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting determined by the amount accumulated in their individual fund.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value and the fair value is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit section of the scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of plan assets.
The The Groups use of financial derivatives is governed by an interest rate risk defined benefit obligation is determined using the projected unit credit management framework adopted by the Board which sets parameters to method on an annual basis by an independent scheme actuary.
ensure an appropriate level of hedging is maintained to manage interest rate risk in respect of borrowings.
Under IAS 19, revised December 2004, the Group has taken the option to allow actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and The policy prohibits any trading in derivative financial instruments or their changes in actuarial assumptions to be charged or credited to equity as they use for speculative purposes.
arise in full via the statement of comprehensive income.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial Scheme service costs are charged to gross contribution and administrative instruments which are designated and which qualify as cash flow hedges are expenses as appropriate and scheme finance costs are included in net recognised directly in equity in a hedge reserve.
The gains or losses relating financing costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent to the ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement that the benefits are already vested, or otherwise amortised on a straight immediately they arise.
line basis over the vesting period, if they are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a further period.
c Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or In respect of the defined contribution section of the scheme, determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months due.
The Group has no further payment obligations in respect of the defined after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
contribution section of the Scheme once the contributions have been paid.
Loans and receivables are classified as trade receivables and other receivables in the balance sheet note 12. b Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where Trade receivables are held at discounted present value less any impairment.
The amount is then increased to settlement value over the settlement period via financing income.
About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial information 69 Onerous Contracts transition provisions as included in the amendment to IFRS 7 regarding Onerous contracts are contracts in which the unavoidable costs in meeting comparative information for the new three level classification disclosures.
the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected This is not relevant to the Group.
Provision is made to reflect managements best current estimate of the least net cost of either fulfilling or exiting the IFRIC 15, arrangements for construction of real estates.
clarifies which standard IAS 18, Revenue, or IAS 11, Construction contracts should be applied to particular transactions and is likely to mean Share Capital that IAS 18 will be applied to a wider range of transactions.
Effective for Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Not relevant for the Group as no use of construction contracts.
Dividend Distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a IFRIC 19, 'Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments'.
This liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the interpretation clarifies the accounting when an entity renegotiates the dividends are declared and paid.
terms of its debt with the result that the liability is extinguished through the debtor issuing its own equity instruments to the creditor.
Not relevant for Impact Of New Standards And Interpretation the Group.
a New Standards Annual Improvements 2010: This set of amendments includes changes to six c. New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective standards and one IFRIC.
One such amendment is to IAS 1 Presentation of for the financial year beginning 1 July 2010 and not early adopted Financial Statements relating to the statement of changes in equity.
This IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benefits.
This amendment makes clarifies that entities may present the required reconciliations for each significant changes to the recognition and measurement of defined benefit component of other comprehensive income either in the statement of pension expense and termination benefits, and to the disclosures for all changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements.
The changes will affect most entities that apply IAS 19. have opted to present the reconciliations for each component in the notes.
They could significantly change a number of performance indicators and might also significantly increase the volume of disclosures.
This is effective b New and amended standards, and interpretations mandatory for the first for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group have not time for the financial year beginning 1 July 2010 but not currently assessed the full impact of this standard, and will adopt this for the first relevant to the group time for the year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
Annual Improvements 2009: This is a collection of amendments to 12 standards as part of the IASB program of annual improvements.
The latest Amendment to IAS 1 Financial Statement presentation on other amendments were included in exposure drafts published in October 2007, comprehensive income.
This amendment changes the disclosure of items August 2008 and January 2009.
Most of the amendments are effective for presented in other comprehensive income OCI in the statement of annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The impact is comprehensive income.
The IASB originally proposed that all entities should insignificant.
present profit or loss and OCI together in a single statement of comprehensive income.
The proposal has been withdrawn and IAS 1 will still Amendment to IFRS 2, share based payments group cash settled share permit profit or loss and OCI to be presented in either a single statement or based payment transactions.
These amendments provide a clear basis to in two consecutive statements.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or determine the classification of share based payment awards in both after 1 July 2012.
The Group have not assessed the full impact of this consolidated and separate financial statements.
Effective for annual periods standard, and will adopt this for the first time for the year beginning 1 July beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
This is not relevant to the Group as 2012, subject to endorsement by the EU.
there are no cash settled share based payments.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments on classification and measurement of financial Amendments to IFRS 1 for additional exemptions.
This is the first part of a new standard on classification and exempt entities using the full cost method from retrospective application of measurement of financial assets that will replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has two IFRSs for oil and gas assets and exempt entities with existing leasing measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity contracts from reassessing the classification of those contracts in instruments are measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is at amortised accordance with IFRIC 4.
This is not relevant to the Group.
cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent principal and interest.
Otherwise it is at fair value Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: presentation on classification through profit or loss.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January of rights issues.
The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues 2013.
The Group have not assessed the full impact of this standard, and will rights, options or warrants that are denominated in a currency other than adopt this for the first time for the year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to the functional currency of the issuer.
Effective for annual periods beginning endorsement by the EU.
This standard builds on existing Amendment to IFRS 1, first time adoption on financial instrument principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in disclosures.
This amendment provides first-time adopters with the same whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial information 70 Accounting policies statements.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in Amendments to IFRS 1 first time adoption on hyperinflationary and fixed determining control where this is difficult to assess.
This new standard might dates.
Not expected to be relevant to the Group.
impact the entities that a group consolidates as its subsidiaries.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group have not assessed Amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes on deferred tax.
Currently IAS 12, the full impact of this standard, and will adopt this for the first time for the 'Income taxes', requires an entity to measure the deferred tax relating to an year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
asset depending on whether the entity expects to recover the carrying amount of the asset through use or sale.
It can be difficult and subjective to IFRS 27 revised, Separate financial statements.
This standard includes the assess whether recovery will be through use or through sale when the asset provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control is measured using the fair value model in IAS 40 Investment Property.
Not provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10.
Effective for expected to be relevant to the Group.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group will adopt this for the first time for the year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to endorsement by IFRS 9 Financial instruments on classification and measurement of financial the EU.
These are further addition of IFRS 9 dealing with financial liabilities.
The additions, which are part of the IASB's plan to replace IAS 39, IFRS 11 Joint arrangements.
This standard provides for a more realistic retain most of the IAS 39 requirements.
These include amortised cost reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of accounting for most financial liabilities, with bifurcation of embedded the arrangement, rather than its legal form.
There are two types of joint derivatives.
The main change in the additions is that in cases where the fair arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint operations arise value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change where a joint operator has rights to the assets and obligations relating to due to an entity's own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income the arrangement and hence accounts for its interest in assets, liabilities, rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting revenue and expenses.
Joint ventures arise where the joint operator has mismatch.
This change will mainly affect financial institutions.
Not expected rights to the net assets of the arrangement and hence equity accounts for to be relevant to the Group.
Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed.
The Group have IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities.
This standard includes the not assessed the full impact of this standard, and will adopt this for the first disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including time for the year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
IAS 28 revised, Investments in associates and joint ventures.
This standard includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement.
equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
Effective for periods This amendment will have a limited impact as it applies only to companies beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group will adopt this for the first that are required to make minimum funding contributions to a defined time for the year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
This standard aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a IFRIC 18.
'Transfer of assets from customers'.
This interpretation clarifies the single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use accounting for arrangements where an item of property, plant and across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRSs and equipment, which is provided by the customer, is used to provide an ongoing US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide service.
guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
The Group have not assessed the full impact of this standard, and will adopt this for the first time for the year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
IAS 24 revised, related party disclosures.
This amendment removes the requirement for government related entities to disclose details of all transactions with the government and other government-related entities and it clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party.
Amendments to IFRS 7 on derecognition.
These amendments are part of the IASBs comprehensive review of off balance sheet activities.
The amendments will promote transparency in the reporting of transfer transactions and improve users' understanding of the risk exposures relating to transfers of financial assets and the effect of those risks on an entitys financial position, particularly those involving securitisation of financial asset.
