FInAncIAl StAtEmEntS And othER InFoRmAtIon 190 ShAREhOLdER iNFORmATiON Shareholder information Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 Information for Reed Elsevier Plc The Annual Reports and Financial Statements for the Reed ordinary shareholders Elsevier combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV for the year ended 31 december 2011, and the Shareholder services Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV are The Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share register is administered available on the Reed Elsevier website, and from the registered byEquiniti Limited.
Equiniti provides a free online portal for offices of the respective parent companies shown on page 192. shareholders at www.
Shareview provides Additional financial information, including the interim and Full shareholders with instant access to details of their shareholding Year Results Announcements, interim management Statements and dividend payments, with the ability to update personal details and presentations is also available on the Reed Elsevier website and to register a bank mandate.
Equinitis contact details appear www.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements set out in the Annual Reports and Financial Statements are expressed in Electronic communications sterling, with summary combined financial information expressed While hard copy shareholder communications continue to be in euros.
The financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed available to those shareholders actively requesting them, in Elsevier NV are expressed in sterling and euros respectively.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and its Articles of Association, Reed Elsevier PLC uses the Reed Elsevier website Interim results asthe main method of communicating with shareholders.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV no longer publish interim Byregistering their details online at Shareview, shareholders results in hard copy.
The interim results are available on the Reed canbe notified by email when shareholder communications Elsevier website.
Shareholders can also use the Shareview website to appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at Share price information shareholder meetings.
Reed Elsevier PLCs ordinary shares are quoted on the London Shareholders who hold their Reed Elsevier PLC shares through Stock Exchange.
CREST may appoint proxies for shareholder meetings through Reed Elsevier NVs ordinary shares are quoted on the Euronext theCREST electronic proxy appointment service by using the Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
procedures described in the CREST manual.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are dividend mandates quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid depositary Shares AdSs, evidenced by American depositary directlyinto a uK bank or building society account.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC AdR represents four ofpayment reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Each Reed Elsevier NV AdR inthe post and ensures the account is credited on the dividend represents two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
A dividend mandate form can be obtained online The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share atwww.
co. uk, or by contacting Equiniti at the address prices and the AdR prices may be obtained from the Reed Elsevier shown on page 192. website, other online sources and the financial pages of some Equiniti has established a service for overseas shareholders in newspapers.
over 30 countries, which enables shareholders to have their FOR FuRThER iNFORmATiON ViSiT www.
com dividends automatically converted from sterling and paid directly into their nominated bank account.
Further details of this service, and the fees applicable, are available at www.
co. uk or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 192. dividend Reinvestment Plan Shareholders can choose to reinvest their Reed Elsevier PLC dividends by purchasing further shares through the dividend Reinvestment Plan dRiP provided by Equiniti.
Further information concerning the dRiP facility, together with the terms and conditions and an application form can be obtained online at www.
co. uk dividends or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 192.
Share dealing service A telephone and internet dealing service is available through ReedElsevier PLCs Registrar, which provides a simple way for uK-resident shareholders to buy or sell Reed Elsevier PLC shares.
For telephone dealing call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on to www.
You will need your shareholder account number shown on your dividend tax voucher.
indd 190 08 03 2012 08:20 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 191 Individual savings accounts ISA dividends A single company iSA for Reed Elsevier PLC shares is dividends on Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are declared and availablethrough Equiniti.
details may be obtained from paid in euros.
Registered shareholders in Reed Elsevier NV will www.
co. uk iSA, by writing to Equiniti at the address receive dividends from the company by transmission to the bank shown on page 192, or by calling their iSA helpline on 0871 384 2244. account which they have notified to the company.
dividends on shares in bearer form are paid through the intermediary of a bank Sharegift or broker.
The Orr mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose dividend Reinvestment Plan value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
details of the scheme By instructing their bank or intermediary, shareholders can canbe obtained from the ShareGift website at www.
org, choose to reinvest their Reed Elsevier NV dividends by purchasing or by telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737. further shares through the dividend Reinvestment Plan dRiP provided by Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. Further information Sub-division of ordinary shares and share consolidation concerning the dRiP facility can be obtained online at On 28 July 1986 each Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share of 1 www.
nominal value was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p each.
On 2 may 1997 each 25p ordinary share was sub-divided into consolidation of ordinary shares two ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
On 7 January 2008 the ordinary On 7 January 2008 each Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share of 0.06 shares of 12.5p each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new ordinary shares of 51 ordinary shares of 14 116p nominal value for every 67 ordinary 0.07 each for every 67 ordinary shares of 0.06 held.
Information for Reed Elsevier Plc and capital gains tax Reed Elsevier nv AdRholders The mid-market price of Reed Elsevier PLCs 1 ordinary shares on 31 march 1982 was 282p.
Adjusting for the sub-divisions and The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV AdR depositary is share consolidation referred to above, results in an equivalent BNY mellon.
Reed Elsevier PLCs CuSiP number is 758205207 mid-market price of 40.72p for each existing ordinary share of 51 andits trading symbol is RuK.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC AdR 14 116p nominal value.
represents four Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Reed Elsevier NVs CuSiP number is 758204200 and its trading symbol is ENL.
warning to shareholders unsolicited investment advice Each Reed Elsevier NV AdR represents two Reed Elsevier NV many companies have become aware that their shareholders have ordinary shares.
received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based AdR shareholder services brokers who target uK shareholders, offering to sell them what Enquiries concerning Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in uS or uK AdRs should be addressed to the AdR depositary at the address investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler shown on page 192. room scams.
dividends Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited dividend payments on Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company AdRs are converted into uS dollars by the AdR depositary.
if you receive any unsolicited investment advice, check that the person or organisation is properly authorised by the FSA Annual Report on Form 20-F before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register and The Annual Report on Form 20-F for the Reed Elsevier combined contacting the firm using the details on the register.
if you deal businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV will be filed with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive electronically with the united States Securities and Exchange payment under the Financial Service Compensation Scheme.
A copy of Form 20-F for the year ended 31 december The FSA can be contacted at www.
uk pages doing 2011 will be available on the Reed Elsevier website, or from the regulated law alerts overseas.
AdR depositary at the address shown on page 192.
Information for Reed Elsevier nv ordinary shareholders Shareholder enquiries Enquiries from holders of Reed Elsevier NV registered ordinary shares in relation to share transfers, dividends, change of address and bank accounts should be directed to the Company Secretary ofReed Elsevier NV, at the registered office address shown on page 192.
indd 191 08 03 2012 08:20 FInAncIAl StAtEmEntS And othER InFoRmAtIon 192 CONTACTS Contacts Reed Elsevier Plc Reed Elsevier nv 1-3 Strand Radarweg 29 London WC2N 5JR 1043 NX Amsterdam united Kingdom The Netherlands Tel: 44 0 20 7930 7077 Tel: 31 0 20 485 2222 Fax: 44 0 20 7166 5799 Fax: 31 0 20 485 2032 Auditors deloitte LLP deloitte Accountants B. V. 2 New Street Square Orlyplein 10 London EC4A 3BZ 1043 dP Amsterdam united Kingdom The Netherlands Registrar listing paying agent Equiniti Limited Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. Aspect house Gustav mahlerlaan 10 Spencer Road 1082 PP Amsterdam Lancing The Netherlands West Sussex BN99 6dA www.
co. Uk Tel: 0871 384 2960 calls charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, other telephony providers costs may vary Tel: 44 121 415 7047 non-uK callers Reed Elsevier Plc and Reed Elsevier nv AdR depositary BNY mellon AdRs PO Box 358516 Pittsburgh PA15252-8516 uSA www.
