Shareholder information Corporate directory Secretary and Registered Office Tim Regan, Company Secretary Regus plc Socit Anonyme Registered Office: Registered Head Office: 22 Grenville Street 26 Boulevard Royal St Helier L-2449 Luxembourg Jersey JE4 8PX Registered Number Jersey Luxembourg 101523 R. C. S. B 141 159 Registrars Equiniti Jersey Limited PO Box 63 11 12 Esplanade St Helier Jersey JE4 8PH Auditor KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. 9 alle Scheffer L-2520 Luxembourg Legal advisers to the Company as to English law Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row London EC1Y 8YY Legal advisers to the Company as to Luxembourg law Noble & Scheidecker Avocats la Cour 398, route dEsch L-1471 Luxembourg Corporate Stockbrokers Investec Bank plc 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP Goldman Sachs Peterborough Court 133 Fleet Street London EC4A 2BB Reservations UK telephone: 0870 880 8484 US telephone: 1.877.
com investors 93 Shareholder and Other Information Shareholder information continued Glossary Available workstations The total number of workstations in the Group also termed Inventory.
During the year, this is expressed as a weighted average.
At period ends the absolute number is used.
Centre Contribution Gross profit comprising centre revenues less direct operating expenses but before administrative expenses EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDAR Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent Enquiries Client enquiries about Regus products or services Expansions A general term which includes new business centres established by Regus and acquired centres in the year Forward Order Book The future workstation revenue already contracted with clients at a point in time Like for like The financial performance from centres owned and operated for a full 12 months prior to the start of the financial year which therefore have a full year comparative Mature business Operations owned for a full 12 month period prior to the start of the financial year which therefore have a full year comparative Occupancy Occupied workstations divided by available workstations expressed as a percentage Occupied workstations Workstations which are in use by clients.
This is expressed as a weighted average for the year.
REVPAW Total revenue per available workstations Revenue Available workstations REVPOW Total revenue per occupied workstation WIPOW Workstation income per occupied workstation 94 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an international network which promotes responsible management of the worlds forests.
Forest certication is combined with asystem of product labelling that allows consumers to readily identify timber-based products from certied forests.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc | www.
com Printed in England by the Pureprint Group Regus plc S. A. s plc S. A.
26 Boulevar ulevard d Royal R Roya L-2449 Luxembourg Luxem mbourg www.
