40 NOTICE OF MEETING tHIs document Is Important and reQuIres your ImmedIate iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion attentIon.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, of the AGM to be held in 2012 and 31st December 2012 unless such you are recommended immediately to seek your own personal financial authority is renewed prior to such time: and advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which services and markets act 2000. contract will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in renishaw such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to plc, you should pass this document and the accompanying form of proxy such contract.
without delay to the stockbroker, bank or other person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now By order of the Board Registered office: holds the shares.
New Mills Notice is hereby given that the 38th annual general meeting AGM of the N Tang Wotton-under-Edge Company will be held at New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire GL12 Company Secretary Gloucestershire 8JR on Thursday 13th October 2011 at noon.
You will be asked to consider and, if GL12 8JR thought fit, pass the resolutions below.
Resolution 14 will be proposed as a special 19th August 2011 resolution.
This means that for this resolution to be passed, at least three-quarters Renishaw plc of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
All other resolutions will be Registered in England and Wales under number: 1106260 proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of these resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
A form of proxy is provided with this Notice for members.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and auditors and the financial to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of the members rights to statements for the year ended 30th June 2011: attend and to speak and vote at the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to 2.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 30th June 2011: exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
To re-elect as a director Sir David McMurtry, a director retiring voluntarily and a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy and therefore requires additional who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: proxy forms, the member should contact Equiniti Limited on 0871 384 2169.
Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline, other providers costs 4.
To re-elect as director John Deer, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Overseas eligible, offers himself for re-election: shareholders should call 44 121 415 7047.
To re-elect as director Ben Taylor, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being 2.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting for eligible, offers himself for re-election: the members vote to be counted.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
To re-elect as director Allen Roberts, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 3.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at Equiniti Limited, Aspect 7.
To re-elect as a director Geoff McFarland, a director retiring voluntarily and House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL or the proxy appointment who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: must be lodged using the CREST Proxy Voting Service, in accordance with Note 7 below, no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
To re-elect as a director Terry Garthwaite, a director retiring voluntarily and Amended instructions must also be received by the Companys registrars by the who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: deadline for receipt of proxy forms.
To re-elect as a director David Snowden, a director retiring voluntarily and 4.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such instrument will not prevent who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: a member from attending the meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
To re-elect as a director Bill Whiteley, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 5.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended and for the purposes of section 360B Companies Act 2006, the 11.
To approve the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30th June Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or 2011 contained in the Annual Report 2011: any adjournment and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the 12.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company, to hold office from votes they may cast, members must be registered in the Register of Members of the conclusion of the meeting to the conclusion of the next meeting at which the Company as at 6pm on 11th October 2011 or for any adjourned meeting, 6pm accounts are laid before the meeting: on the day which is 2 days before the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the 13.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors: rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described 14.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution: in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service That the Company be and is hereby unconditionally authorised for the provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of 20p each in the capital of the Company 7.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service ordinary shares provided that: to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear specifications and must i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST purchased is 7,278,854: Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy ii the maximum price that may be paid for an ordinary share is an must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased and ii Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-Back and Stabilisation enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change Regulation 2003: of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 20p: 41 8.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures statement setting out the grounds for the request.
in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations 17.
As at 18th August 2011 being the last business day prior to the publication of will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 72,788,543 ordinary responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting at 18th August 2011 are 72,788,543.
There are no other classes of shares or any service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s shares held in treasury.
take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
Copies of the following documents are available for inspection at the registered members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers office of the Company during normal business hours 8.00am - 4.15pm, excluding are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning weekends and public holidays : practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The CREST Manual can be a service contracts of the executive directors: and reviewed at www.
b letters of appointment of the non-executive directors.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
All documents will be available for inspection at the above locations from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the AGM, and will also be available 10.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of meeting for inspection at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before it is held until or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the its conclusion.
Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING provided that, if it is appointing more than one corporate representative, it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
Resolution 1 Reports of Directors and Financial statements The directors must present the report of the directors and the auditors and the accounts 12.
Any person receiving a copy of this notice as a person nominated by a member under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a of the Company for the year ended 30th June 2011 to the shareholders at the AGM.
Nominated Person should note the provisions in this notice concerning the Resolution 2 Final dividend appointment of a proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in place of a member, do not apply to a Nominated Person as only shareholders have the right to appoint a The directors recommend that a final dividend of 24.7p per share be paid to each proxy.
However, a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her shareholder on the register of members as at the close of business on the day 48 hours and the member by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or prior to the payment of such dividend.
to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person Resolutions 3 to 10 inclusive Re-election of directors has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors the exercise of voting rights.
will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Short biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 20 and 21 and full details 13.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold are available on www.
It is considered that each of the non-executive requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to directors continue to contribute to the performance of the Board and demonstrate their publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit commitment to their roles, and therefore should be re-elected.
of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or ii any circumstance connected Resolution 11 Remuneration report with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of Listed companies are required to prepare a Directors remuneration report and put a resolution to approve the report to the shareholders at the AGM.
The Directors the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting remuneration report is set out on page 39. any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a Resolution 12 Re-appointment of auditors statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt are laid before shareholders, to hold office until the end of the next such meeting.
with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue as auditors and resolution 12 under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
proposes its re-appointment as the Companys auditors.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company Resolution 13 Remuneration of auditors must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being This resolution seeks authority for the directors to decide the auditors remuneration.
dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of Resolution 14 Market purchase of own shares by the Company confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in This resolution renews the previous authority granted on 14th October 2010 which the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
The resolution authorises the Company Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
The authority limits the number 15.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 7,278,854 representing 10% of Companies Act 2006, can be found in the copy of the Annual report and accounts the issued share capital of the Company and sets minimum and maximum prices.
authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys next AGM.
Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter under review, taking into account Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the market conditions, the cash reserves of the Company, the Companys share price, meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to appropriate gearing levels, other investment opportunities and the overall financial be moved at the meeting and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at position of the Company.
The authority will be exercised only if to do so would be likely the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may Any purchases of ordinary shares would most likely be by means of market purchases properly be included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only through the London Stock Exchange.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any of the Companys next AGM or, if earlier, 18 months from the date of this resolution.
enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than Wednesday 31st August 2011, being the date 6 clear weeks before the meeting, and in the
