76 FOCUS ON THE FAR EAST As early as the 1980s, Renishaw first recognised the potential of the Far East markets, opening a subsidiary office in Japan and also exhibiting products in China.
In 1993 the Company established a subsidiary office in Hong Kong.
This initiated a programme of investment that has grown steadily ever since.
FOCUS ON THE FAR EAST In 1994 we opened offices and subsidiaries in Beijing aerospace industry.
R&D is rapidly moving forward, fed by the and Singapore.
In 1999 we invested in Korea a country endless graduates emerging from state-of-the-art universities that was then making huge strides in advanced throughout the region.
Local manufacturers are constantly technology.
We then invested in Taiwan another fast being pushed up the value chain, with their high-tech products moving economy in 2000, Australia in 2001, Thailand and topping western shopping lists as well as meeting Chinas own Malaysia in 2006 and Indonesia in 2008.
In 2005 we were sky-rocketing needs.
China now aims to focus on and produce among the first to open a 100% foreign-owned trading goods of the highest quality.
And this is very good news company in China, when we established a subsidiary in for Renishaw.
We continue to invest in high quality sales and We foresaw Chinas exciting future.
To our great benefit, service operations, and now have nine offices across we are now realising the potential here for our portfolio of China, where we will soon have over 100 employees.
quality and process control products.
But we arent alone: The growth experienced in China has been truly staggering, global interest and investment is widespread and steadily and in 2011 accounted for 19% of total group sales.
increasing as the West turns to China for growth.
Its widely No longer home to primarily cheap and cheerful goods, acknowledged that this makes China the most competitive China has grown up.
In the years since 1993 it has market on earth.
Fortunately, with innovation firmly at our core become the Worlds Factory, the second largest global economy.
and constant development in our sights, Renishaw looks Now China leads the world both in the manufacturing and particularly well-placed to meet any competition head-on.
consumption of cars and is also vigorously forging ahead in the The machining floor at Shenyang Machine Tool Group Co. Ltd SMTCL 77 We foresaw Chinas exciting future and, to our substantial benefit, are now realising the potential for our portfolio of quality and process control products here.
INTERVIEW WITH JEAN-MARC MEFFRE, MD OF RENISHAW HONG KONG LTD Q: Based on your experiences, what differences peoples views.
What we mustnt do is try to impose the companies we deal with, the speed at which are there between Asian and European markets?
our ways upon a world theyre not suited for.
the countrys infrastructure is being built and the In 1988 I began working for Renishaw in France Renishaw has an excellent reputation in the amazing progress that is achieved year on year.
and probing techniques were not well known.
We Far East for expertise and support for a host of had to sell a concept before we could sell a product.
applications, and this is where I believe we can Q: Whats next for Renishaw in the region?
This was a steep and difficult learning curve for make a real difference.
Despite the tendency of most companies to potential users who were unaware of the benefits.
focus specifically on China, its my belief that we Ten years later I moved to Hong Kong and faced Q: How do the Chinese approach business?
should diversify and continue to build our presence the same problem, but this time it was magnified I think Westerners have many misconceptions in other Asian markets.
Having already proven because manufacturing was mainly low-tech.
The about the Chinese, as the Chinese do of us.
that being first in brings significant competitive Chinese didnt need probes.
Time doesnt have the same value here, so, even advantage in the market, we are already developing Now, of course, all that has changed.
I believe though things get done quickly, building long-term our presence in the rapidly growing economies of were at the start of the kind of intensive automated relationships is what really matters.
This applies Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam.
manufacturing seen 15 years ago in the West.
whether a relationship is commercial or personal.
In this region, however, intra-trade takes Once your company is accepted the Chinese are precedence over Western-led export, and all these Q: What are the main challenges you have had trusting and reliable business partners with a keen economies rely on Chinas performance.
Once a personal relationship succeed on its strength in Asian markets, and is not Asia is a vast continent, very different both based on mutual trust and understanding develops, looking to the US or Europe exclusively to spur its in size and culture to Western countries.
But you are accepted and youve made a very growth.
That is one of the compelling reasons for the benefit of being European is our historical caring friend.
believing in Chinas, and Asias, continuing success, understanding that different countries have different and for making the region an on-going priority for personalities.
This helps us better appreciate the Q: Is there anything that still surprises you about Renishaws sales and future growth.
gaps between Eastern and Western culture and the country?
We are aware that we must constantly Coming from Europe, the sheer size of this remain open to different ways of thinking and adapt region and its population is a constant surprise.
to different practices, always respecting other Its impossible to remain indifferent to the size of Renishaw plc New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge Gloucestershire GL12 8JR United Kingdom T 44 0 1453 524524 F 44 0 1453 524901 E uk@renishaw.
com Designed and produced by Farrow Branding.
Printed by Park Lane Press using the waterless printing method and vegetable oil-based inks which eliminates water consumption and the release of volatile organic compounds VOCs into the atmosphere.
This Annual report is printed on Perfect Image FSC Forest Stewardship Council which provides the independent assurance of responsible forest management.
Park Lane offsets their site emissions with the Pure Trust Charity.
This organisation supports offset projects in India, Costa Rica, China and Brazil, thus enabling Park Lane to help enhance livelihoods in these developing countries.
All projects have a Gold Standard rating and are recommended by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in the UK.
In addition 95% of waste is recycled and 99% of paper used is either recycled and or FSC accredited.
Park Lane Press are certified to ISO 14001 for their environmental management programme.
