Accounting policies All rental income received or receivable in respect of rental assets is Financial instruments accounted for on an operating lease basis.
Income from the rental of Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the these assets is credited to revenue on a strict time-apportioned basis.
group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party c Interest income to such provisions.
Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the Financial assets estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest The group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised either receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification as cash is collected or on a cost-recovery basis as conditions warrant.
depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial Taxation recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
objective evidence that financial assets are impaired.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also All financial assets are held at amortised cost except for derivatives, recognised in equity.
which are classified as held for trading unless in a hedging relationship and certain assets classified as available-for-sale, which are held at The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws fair value.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the companys subsidiaries and associates operate a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates Assets are classified as current if they are expected to be realised within positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which 12 months of the balance sheet date.
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to b Loans and receivables be paid to the tax authorities.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They Leases arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months from the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at and receivables include trade and other receivables and cash and other the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value equivalents.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated using the effective interest rate method, subject to impairment.
between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
c Available-for-sale financial assets The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either included in other payables.
The interest element of the finance cost is designated in this category or not classified in any of the other charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired sheet date.
under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life Available-for-sale investments are fair valued and changes to market of the asset or the lease term.
values are recognised in equity.
On subsequent disposal or impairment, Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in equity, are ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
recognised in the income statement as gains and losses from Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received investment securities.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of basis over the period of the lease.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of Dividend distribution the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available for-sale Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised as a financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which the between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the dividends are recognised when paid.
income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
68 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
