Governance Governance safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect Statement of directors fraud and other irregularities.
responsibilities in respect of the annual Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors report and the financial statements Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors the group and parent company financial statements in accordance are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires corporate and financial information included on the companys the directors to prepare group and parent company financial website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with in other jurisdictions.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected Each of the directors, whose name and functions are set out on to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance pages 26 to 27, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Under company law the directors must not approve the financial of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company as a whole: and and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are b the directors report includes a fair review of the development required to: and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties consistently: that they face.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: On behalf of the board, for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and Paul Griffiths prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Company Secretary unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the 1 March 2012 parent company will continue in business.
Registered office: The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 2 City Place records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Beehive Ring Road companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Gatwick Airport at any time the financial position of the parent company and West Sussex enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply RH6 0HA with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to Registered in England and Wales No.
5393279 Cautionary Statement This report contains statements that are, or may be, forward-looking regarding the groups financial position and results, business strategy, plans and objectives.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances and there are accordingly a number of factors which might cause actual results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and no representation or warranty, whether expressed or implied, is given in relation to them, including as to their completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
Other than in accordance with the companys legal or regulatory obligations including under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Information contained in this announcement relating to the company or its share price, or the yield on its shares, should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance.
Nothing in this announcement should be construed as a profit forecast.
41 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
