Financial statements Accounting policies c Reacquired franchise rights Intangible assets Reacquired franchise rights acquired as part of a business combination Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and in City Link represents the benefit to the group from the right to accumulated impairment losses, where applicable.
The main categories operate in certain geographical regions.
These are initially measured of intangible assets are as follows: at fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining contractual period of the franchise agreements which terminated on Intangible assets indefinite useful lives 25 October 2010.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair d Computer software value of the groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill in respect costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software and of business combinations made since 1 January 1998 is included in are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Goodwill on the acquisition of associates is included Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are in investments in associates.
Goodwill in respect of the acquisition recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated of subsidiaries made prior to 1 January 1998 remains eliminated with the production of identifiable and unique software products against reserves.
controlled by the group, and that will probably generate economic Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible accumulated impairment losses.
Direct costs include the software development, employee costs recognised are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Gains and losses on the Computer software development costs recognised as assets are disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating amortised over their estimated useful lives.
e Research and development Intangible assets finite useful lives Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs Intangible assets with finite useful lives are initially measured at either incurred on development projects relating to the design and testing cost or fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful of new or improved products are recognised as intangible assets economic lives, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
The fair value when it is probable that the project will be a success considering its attributable to intangible assets acquired through a business commercial and technological feasibility and only if the cost can be combination is determined by discounting the expected future cash measured reliably.
flows to be generated from that asset at the risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital for the group.
The residual values of intangible Other development expenditure is recognised as an expense assets are assumed to be nil.
The estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets are as follows: Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development costs Customer lists and relationships: 5 to 16 years that have been capitalised are amortised from the date the product Brands and patents: 2 to 15 years is available for use on a straight-line basis over the period of its Reacquired franchise rights: 3 to 5 years expected benefit.
Computer software: 3 to 5 years The following are the main categories of intangible assets: Inventories a Customer lists and relationships Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Customer lists and portfolios acquired as part of a business combination Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
are initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises design over their useful economic lives.
Separate values are not attributed to costs, raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related internally generated customer lists or relationships.
production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the b Brands and patents ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Brands and patents acquired as part of a business combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis Trade receivables over their useful economic lives.
Expenditure incurred to develop, Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently maintain and renew brands and patents internally is recognised as an measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less expense in the period incurred.
Separate values are not attributed to provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade internally generated brands and patents.
receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
65 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
