Governance deliver a total reward package that is market aligned and Remuneration policy provides upside for exceptional business performance whilst The committee reviews the total reward packages of the executive being affordable directors and senior executives regularly to ensure ongoing encourage executive behaviours consistent with Rentokil effectiveness and competitiveness.
The committee takes advice Initials business values from Deloitte with market surveys prepared by Towers Watson.
The companys remuneration policy for the executive directors and senior colleagues is designed to: Total reward attract and retain the leadership talent necessary to drive and The remuneration policy is underpinned by a set of principles that deliver business growth, financial performance and other key are reflected in all elements of the executive total reward package, strategic priorities summarised below.
Further detail is provided in this report.
recognise and reward individual contributions to delivering long-term, sustainable business performance ensure alignment of executives with the overall shareholder objective of long-term value creation through linking a substantial part of the remuneration package to long-term performance targets Summary of remuneration policy Element Objective Principles and operation Performance measure Base salary To attract and Set after taking into account the market competitive range for Delivery against key personal retain the best companies of a similar size and complexity, individual skills and objectives.
experience, contribution to overall business performance, pay and conditions across the group and external market conditions.
Salaries are reviewed annually and set on 1 January.
Annual bonus To motivate Set at a market competitive level providing that target Group and divisional profit, cash Annual cash executives to financial, operational and personal targets are achieved.
flow, revenue and other key incentive deliver annual strategic performance targets.
financial, Recognises exceptional business performance and individual strategic and contribution to that performance.
The personal performance operational modifier that can both increase goals.
The structure is reviewed annually to ensure that it continues and decrease the bonus payout to support the businesss short-term and long-term goals.
is based on the outcome of the companys performance The annual bonus is normally paid in cash in March each year.
Maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of salary.
Personal performance modifier can increase this to 120% of base salary.
44 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011 Governance Governance Element Objective Principles and operation Performance measure Long-term To motivate Set at a market competitive level, relative to companies of Performance conditions are incentive and incentivise comparable size and complexity.
intended to reward achievements The delivery of against financial performance and Performance performance Award levels and performance conditions are reviewed the creation of shareholder value.
Share Plan over the longannually to ensure they continue to support the businesss The PSP term.
Awards subject to Total Shareholder Return performance against FTSE Awards are made in Q2 each year and vest three years 350 excluding Financial Services later subject to performance conditions and the individual and basic resources Companies.
Individual performance multiplier based on bonus outcomes for the Maximum award of 200% of salary 250% in exceptional performance period also applies circumstances.
which can reduce vesting to 0% or increase vesting to 200%.
Typical awards to executive directors of 100% of base salary with the opportunity to earn double that for sustained exceptional individual performance.
Pensions To enable Positioned to ensure broad competitiveness with market n a attraction and practice.
retention of the best talent.
Executive director pension arrangements are by way of a defined contribution arrangement or through a cash alternative of a similar value.
above factors as well as market survey data from Towers Watson On-target and maximum performance The chart below shows the approximate mix between fixed and and the salary increases being awarded throughout the group.
variable pay for executive directors based on the achievement On a review of the economic and market considerations in the UK of on-target and maximum performance.
The companys as well as pay across the group, the committee has agreed that pay policy is that a significant proportion of total remuneration awards will not be made in 2012 for Alan Brown, the chief executive should be performance related to embed alignment with wider and Andy Ransom, the executive director and that the chief shareholder objectives.
financial officer, Jeremy Townsend, will receive an award of 2%.
Similar considerations will apply when setting pay below board Base salary Annual cash incentive Pension Long-term incentive level and across the group, where levels of pay changes agreed locally will vary depending on economic and market conditions, Maximum statutory requirements and on individual business performance.
On target 0% 20%40% 60%80% 100% Annual bonus plan The committee sets the performance measures and targets for the bonus scheme annually to ensure they continue to support This illustrates the current remuneration and incentive policy the businesss short-term and long-term goals.
and therefore it does not take into account the one-off awards which were made in 2008 under the 2008 Share Incentive Plan For the 2011 annual bonus the following performance measures to facilitate the appointment of Alan Brown and Andy Ransom were applied: for the chief executive, Alan Brown, 25% of the further details relating to these awards are provided on page 48. bonus opportunity related to revenue growth, a further 15% related to cash conversion, 10% related to the key performance Base salaries indicator of customer care and 50% related to the achievement Executive directors and senior management salaries are reviewed of profit performance for the group.
For the executive director, with effect from 1 January each year.
Base salaries reflect the Andy Ransom, who runs the Pest Control and Ambius businesses, role, individual experience, skills and contribution to overall the performance measures for his bonus opportunity were split business performance as well as external market conditions.
When between his group and his divisional commitments.
30% of his determining base salary increases the committee considers the bonus opportunity related to revenue growth 10% group: 20% division : 20% related to cash conversion 5% group: 15% division 45 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011 Governance and 50% related to achievement of profit 10% group: 40% performance as well as customer care and non-financial personal division.
For the chief financial officer, Jeremy Townsend, 25% of objectives where appropriate.
the bonus opportunity related to revenue growth, 25% related to cash conversion and 50% related to the achievement of profit Long-term share incentive plans performance for the group.
The committee believes that these There are two plans covering the executive and senior management measures support the delivery of long-term, sustained business team, the Performance Share Plan PSP and the 2008 Share growth and financial performance.
In 2011 approximately 270 senior managers across the group received awards under the PSP Plan.
In The cash bonus opportunity for the chief executive and other 2008 one-off share awards were made to the new senior leadership executive directors continues to be 100% of base salary before team under the 2008 Plan.
Details of both plans are set out below.
the application of the modifier, subject to meeting the stretching performance targets described below.
This can be increased or In the event of a change of control, outstanding awards may vest decreased by a personal performance modifier 85% to 120%, taking into account the time elapsed and performance to the date based on the outcome of the companys performance of the change of control.
The maximum payment is 120% for the executive directors.
The Performance Share Plan the PSP The PSP, approved by shareholders in 2006, enables participants, 2011 Bonus payouts selected on a discretionary basis, to earn shares in the company based on achieving stretching performance targets.
The committee reviewed the 2011 bonus plan outcome for the groups senior management population based on the targets set Award values at the start of the financial year.
Despite stronger than expected awards are made over shares with a face value set by performance in some business units and good progress in terms of reference to a multiple of base salary, which vest subject to strengthening the business foundations for future growth overall, the achievement of performance conditions over a three-year group level performance targets were not met and no payments were made in respect of group performance.
Mr Ransom received period a bonus in relation to the financial performance of the Pest Control under normal circumstances, awards will be granted annually and Ambius businesses for which he is responsible which is shown with a maximum face value of awards ranging between 25% in the total pay and benefits table on page 49. and 200% of base salary depending on seniority.
In exceptional circumstances, a grant of up to 250% of base salary may be 2012 Bonus targets made to a participant in any year For 2012, the committee has approved a bonus plan for executive typical annual award to executive directors is 100% of base directors and the groups senior management, which is broadly salary similar in structure to the 2011 bonus plan.
In respect of the chief executive, Alan Brown, the proportions were agreed as profit details of awards made to executive directors during the year 40%, cash 20% revenue 20% and key performance indicators are set out later in this report, along with their other interests 20%.
For the executive director, Andy Ransom, who runs the Pest in shares Control and Ambius businesses, the proportions agreed were as profit group: 10%: division: 40%, cash group: 5%: division 10% Performance conditions and revenue group: 5%: division 30%.
In respect of the chief For 2008 only, the committee considered that it was appropriate to financial officer, Jeremy Townsend, the proportions were agreed use a share price target performance condition which mirrored the as revenue 20%, profit 40%, cash 20% and key performance share price targets contained within the 2008 Plan for the senior indicators 20%.
The committee believes that these metrics leadership team appointed in 2008.
These targets were based on provide the right combination of incentivising executives to focus the highest average share price achieved over any 60 consecutive on top and bottom line financial performance while strengthening dealing days during the period from 1 April 2008 to 61 dealing our cash position.
days following the announcement of the companys results for the For senior management below board level, for 2012, an additional financial year ended 31 December 2010.
The table below shows the customer care performance measure has been introduced to percentage of an award that could be released based on different reward relative improvements in customer care where applicable.
levels of absolute share price performance: Any one of the four performance measures other than profit can be Highest average market value Maximum substituted with non-financial performance measures in individual percentage cases.
Payout for the achievement of revenue and customer care Less than 1.20 0% targets may only be made if profit thresholds are achieved.
1.20 20% 1.80 100% In addition to executive directors, over 500 senior executives also participate in the annual bonus plan.
The performance measures Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between each point above relate to group, divisional and business revenue, profit and cash 46 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011 Governance Governance Awards made in 2008 under the PSP partially met share price Accordingly, there is the possibility that awards could vest at performance targets and 34.43% vested on 25 June 2011 details of two times the target number of shares, if the business achieves which were reported in the 2010 annual report and are included in upper quartile TSR performance over the performance period and the table on page 50. financial performance that lead to maximum bonus outcomes in each of the three consecutive financial years for the relevant In summary, during the first half of 2010 the companys share business unit.
price achieved a 60 day highest average price of 130.82p and therefore under the terms of the PSP 34.43% of the award vested The committee considered this to be an appropriately ambitious provided that each individual achieved on target annual bonus goal that would not be easily achieved.
The performance modifier performance in 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Awards were scaled challenges the executive group, and all participants in the PSP, to according to each participants individual performance multiplier, deliver strong and consistent financial performance in each year which was based on their average annual bonus outcome in respect of the performance period.
of financial performance conditions over the 20082010 period.
The rationale for including the Individual Performance Modifier None of the current executive directors received an award under is to provide a financial performance criteria based on the the PSP in 2008. achievement of budget related financial performance conditions.
Outstanding awards are subject to two performance measures The committee considers this to be helpful in aligning the plan described below.
Executive directors have participated in the PSP with the shareholders overall objectives of maximising long-term from 2009. value creation.
Relative TSR: Outstanding awards are subjected to relative TSR In 2011 the committee reviewed the application of the performance performance: this reflects market practice and shareholder modifier introduced in 2008 on the first vesting and concluded preferences.
A relative TSR measure is used to ensure management that its application had tended to reduce the vested award to an are incentivised to outperform key peers and to ensure that the extent that it might prejudice the incentive value in the scheme.
interests of management are aligned with shareholders.
TSR It was therefore agreed that for all those, other than for executive performance will be measured relative to the constituents of directors, for 2011 the performance modifier would operate the FTSE 350 index, excluding financial services and primary to reduce the award as calculated on TSR performance to a resources sectors.
The FTSE 350 is recognised as a broad index maximum of 50% of the vested amount previously 0% and and is considered to be an appropriate benchmark for measuring to reduce the maximum uplift to 150% previously 200%.
The performance given the companys membership of the FTSE 250, the performance conditions related to the 2009 and 2010 awards scope and scale of the companys international operations, and the would remain unaffected.
diverse nature of companies in the business services sector.
25% The performance modifier for awards to executive directors in 2011 of the initial award will vest if Rentokils performance is positioned and beyond will continue to be based on the original performance at median against this group with the full initial award vesting for modifier i. e. a range of application from 0% to 200%.
Individual performance modifier: Achievement under the relative Vesting of the PSP awards TSR performance measure is modified based on individual The outcome of the performance condition relating to awards achievement of annual bonus targets, to further align plan made in 2009 will not be tested until April 2012. participants with the need to deliver consistent, strong financial and operational performance on a year-by-year basis.
This modifier Award values and performance measures 2012 awards also ensures that exceptional individual performance is rewarded, The committee considers that the level of awards and nature of whilst those individuals whose contribution has not been as strong the performance conditions for the 2011 awards continues to be an do not benefit disproportionately.
effective basis for incentivising the senior management population and for supporting the delivery of the overall objective of creating For executive directors, the effect of the individual performance long-term value for shareholders.
As such, the committee currently modifier in 2009 and 2010, as set out in the table below, is intends to maintain this approach for awards made in 2012. to reduce the level of award that would otherwise vest if an individual fails to reach threshold performance under the annual Clawback bonus in each of the three years of the performance period to For 2012 PSP awards a clawback provision will be introduced to zero, and increase vesting by a maximum of 200% if above target allow the committee to scale back awards in the event of a material performance is achieved.
misstatement of performance or in other circumstances where the committee considers that this treatment is appropriate.
Achievement against annual bonus targets in respect of Below each financial year average over performance period threshold Threshold Target Maximum Individual Performance Modifier 0% 20% 100% 200% Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between each point above 47 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
