Accounting policies the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and Cash and cash equivalents it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call foreseeable future.
with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it maturities of three months or less and subject to insignificant changes relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is in value.
In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are recognised in equity.
shown net of bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Employee benefits a Defined benefit pension plans Share capital The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
The principal scheme is the UK scheme, which has a number of attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity defined benefit sections, which are now closed to new entrants other as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
than the Initial No 2 section, accounting for 0.5% of the total schemes Where any group company purchases the companys equity share liabilities, which remains open and a defined contribution section.
capital Treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly The defined benefit scheme is funded through payments to a trusteeattributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from administered fund, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
equity attributable to the companys equity holders until the shares are A number of much smaller defined benefit and defined contribution cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently schemes operate elsewhere which are also funded through payments to sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly trustee-administered funds or insurance companies.
A defined benefit attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more equity holders.
factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Borrowings The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
difference between the fair value net of transaction costs and the The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the Where fair value hedge accounting is applied, the carrying value is estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality adjusted for any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the that are attributable to the hedged risk.
benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has a the terms of the related pension liability.
The group will recognise a continuing right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months pension surplus as an asset where there is an unconditional right to after the balance sheet date.
a refund or where the group has a right to reduce future pension contributions.
Current and past service costs, to the extent they have vested, and Deferred income tax curtailments are recognised as charges or credits against operating Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on profit in the income statement.
Interest costs on plan liabilities and the temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and expected return on plan assets are recognised in finance costs.
Actuarial liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the consolidated recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business statement of comprehensive income.
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor the taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
b Defined contribution pension plans Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have The group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is The group has no further payment obligations once the contributions realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of 66 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
