Governance Corporate responsibility Partnerships with customers Performance Indicators 2008 2009 2010 2011 Initial Facilities commitment with London Underground to Colleague engagement n a 70% 70% 72%s service modernisation and lean processes delivered cleanliness improvements and depot graffiti reductions.
Colleague enablement n a 68% 68% 69%s Sales colleague retention 54.6% 63.5% 63.8% 65.0%s Initial Facilities assisted Xerox UK to exceed emissions targets through structured research and development.
Service colleague retention 74.2% 74.4% 75.9% 72%t Colleague engagement and colleague enablement scores are based upon Lancaster Cleanings food waste management project for all colleagues surveyed across the company.
Scores are calculated by Hay Londons Devonshire Square restaurants included educational Group based upon answers to questions within the annual Your Voice Counts survey.
programmes food waste re-cycling increased by 25%.
Sales colleague and service colleague retention is the reciprocal of total sales and service colleagues leaving in the year as a percentage of the sales Product stewardship and innovation and service head count at the beginning of the year.
Product stewardship considers environmental and health and safety impacts during product life cycles.
This includes Skills development specifiers educational programmes, such as Ambiuss The company delivered over 9,000 days training in 2011.
Continuing Professional Development programme with RIBA for Architects and Interior Designers.
The company also A global leadership programme, Living Leadership, has now anticipates forthcoming legislation, helping customers been attended by more than 300 people from across the safeguard liabilities and reputation.
Examples include company including Asia, Europe and South Africa and has Rentokils work on the EUs Biocidal Products Directive, received outstanding feedback.
Living Leadership won resulting in two first in field product registrations.
the 2011 Personnel Today Excellence in Training and Development award.
Rentokils Authorised Product List APL ensures fit for purpose and efficacious products.
Preliminary APL work in The companys first formal graduate recruitment programme the USA enabled a reduction from 2,286 SKUs stock-keeping commenced in 2011. units in 2007 to 338.
The North American experience has Several pilot vocational training programmes are underway been applied across all of the divisions worldwide operations, throughout the company.
Several divisions are in the process of with the total number of rodenticide and insecticides used designing, developing and aligning embedded apprenticeship down from 845 in 2010 to 397 by year end from 507 to 228 learning frameworks to ensure maximum impact and benefits in Europe.
Initial Textiles & Hygiene has also reduced its at colleague level.
Approximately 250 apprenticeships are hygiene SKUs from 2,300 to below its target of 1,000. currently underway, with an additional 1,600 colleagues undertaking formal stand-alone vocational programmes Developing capability focusing in raising the standards of customer service and care.
In 2011, the company continued to build capability in its people and Values training programmes are being undertaken in the UK systems and processes.
In 2011 a single governance structure for all learning and Colleague engagement and enablement development activity was developed with a steering group and The annual Your Voice Counts YVC survey compares Rentokil L&D Council representatives from all divisions established.
Initial results to Hay Groups Global General Industry norms.
People services It is carried out annually and is confidential.
In 2011, 40,236 Our aim for People Services in Rentokil Initial is to create colleagues took part 2010: 33,364. country-based teams of experts responsible for providing Overall results showed that out of the 35 questions, 30 showed consistent, compliant and quality HR transactional services an improved score with no questions declining.
Areas of largest the colleague essentials through HR Shared Service HRSS improvement included recognition and respect, training and centres, using consistent fit for purpose systems and processes.
This will deliver a single point of contact for accessible, easy to Colleague engagement improved by 2 points to 72% 3 points use, responsive People Services.
above the Global General Industry Norm.
The three core tools within People Services Workday HRIS, Colleague enablement improved by 1 point to 69% 3 points JobTrain Applicant Tracking and Cornerstone Learning above the Global General Industry Norm.
Management System were identified, trialed and developed in 2011 for roll out to launch in 2012.
The perceptions of colleagues through the YVC survey in 2011 of training, managing performance, job clarity and opportunity to feedback views place Rentokil Initial amongst the worlds High Performing organisations in these areas.
53 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
