Accounting policies b Valuation of acquired intangible assets Standards, amendments and interpretations Acquisitions may result in customer relationships, brands, patents and to published standards that are not yet reacquired franchise rights being recognised.
These are valued using the excess earnings and relief from royalty methods.
In applying these effective methodologies certain key judgements and estimates are required to The following new standards and amendments to standards as adopted be made in respect of future cash flows.
by the European Union at 31 December 2011 are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011 and did not have a c Provision for impairment of trade receivables significant impact on the group.
Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of management may be impaired.
Within each of the businesses, IAS 24 Related party disclosures revised 2009 assessment is made locally of the recoverability of accounts receivable Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the creditworthiness of the customer.
Determining the Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements recoverability of an account involves estimation as to the likely financial condition of the customer and their ability to subsequently Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding make payment.
Requirement There are no new standards or amendments to standards which are d Income taxes applicable to the group for the financial year beginning 1 January 2012.
The group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
e Provision for vacant property and environmental restoration Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for vacant property and environmental restoration.
Vacant property and environmental restoration tend to be long-term in nature and the required use of an appropriate market discount rate and forecast future utilisation based upon managements best estimate determines the level of provision required at the balance sheet date.
The phasing and actual cash spend may be different from the original forecast utilisation spend.
f Retirement benefits Defined benefit schemes are reappraised annually by independent actuaries based upon actuarial assumptions.
Significant judgement is required in determining these actuarial assumptions.
Refer to note 23 for the principal assumptions used for the Rentokil Initial Pension Scheme in the UK.
70 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
