Financial statements Accounting policies The groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is Basis of preparation recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs comprehensive income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union as at Gains and losses on transactions between the group and its associates 31 December 2011. are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the associates.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of availableSegment reporting for-sale investments and certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments.
Reporting segments reflect the internal management organisation and reporting structures.
Each segment is headed by a divisional managing After reviewing group and company cash balances, borrowing facilities director who reports directly to the chief executive and is a member and projected cash flows, the directors believe that the group and of the company executive board responsible for the review of group company have adequate resources to continue operations for the performance.
Operating businesses within each segment report to foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going segment divisional managing directors.
concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements see the Directors report on page 40.
Segmental revenue represents the total revenue of each individual business unit within a reporting segment and includes inter segment revenues.
Segmental profit is the profit measure used to measure Consolidation performance internally and is calculated as profit before tax, interest, a Subsidiaries amortisation and impairment of intangibles excluding computer Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over software and items of a one-off nature adjusted operating profit.
which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating Segmental revenues and profits are shown at constant exchange rates policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half consistent with our internal reporting and review process.
Other of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights segmental information is stated at actual exchange rates.
Constant that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when exchange rate refers to the translation of two different periods using assessing whether the group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are the same exchange rate for a particular currency the prior years fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the average rate of exchange.
Both the current and prior years currencies group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
are translated at the prior years rate of exchange $:1.5486, The group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the :1.1659.
This gives a clearer indication of the actual performance of acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the the business when measured against the previous year by separately fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities identifying the impact of foreign exchange by providing information incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets on both an actual and constant exchange rate basis.
When using actual acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business exchange rates, currencies are translated using the rate of exchange combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition for that year.
date, irrespective of the extent of any non controlling interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the groups share Reorganisation costs and one-off items of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of Reorganisation costs and one-off items have been separately identified the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the as they are not considered to be business as usual expenses and have income statement.
a varying impact on different businesses and reporting periods.
These are separately identified and presented to give a clearer understanding Inter-company transactions, balances and gains and losses on of the performance of the business.
It also shows the information in the transactions between group companies are eliminated.
same way as it is presented and reviewed by management.
Any change in the parents controlling interest in a subsidiary that does Reorganisation costs relate directly to the groups major reorganisation not result in a loss of control in buying or selling shares to the non programme and consists mainly of redundancy costs, consultancy and controlling interest is treated as a transaction with equity shareholders plant and office closure costs net of the profit on sale of certain and is shown as a movement in the consolidated statement of changes properties.
One-off items in the current year include acquisition costs, in equity.
negative goodwill credited to the income statement and the release of prior year provisions.
b Associates Associates are all entities over which the group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
63 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
