Financial statements Notes to the accounts The groups Medium Term Notes may be recalled by its investors in the event of a change of control of the group and within 120 days if: a the groups debt is down-graded below investment grade or the rating is withdrawn: and b the rating agency confirms in writing, either publicly or in writing to the issuer or the Trustee that the rating action occurred either wholly or in part due to the change of control.
The groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Capital consists of ordinary shares, retained earnings and non-controlling interests of the group.
Management monitor the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
There were no changes in the groups approach to capital management during the year.
Liquidity risk The group is committed to ensuring it has sufficient liquidity to meet its payables as they fall due.
To achieve this it aims to maintain significant committed headroom.
At 31 December 2011 the group had available headroom under its new smaller facility of 180 million 2010: 390 million.
Market risk The group is exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
The groups objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates and the exposure of certain net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
To achieve this, management actively monitors these exposures and the group enters into currency and interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the volatility relating to these.
i Foreign exchange rate risk The group is exposed to the following foreign exchange risks: pre-transaction risk, transaction risk, translation risk and economic risk.
The groups policy response is as follows: Pre-transaction risk The majority of sales and purchases are local, limiting pre-transaction risk.
The policy is therefore to accept and monitor the risk.
Transaction risk The majority of sales and purchases are local, limiting transaction risk.
Where significant acquisitions or disposals not internally funded are to be undertaken, the transaction may be hedged to give certainty of pricing.
Translation risk The group is exposed to translation risk as a result of its worldwide operations.
The group aims to hold debt in currencies broadly matching its forecast cash flows, meaning that currency interest costs reduce the net profit retranslation exposure.
This reduces the volatility of earnings affecting the groups interest cover covenant.
Foreign currency debt is designated for hedge accounting as a hedge of its currency net assets, so reducing its net currency assets.
Retranslation gains and losses are recognised in reserves, rather than in the income statement.
Economic risk Economic risk is a core risk to the business, which the business therefore accepts and monitors.
2011 saw considerable volatility in financial markets due to ongoing concerns regarding unsustainable Sovereign debt levels within certain Eurozone countries.
The potential impact on the group is two-fold: i Worsening GDP and trading conditions within the Eurozone, which the group consider as part of its ongoing operating plans: and ii Funding the break-up of the Eurozone would likely result in individual countries reverting to their pre-Euro currencies.
Approximately half of the groups net debt is denominated in Euro which would need to be re-denominated.
Management monitor this risk but at present have no information to suggest that European governments do not remain committed to the Euro.
The group calculates the impact on the income statement and equity of a 10% shift in foreign exchange rates.
The groups principal foreign currency exposure is to Euro, and a 10% shift in GBP EUR would result in a 11.2 million 2010: 8.7 million increase decrease in operating profit, offset by a 1.9 million 2010: 1.9 million decrease increase in interest payable.
Equity reserves would decrease increase by 7.4 million 2010: 5.9 million.
ii Interest rate risk The group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on borrowings and cash balances held at variable rates, resulting in variable interest cash flows.
Fixed rate instruments provide certain interest cash flows but change in market value as market expectations of interest rates change.
The group seeks to manage interest rate risk to ensure reasonable certainty of its interest cash flows whilst allowing an element of risk exposure consistent with the variability of the groups cash flows.
The group is required to fix or cap a minimum of 50% of the groups estimated future interest rate exposures excluding pensions for a minimum of 12 months forward.
At the end of December 2011 approximately 91% of the groups debt was at a fixed rate of interest.
The impact on profit and loss of a 1% shift would be a maximum increase decrease of 0.2 million 2010: 0.6 million.
91 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
