Strategy and performance Statement by the chairman and the chief executive Growth pilots 2.
C ustomer care immediate, Programme Olympic is a programme of process-led change for our effective, surprising business support activities.
The objective of the programme is to The groups focus on customer service has been extended to dramatically improve customer service and financial performance.
Our aim is to be pro-active in contacting, listening There are seven growth initiatives within the programme which to and responding to all our customers in City Link also our have been piloted during 2011 in the UK.
The impact of the customers customers, not just the very large.
initiatives has contributed to organic growth in the UK Pest Control business of 8.3% in H2 2011.
In City Link a Customer Care Director was appointed to lead this programme which became operational in November.
The Acquisitions business has made significant progress in both quality and speed Pest Control continues to expand its geographic footprint of response to customer and consignee enquiries, though there by acquisition.
In February 2011 the business acquired the pest remains much to do.
The analytic data systematically collected by business of Santia Group.
In July 2011 the group entered the the new technology will lead over time to a step change in service Turkish pest control market through the acquisition of and care.
In May the My City Link initiative was launched affording commercial pest business National Britannia Turkey NB Turkey.
most customers real-time and detailed access on their parcel The business operates nationally with branches in Turkeys seven delivery.
This service offers a competitive advantage over other largest cities.
In the same month we acquired Sydney-based pest market participants and has met with great success.
control company Ant-Eater, which will provide further density to our Sydney operations.
The company also established a first- 3.
Growth consistent and profitable time presence in Mexico through the acquisition of Tetengo The group aims to deliver consistent and profitable organic growth in September.
Tetengo is headquartered in Monterrey and through excellent customer retention, greatly improved marketing, operates from a network of 15 branches across the country.
sales and innovation capability, and through acquisition.
Excluding Textiles & Hygiene in 2011 the division acquired a business City Link and Libya where we had to cease our activities due to in France which designs, develops and sources workwear civil war group organic growth was 0.9%, driven by Asia Pacific garments.
up 3.7%, Pest Control excluding Libya up 1.7%, and Textiles & Initial Facilities in May 2011 Initial Facilities acquired the 25% Hygiene up 1.4%.
minority shareholding of Initial Catering Ltd from Rezayat Despite challenges in many of our markets, retention remained Group High Seas Investments Bermuda Ltd. More recently, stable during the year at 83.9%.
in November, we announced the acquisition of building services Good progress has been made in shaping the foundations and business, MSS Facilities Management, from Managed Support frameworks on which we will build our future growth agenda.
The business, which has 200 employees, operates The global sales agenda has focused on key elements of sales from two principal trading sites in Manchester and London force capabilities, including training and development modules, and provides excellent synergies with Initial Facilities existing operating frameworks and system tools.
In addition work is mechanical and electrical engineering building services business.
underway to introduce improved recruitment criteria.
Additional The acquisitions of Knightsbridge Guarding acquired June 2010 supply chain and innovation capability has been brought into the and the Services Division of Santia Group acquired February 2011 textiles and hygiene categories to ensure that segmented offers have been integrated successfully into the division and both are are supported by modernised product ranges.
Ambius In September Ambius acquired Netherlands-based business Westplant, which specialises in the rental of interior and exterior plants, fresh flower delivery and Christmas displays.
The acquisition cements Ambius market position in the Netherlands.
03 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
