Financial statements Accounting policies Financial liabilities Discontinued operations All financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that has either interest rate method except for derivatives, which are classified as held been disposed of, or that is classified as held for sale, which represents a for trading except where they qualify for hedge accounting and are separate major line of business or geographical area of operations and is held at fair value.
part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, vacant property provisions, deferred consideration and borrowings.
Fair value estimation Accounting for derivative financial The fair value of any financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted instruments and hedging activities market price used for financial assets held by the group is the current Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair the current ask price.
value at the balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial group designates certain derivatives as either 1 hedges of the fair value instruments.
The fair value of interest rate and currency swaps is of recognised assets or liabilities, 2 hedges of net investments in calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
foreign operations or 3 cash flow hedges.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined The group documents at the inception of the transaction the using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various determined by using valuation techniques.
The group uses a variety of hedge transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, both at methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives existing at each balance sheet date.
that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade changes in fair values of hedged items.
receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is a Fair value hedge estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify current market interest rate that is available to the group for similar as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together financial instruments.
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Critical accounting estimates and b Net investment hedge assumptions Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the c Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the below.
Sensitivities to the estimates and assumptions are provided, income statement.
where relevant, in the relevant notes to the accounts.
d Cash flow hedge a Estimated impairment of goodwill The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the The group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
Any ineffective in accordance with the accounting policy stated earlier under intangible portion is recognised in the income statement.
The gains or losses that assets goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions consistent consolidated income statement.
with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that have been formally approved by management.
69 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
