Governance Corporate responsibility Textiles & Hygiene.
For example, Initial Textiles & Hygienes Material usage Services are delivered across Europe by in excess of 2,000 Many services reuse or repair resources, e. g. floor mats and vehicles.
The interval of visits to customers and product varies, plastic reusable bait inserts.
Divisions, such as Rentokil, have creating a very complex planning situation.
In the past, the reduced the number of Stock Keeping Units which reduces planning of service routes was done by each branch itself.
The waste and achieves higher stock utilisation.
introduction of route planning and route sequencing technology Continued recycling improvement.
For example, within the pilot vehicle fleet led to savings of up to 8% on the Dudley Industries, a manufacturer of equipment for the miles travelled and enhanced management information.
washrooms servicing operations, improved its kgs of waste As a result of the successful trials, route optimisation generated turnover to 13.40 2010: 16.75. programmes are now being implemented across all our route End of life resource disposal methods have differing cost based businesses and are expected to deliver a significant levels.
Ambius recycles containers, following research on both reduction in distance travelled.
Medical Services exports amalgam from dentists for re-cycling nearly 10 tonnes were Cost efficiency and maximum cash exported from the UK in 2011.
Corporate Responsibility impacts cost efficiency through Improved efficiency in European laundries sustainable use of resources and utilising colleagues capabilities.
Steam-free laundries have been introduced in Sweden, This arises mainly in divisions, although group-level interventions Netherlands and Germany, reducing energy consumption.
Projects to the value of 760,000 have been implemented Group-wide resource efficiency in French laundry operations, reducing energy and Improving environmental cost efficiency arises through water consumption.
improving energy usage and materials utilisation.
In the UK, major machinery manufacturers have been involved in developing more energy-efficient machinery and working Energy usage practices, focusing on the reduction of particle emissions, Focus has been on more effective property and vehicle as well as improved energy and water consumption.
Property energy usage represents an increasingly smaller Utilising colleagues capabilities percentage of total energy costs 26% in 2011 due to The Success is no Accident system continues to improve integrating office locations and IT innovations such as global accident reporting, reduce accident rates, and ensure efficient data centres.
rehabilitation referrals, reducing days lost and boosting colleague morale.
Textiles processing plants in mainland Europe have shown year on year improved efficiency for five years kWh energy per kg Since 2007 Rentokil Initials ability to accelerate colleagues of laundry processed 2007: 1.94: 2011: 1.68. assessment and treatment through its rehabilitation scheme has saved colleagues and the business over 30 years of time Actions taken to improve vehicle utilisation include: waiting for treatment or in rehabilitation after accidents Focus on whole life costing: or injury.
Improved route optimisation: Initial Facilities focus on numeracy and literacy training Improved driving styles through Drive Smart.
recognises some cleaning operatives may need these basic skills improved.
Addressing this ensures a better understanding of cleaning and health and safety procedures.
Performance area 2008 2009 2010 2011 Improvement s Deteriorationt Property energy consumption 246.8 224.9 195.7 173.4 10.4%s Vehicle energy consumption 30.4 26.0 24.0 25.2 5.0%t Property energy consumption thousand kWh per m turnover.
Vehicle energy consumption thousand litres per m turnover.
Reduction in vehicle energy efficiency in 2011 is due in part to the switch by City Link from sub-contracted vehicles and drivers to in-house owned vehicles and employed drivers.
55 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
