Governance Going concern Policy in relation to payment of suppliers The directors, having made enquiries consider that the company Rentokil Initial has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for in various countries.
These are either negotiated along with other the foreseeable future and therefore consider it appropriate contract terms or conform to standard terms applied either by to maintain the going concern basis in preparing the financial the relevant group company or by the supplier.
It is the companys statements.
policy to pay suppliers in accordance with either negotiated or standard terms, provided that the relevant invoice is properly The group signed a new five year revolving credit facility RCF in presented in a timely manner and is not the subject of dispute.
December 2011 and has no bond maturities in the 12 months from The company is a signatory to the UK Prompt Payment Code.
At 31 December 2011 and 1 March 2012, headroom At 31 December 2011 the trade creditors of the group represented on the RCF, the groups principal source of day-to-day liquidity, 57 days of annual purchases and the UK businesses trade creditors was 180 million.
represented 49 days of purchases: UK trade debtors represented The groups practice is to forecast a year-end position three years 31 days of turnover.
During the year the parent company did not forward and to prepare a monthly budget in advance of each have any trade creditors.
The expected full-year outcome in terms of profit and cash every month and current and prospective performance is Post balance sheet events reviewed formally with each of the groups divisions monthly and forecasts are updated accordingly.
Please refer to note 34 to the accounts on page 101.
The groups RCF contains two financial covenants requiring EBITDA to be no less than 4x interest payable on the basis of Related party transactions the definitions and subject to the adjustments set out in the Other than in respect of arrangements relating to the employment bank facility documentation and net debt to be no more than 3x of directors, details of which are provided in the remuneration EBITDA.
The covenant is tested on 30 June and 31 December.
At report or as set out in note 33 on page 101, there is no material 31 December the group had good headroom on both measures, indebtedness owed to or by the company to any employee or any with an interest cover ratio of 9.3x and a net debt ratio of 2.1x other person considered to be a related party.
representing EBITDA headroom of 168 million or debt headroom of 584 million.
Research and development The directors considered a base case using the above forecasts and The company invests in an active programme of research and sensitivity analysis including a downside scenario to ensure that development in support of its major international business headroom and covenants would not be breached.
This programme includes the conception, design, It was considered that in the event that cash flows from trading, testing and manufacture of new products to enhance the quality, acquisitions or disposals were significantly below expectations, effectiveness and safety of the companys services and minimise operating capital expenditure, or bolt-on acquisitions could be their environmental impact.
Where appropriate, work may be reduced to protect headroom on the RCF.
sponsored at universities with expertise in relevant areas.
The On the basis of the available headroom provided by the RCF, companys total research and development expenditure in 2011 projected cash flows and the levels of discretion available to was 2.0 million 2010: 1.9 million.
management to manage cash flow, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Key contracts Full details of the groups net debt and borrowing facilities are The group does not have any dominant customer or supplier set out in notes 20, 21 and 27 to the financial statement.
Key performance indicators As a means of helping shareholders assess the success and impacts of our strategies, the company uses non-financial performance indicators, which are shown in the table on page 5.
40 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
