Financial statements Accounting policies c Other post-employment obligations Provisions Some group companies provide post-employment healthcare benefits Vacant property, environmental, self-insurance and other provisions to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow of completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these resources will be required to settle the obligation: and if this amount is benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an capable of being reliably estimated.
If such an obligation is not capable accounting methodology similar to that used for defined benefit of being reliably estimated it is classified as a contingent liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are charged or Vacant property provision is made in respect of vacant and partly credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
sub-let leasehold properties to the extent that future rental payments are expected to exceed future rental income.
Environmental provision is d Share-based compensation made for all known liabilities to remediate contaminated land on the The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based basis of managements best estimate of the costs of these liabilities.
The economic cost of awarding shares and share Self-insurance provision is made for all claims incurred as at the balance options to employees is recognised as an expense in the income sheet date whether notified or not based on actuarial assessments of statement equivalent to the fair value of the benefit awarded.
The fair the likely amounts of these liabilities.
Other provisions are made for all value is determined by reference to option pricing models, principally other known liabilities that exist at the year end based on Monte Carlo and adjusted Black-Scholes models.
The charge is managements best estimate as to the cost of settling these liabilities.
recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
At each balance sheet date, the group revises its estimate of Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
Any outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the revision to the original estimates is reflected in the income statement class of obligations as a whole.
with a corresponding adjustment to equity immediately to the extent When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision it relates to past service and the remainder over the rest of the amounts are calculated on the present value of the expenditures vesting period.
expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value is The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs calculated using forward market interest rates, as measured at the are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks already the options are exercised.
reflected in future cash flow estimates.
e Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when an employment is terminated Revenue recognition before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received from the voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The group customer for the rendering of services, net of value-added tax and other recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to similar sales-based taxes, rebates and discounts and after eliminating either: terminating the employment of current employees according to sales within the group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary a Service revenue redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance Revenue excludes VAT and other similar sales-based taxes, rebates and sheet date are discounted to present value.
discounts and represents the fair value of consideration receivable from the customer for services rendered outside the group.
f Profit-sharing and bonus plans For non-contract-based business, revenue represents the value of The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and goods delivered or services performed.
For contract-based business, profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the revenue represents the sales value of work carried out for customers probability of certain performance criteria being achieved.
Contract income is recognised in accounting periods is recognised where a contractual obligation exists or where past on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract.
For long-term practice indicates that there is a constructive obligation to make such contracts involving the installation of equipment, revenue is recognised payments in the future.
using the percentage completion method and represents the sales value of work executed during the period.
g Holiday pay Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and as such are b Rental income charged to the income statement as the benefits are earned.
An accrual Rental assets such as tropical plants, washroom equipment, garments, is made at the balance sheet date to reflect the fair value of holidays linen, security equipment, etc which are owned by group entities or earned but not yet taken.
where at least substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of such equipment are retained by group entities are capitalised as fixed assets and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
67 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
