Corporate responsibility Responsible business practices also extend to terminations, such Profitable growth as with the Libyan pest control operation, suspended because of Profitable growth opportunities arise from innovation, acquisitions, the Libyan Revolution.
Special attention was given to the needs and social and community leadership all of which require of Libyan and British colleagues during the civil unrest.
Social and community leadership is in three forms charitable cash donations, colleague support, Social and community leadership and investment.
This helps to secure key stakeholders trust and goodwill, especially where businesses utilise skills and resources to Customer focused innovation benefit local communities.
Rentokil has rolled out Entotherm, upgraded its Luminos Initial Facilities works in London with employment charity flykiller range, and introduced Entosite using natural Tomorrows People to help vulnerable young people get back predators to remove pests.
It trained over 400 long-term unemployed people Knightsbridge Guarding has introduced its web-based Security 154 have gained permanent employment.
This programme through E Partnership, to enable operational information won an award at the 2011 Business Charity Awards for best sharing with customers.
Sanitact Green is an environmental treatment for feminine Initial Transport Services, which has recruited 377 unemployed hygiene bins, designed to reduce unpleasant odours in people and enrolled 45 people on to apprenticeships through hot climates.
Transport for Londons Total Purchased Services contract.
In South Africa, activities include supporting Embo Self-Help Innovative business approaches Project, including developing plant nursery skills.
Service delivery innovation can meet social needs as with Initial Facilities contract at Cheltenham General Hospital.
During 2011 a number of natural disasters Australia flooding, This included a new on-site Training Academy and funding New Zealand earthquake, Japan tsunami, Thailand flooding a part-time Infection Control Nurse.
The company played a full role in supporting colleagues who made incredible efforts Ambiuss award-winning Living Walls assists customers in to service customers.
In Thailand, over 50 colleagues lost their reducing noise levels and improves energy efficiency.
The possessions and were housed within the Bangkok branch.
company won 11 awards at the USA Plantscape Industry Alliance awards, while its Living Green Wall at Longwood Gardens was Individual businesses use cause-related marketing to achieve awarded Most Outstanding Overall Project Award.
business objectives, including Rentokils UKWaspWatch, supporting The Anaphylaxis Campaign.
Colleagues also Product development partnerships require partners with benefit in charitable fund raising from matched giving via responsible standards.
Textiles & Hygienes new anti-microbial Helping Hands.
hygiene technology partnership with Byotrol addresses the needs of customers where alcohol-based sanitising products are In 2011, Rentokil Initials charitable donations amounted to prohibited and provides a far more effective solution against 135,000 130,000 in 2010. germs such as MRSA.
Acquisitions and entering developing markets Due diligence is essential especially within developing countries where business practices may differ.
Acquisitions in the UK Santia, Mexico and Turkey demonstrate these differences.
For Santia, due diligence included consulting the workforce about the new owner and including them as colleagues in open communication channels.
In Turkey and Mexico, actions required integrating business processes, and ensuring company standards of governance applied, including Code of Conduct communication.
56 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
