Accounting policies 4 to 5 years Vehicles Foreign currency translation 3 to 10 years Plant, equipment including equipment for rental, a Functional and presentation currency tropical plants and their containers on rental Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities 3 to 10 years Office equipment, furniture and fittings are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the amended as necessary.
Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment companys functional and presentation currency.
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the fixed asset may not be recoverable.
b Transactions and balances An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount exceeds the higher currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the of the assets fair value less cost to sell or value-in-use.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at reporting For the purposes of assessing value-in-use, assets are grouped at the period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income cash-generating units and cash flow forecasts are made using statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying net investment assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans hedges.
Other foreign exchange differences are taken to the income that have been formally approved by management.
These cash flows are statement.
discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted average cost of capital for the group, adjusted for the particular risks of the c Group companies cash-generating unit being reviewed for impairment.
The results and financial position of all the group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are Business combinations translated into the presentation currency as follows: Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated accounted for using the purchase method acquisition accounting.
at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: The cost of a business combination is the aggregate of the fair values, ii i ncome and expenses for each income statement are translated at at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed average exchange rates: and and equity instruments issued by the acquirer.
The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that component of equity.
satisfy the recognition criteria, at their fair values at that date.
The On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other control of the acquiree.
An intangible asset, such as customer currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are relationships, brands, patents and royalties, is recognised if it meets taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such the definition of an intangible asset in IAS 38, Intangible Assets.
exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of The intangible assets identified in all acquisitions made since the gain or loss on sale.
1 January 1998 are goodwill, customer lists and relationships, reacquired Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a franchise rights and contract portfolios.
Consideration in excess of net foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity identifiable assets acquired in respect of non controlling interests in and translated at period end exchange rates.
existing subsidiary undertakings is taken directly to reserves.
Costs directly attributable to business combinations made after 1 January 2010 are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Costs directly Property, plant and equipment attributable to business combinations prior to this date were included Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and offices.
Provision for as part of the purchase price of the business combination.
Contingent depreciation of freehold buildings is made in equal annual instalments consideration is accounted for at fair value at the acquisition date of 1% to 2% of cost.
Leasehold buildings classified as finance leases are with subsequent changes to the fair value being recognised in the depreciated in equal annual instalments over the shorter of the lease consolidated income statement.
term or estimated useful life of the leased asset.
No depreciation is charged on freehold land or fixed assets under construction.
When properties are sold, the difference between sale proceeds and net book value is dealt with in the income statement.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the difference between their cost and their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: 64 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
