Statement by the chairman and the chief executive 2.
Cost savings Following the successful introduction of customer care initiatives The group achieved 44 million of cost savings in 2011 through a in City Link, the company will begin to roll out best practice combination of restructuring, procurement, service productivity initiatives across the group in 2012, including call centre technology and back office rationalisation.
Savings were 16 million below and organisation.
The group will also roll out proactive customer target primarily reflecting slower than expected progress on account management processes following successful trials service productivity in City Link.
Cost savings are targeted at conducted within the UK Pest and Hygiene businesses in 2011.
Further, Customer Voice Counts the groups survey of customer Textiles & Hygiene delivered 17 million savings in the year satisfaction will be bonusable across most of the organisation in through restructuring, overheads and indirect procurement.
order to drive competitive advantage.
Further opportunities exist in 2012 in direct materials procurement and service productivity.
Cost savings Cost savings are targeted at 50 million in 2012.
We aim to Pest Control achieved 10 million savings in the year through achieve this through direct materials procurement, back office service productivity and back office rationalisation.
Further rationalisation and efficiencies and service productivity, particularly opportunities exist in these areas, especially in North America.
City Link delivered 7 million of savings during the year, primarily in restructuring.
As noted above, progress has been slower than 4.
Cost savings of 20 million are targeted The group anticipates further revenue growth in 2012 through in 2012 in collections and delivery productivity, as well as hub and organic and acquisitive actions.
While progress has been made trunking, depot and warehouse costs and back office efficiencies.
in sales capability, the coming year will be another important year Savings in the rest of the group amounted to 10 million in the of implementation.
year, through a combination of restructuring, procurement and Marketing and Innovation will be a major focus for 2012 given back office rationalisation initiatives.
Further savings are planned the progress made on delivering the essentials across the group.
in 2012, particularly in Initial Facilities through the application of For Pest and Hygiene this will come under the leadership of a LEAN cost saving initiatives to improve gross margin levels.
single management team led by Xuemei Bennink-Bei, currently MD of Asia Pacific, and now appointed Group Marketing and Key objectives for 2012 Innovation Director.
The new initiative will involve a number of senior management changes: while Xuemei will continue to run Over the last four years, the group has invested in the capability Asia, Peter Slator, MD of THS, will assume additional responsibility of its people and systems.
2012 will be focused on delivering the for the Pacific region.
Italy will report to Andy Ransom, Managing benefits of this investment.
Our four key objectives for 2012 are: Director of the Pest Control division.
To turnaround the financial performance of City Link: Work is also now underway to develop the Programme Olympic 2.
To drive greater customer satisfaction and retention through growth pilot initiatives as appropriate for other group categories customer care and Customer Voice Counts CVC initiatives: i. e. Textiles and Hygiene and to deploy these initiatives in key 3.
To deliver 50 million cost savings from productivity, geographies outside the UK.
We anticipate these pilots will procurement and back office rationalisation initiatives: and underpin our plans for organic growth in the Pest Control division in 2012 and elsewhere in the business in 2013.
To achieve growth through marketing and innovation, will continue to target bolt-on acquisitions, primarily in the Pest Programme Olympic and acquisitions.
Control category, with an emphasis on North America, MENAT, Latin America and other high growth markets.
City Link The new City Link leadership team brings a great deal of successful UK Parcels industry experience to the business.
They have begun to implement a comprehensive recovery plan which we expect to show material results by Q3 2012.
The plan targets productivity savings in excess of 20 million primarily through driver productivity, supported by route and round optimisation and a move to variable pay for subcontractors.
There are also initiatives to reduce trunking, warehouse operations and back office costs.
04 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
