Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the of The Restaurant Group plc for the 52 week period ended Companies Act 2006 1 January 2012 which comprise the Company balance In our opinion: sheet and the related notes i to v. The financial reporting ff the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited framework that has been applied in their preparation is has been properly prepared in accordance with the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Companies Act 2006: and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
ff the information given in the report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are This report is made solely to the Companys members, prepared is consistent with the parent company financial as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters Matters on which we are required to report we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for by exception no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you Company and the Companys members as a body, for our if, in our opinion: audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
ff adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor not been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities ff the parent company financial statements and the part of statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in of the parent company financial statements and for being agreement with the accounting records and returns: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility ff certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company by law are not made: or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ff we have not received all the information and explanations International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we require for our audit.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial Scope of the audit of the financial statements statements of The Restaurant Group plc for the 52 week An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and period ended 1 January 2012. disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Timothy Steel Senior statutory auditor from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor policies are appropriate to the parent companys London, United Kingdom circumstances and have been consistently applied and 29 February 2012 adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: ff give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 1 January 2012: ff have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and ff have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 67
