Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts Significant accounting policies Change in accounting policies The Restaurant Group plc the Company is a company In the current financial year, the Group has adopted incorporated and registered in Scotland.
The consolidated International Accounting Standard 24 amended Related financial statements of the Company for the year ended Party Disclosures and Improvements to IFRSs May 2010.
1 January 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries There has been no impact on the consolidated financial together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest statements on adoption of these standards.
Future accounting policies a Statement of compliance At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in following Standards and Interpretations which have not been accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards applied in these financial statements were in issue but not IFRSs and its interpretations adopted by the International yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the by the EU : European Union.
ff IFRS 1 amended Severe Hyperinflation and b Going concern basis Removal of Fixed Dates for The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on First-time Adopters a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquires, ff IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Transfers of the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group Financial Assets has adequate resources to continue in operational existence ff IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the foreseeable future at the time of approving the financial ff IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Statements Group and further comments on going concern are set out in ff IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements the report of the Directors on pages 18 to 25. ff IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities c Basis of preparation ff IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The accounting year runs to a Sunday within seven days of ff IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other 31 December each year which will be a 52 or 53 week period.
Comprehensive Income ff IAS 12 amended Deferred Tax: Recovery of The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded Underlying Assets to the nearest thousand.
They have been prepared on the ff IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits historical cost basis except derivative financial instruments ff IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements which are held at their fair value.
Non-current assets and ff IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount Joint Ventures and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS standards listed above will have a material impact on the requires management to make judgements, estimates and financial statements of the Group in future periods.
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The d Basis of consolidation estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical i Subsidiaries experience and various other factors that are believed to be Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account, regardless of The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed managements intention to exercise that option or warrant.
Revisions to accounting estimates are The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the consolidated financial statements from the date that control revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision commences until the date that control ceases.
and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 39 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued ii Associates g Property, plant and equipment Associates are those entities in which the Group has Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less significant influence, but not control, over the financial and accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements see accounting policy l. include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have date that significant influence commences until the date that different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of of property, plant and equipment.
losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount would be reduced to nil and recognition Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made The owner-occupied properties excluding land element payments on behalf of an associate.
acquired by way of finance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less Intragroup balances and any gains and losses or income and accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated see accounting policy l. Lease payments are accounted for in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised as described in accounting policy s. gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised Subsequent costs losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that e Foreign currency the future economic benefits embodied with the item will flow Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income balance sheet.
Transactions in foreign currencies are statement as an expense as incurred.
translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
The profit and loss accounts for overseas Depreciation operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a the periods covered by the accounts.
Exchange differences straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part that relate to the net equity investment in overseas activities of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated are taken directly to reserves.
useful lives are as follows: f Derivative financial instruments Freehold land Indefinite The Group uses derivative financial instruments, where Freehold buildings 50 years appropriate, to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising Long and short leasehold property Term of lease or 50 years, from operational, financing and investment activities.
In whichever is lower accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold Fixtures and equipment 310 years or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Motor vehicles 4 years However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Computer equipment 35 years are accounted for as trading instruments.
h Intangible assets Goodwill Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at cost.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments the acquisition method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net of the item being hedged.
The Group does not currently hold identifiable assets acquired.
The classification and accounting treatment of business The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 has not that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest balance sheet at 1 January 2004. rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
40 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment m Share-based payment transactions losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is The share option programme allows Group employees to formally tested bi-annually for impairment see accounting acquire shares of the Company and all options are equitypolicy l. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of settled.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally Any excess of fair value of net assets over consideration on entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is acquisition are recognised directly in the income statement.
measured using a Stochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
i Trade and other receivables The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less the actual number of share options that vest except where impairment losses see accounting policy l. forfeiture is only due to market based conditions not achieving the threshold for vesting.
j Stock Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
n Provisions Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result completion and selling expenses.
of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is k Cash and cash equivalents material, provisions are determined by discounting the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and current market assessments of the time value of money form an integral part of the Groups cash management are and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
o Deferred and current tax Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit at l Impairment the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred indication of impairment.
tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of For property, plant and equipment, the carrying value of each the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
cash generating unit CGU is compared to its estimated value in use.
Value in use calculations are based on discounted cash Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected flows over the remaining useful life of the CGU between 2 and to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are 50 years.
The discount rate used is the rate believed by the expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that are Board to reflect the risks associated with each CGU.
enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
For goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, the p Pensions recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
The Group makes contributions for selected employees into An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying defined contribution pension plans and these contributions are amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its charged to the income statement as they become payable.
Impairment losses are recognised in The Group does not operate any defined benefit plans.
the income statement and are not subsequently reversed.
q Onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 41 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued r Revenue Critical accounting judgements and key sources Revenue represents amounts received and receivable for of estimation and uncertainty services and goods provided excluding value added tax In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and voluntary gratuities left by customers for the benefit of as described above, management has made a number of employees and is recognised at the point of sale.
judgements and estimations of which the following are the most significant: s Expenses i Operating lease payments a Impairment of carrying value of associate Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the The investment in Living Ventures Restaurants Group Limited income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the and the loan note of 10.4m receivable from a subsidiary of lease.
Incentives to enter into an operating lease are also spread that company were fully provided against in the years ended on a straight-line basis over the lease term as a reduction in 30 December 2007 and 31 December 2006.
review of the trading performance of the company, the Directors have concluded that this treatment is appropriate ii Finance lease payments and no adjustment has been made in either the current or Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the the previous year.
Further details are provided in note 12. finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the b Impairment of goodwill and property, plant lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of and equipment interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
The Group formally determines whether property, plant and equipment and goodwill are impaired on a bi-annual basis.
iii Pre-opening expenses This requires the Group to determine the lowest level of Property rentals and related costs incurred up to the date assets which generate largely independent cash flows cash of opening of a new restaurant are written off to the income generating units or CGU and to estimate of the value in use statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Promotional of these assets or CGUs: and compare these to their carrying and training costs are written off to the income statement in value.
Cash generating units are deemed to be individual the period in which they are incurred.
units, a collection of units or a brand depending on the nature of the trading environment in which they operate.
Calculating iv Borrowing costs the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of Debt is stated net of borrowing costs which are spread the future cash flows of each CGU and to choose a suitable over the term of the loan.
All other borrowings costs are discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those recognised in the income statement in the period in which cash flows.
The discount rate used in the year ended they are incurred.
1 January 2011 for all CGU was based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 8.4% year ended t Dividend policy 2 January 2001: 9.5% as the Directors believe there are In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet broadly equal risks associated with each CGU.
No Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not impairment is required in the year ended 1 January 2012. recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date, and are recognised in the financial statements when they have received approval by shareholders.
42 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011
