co. uk advisers and shareholder information Contacts Registered office Corporate advisers Managing Director: Ed Williams Rightmove plc Financial adviser Chief Operating Officer and 4th Floor UBS Investment Bank Finance Director: Nick McKittrick 33 Soho Square Joint brokers Company Secretary: Liz Taylor London W1D 3QU UBS Limited Website: www.
co. uk Registered in England no.
6426485 Numis Securities Limited Auditor KPMG Audit Plc Financial calendar 2012 Bankers 2011 full year results 24 February 2012 Barclays Bank Plc Annual General Meeting 9 May 2012 HSBC Bank Plc Final dividend record date 11 May 2012 Final dividend payment 8 June 2012 Solicitors Interim Management Statement May, November 2012 Slaughter and May Half year results 1 August 2012 Pinsent Masons Interim dividend November 2012 Registrar Capita Registrars Shareholder enquiries The Companys registrar is Capita Registrars.
They will be pleased to deal with any questions regarding your shareholding or dividends.
Please notify them of your change of address or other personal information.
Their address details are: Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Capita Registrars is a trading name of Capita Registrars Limited.
Capita shareholder helpline: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras Overseas: 44 20 8639 3399 Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Through the website of our registrar, Capita Registrars, shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online and facilities include electronic communications, account enquiries, amendment of address and dividend mandate instructions.
84 business review corporate governance financial statements rightmove plc annual report 2011 business review corporate governance financial statements rightmove plc annual report 2011 www.
co. uk business review corporate governance financial statements rightmove plc annual report 2011 business review corporate governance financial statements rightmove plc annual report 2011 www.
co. uk CSee all our properties 24 7 on perfCMYM CCMMYYY Your personalised open closed sign K 1nrecty to r2p and 3 4 00016 openclose DUAL final.
pdf 1 28 10 2011 12:57 Takig passers-by dilYOUR branch poerties on Rightmove - only yours Britain moves at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Greater Manchester moves at rightmove.
Alverdiscott Suffolk moves at rightmove.
Alverdiscott moves moves at rightmove.
Alcester moves at moves at rightmove.
Greater Greater Manchester moves at rightmove.
Aigburth moves at Manchester moves at rightmove.
Althorp Liverpool moves at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire Northamptonshire Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Ahoghill moves at Ahoghill moves at rightmove.
Northumberland moves Rightmove plc Northumberland moves at rightmove.
Alnwick moves moves at rightmove.
Alverdiscott moves at at rightmove.
Alcester moves at Britain moves at rightmove.
co. uk is the UKs largest property portal.
Greater Suffolk moves at rightmove.
Alverdiscott moves Manchester moves at rightmove.
Alcester moves at Our aim is to be the place for all UK home movers to find details of all Liverpool moves at rightmove.
Greater Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Ahoghill moves Manchester moves at rightmove.
properties available to buy or rent.
The website provides an easy-to-use but at rightmove.
Northumberland Liverpool moves at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire moves at rightmove.
Ahoghill moves at sophisticated online property search.
With the depth of information that it Kingston moves at rightmove.
Northumberland moves Alnwick moves at rightmove.
Kingston provides, home hunters can immediately identify a preferred property.
Greater Manchester moves at moves at rightmove.
Devon moves at The service is directed at four key membership groups: rightmove.
estate agents Aigburth moves at rightmove.
Northumberland moves at Alcester moves at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshir lettings e Altrincham m agents oves at rightmove.
Kingston Greater Manchester moves at rightmove.
Aigburth moves at moves at rightmove.
Althorp new homes developers moves at rightmove.
Devon moves at Northamptonshire Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Aldeburgh moves at Ahoghill moves at rightmove.
overseas homes agents offering properties outside the UK but interested rightmove.
Britain moves Alverdiscott moves at rightmove.
Suffolk moves at in advertising to UK-based home hunters.
Aigburth Devon moves at rightmove.
Greater Manchester moves Althorp Northamptonshire Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Kingston moves at at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire Altrincham moves rightmove.
Aigburth Contents Britain moves at rightmove.
Alverdiscott Althorp Northamptonshire Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Kingston moves at moves at rightmove.
Alnwick moves at moves at rightmove.
1 Highlights 6 Investment in the future Greater Manchester moves at rightmove.
Aigburth moves at Britain moves at rightmove.
Liverpool move 2 s Chairman at rightmove.
Alcester m s statement oves at rightmove.
Aldeburgh moves at ri7 gh tmove.
Suf Key performance indicators folk moves at rightmove.
Althorp Suffolk moves at rightmove.
Alverdiscott moves Northamptonshire Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Alcester moves at investment in the future key performance indicators chairmans statement the key performance indicators that we monitor include: Ahoghill moves at rightmove.
Greater How to How to incr increase ease awar awareness eness Rightmove continues to drive a strong of your of your brand brand and pr and property operty conversion of profits to cash enabling us to stock on Facebook stock on Facebook with with Northumberland moves at rightmove.
Gr supporting eater Manchester moves at righ nUMt ber of a move.
Alver Dvertisers discott moves at rightmove.
Britain Manchester moves at rightmove.
return all of the cash from operating activities Rightmove Rightmove our agents Scott Forbes in 2011 to shareholders through either see page 10 Chairman innovation 18,276 dividends or the repurchase of shares.
see page 12 Market share total membership at end of 2011 was 18,276 2010: 18,042, page iMpressions moves at rightmove.
Liverpool moves at righ up 1.3% year on year tmove.
Suffolk Liverpool moves at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire It is my pleasure to present Rightmove plcs results for the Rightmove continues to drive a strong conversion of profits Sale of Holiday Lettings % year ended 31 December 2011. to cash enabling us to return all of the cash from operating In October 2011 we received the final 4.9m of contingent Annual General Meeting and resolutions 84 Rightmove stakeholders have much to be pleased about activities in 2011 to shareholders through either dividends consideration from the June 2010 sale of our 66.7% The resolutions being proposed at the Annual General 9.3 billion of the market share of the top 4 based on 2011 performance across a variety of measures.
or the repurchase of shares.
In 2011 we bought back shareholding in Holiday Lettings Holdings Limited.
The final Meeting are similar in nature to resolutions from prior years.
Uk property websites by pages page impressions up from moves at rightmove.
Alnwick Most importantly, Rightmove has become synonymous with moves a 4.4m shar tes at an average price of 11.10 per shar rightmove.
e whilst Northumberland cumulative net proceeds from this sale were 21.4m, of A summary of the business to be conducted is described in moves at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire Altrincham m viewed, 2% up on 2010 oves at righ 7.6 billion in 2010 tmove.
Alverdiscott moves at Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Ahoghill moves at source: experian hitwise and rightmove: source: rightmove property advertising and is one of the top ten most popular increasing dividends by 29% to 18.0p 2010: 14.0p.
which 1.7m will remain in escrow until 2014. the Directors Report.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting December 2011 and December 2010 websites in the UK.
With over nine billion page impressions In total we returned 65.1m to shareholders through will be published in March 2012.
I and the rest of the Board served on our fixed internet, mobile and tablet platforms, dividends and share buy backs.
Dividend look forward to answering any questions and updating Just because your Just because youre e not on it not on it Most popular 2011 was the busiest year in our history.
Website traffic grew Results do not come without investment in employees.
The Board announced that it would increase the interim shareholders further on the development of the business at 22% year on year generating record visibility and enquiries for While our business model is not labour intensive, with dividend to 7.0p per ordinary share which was paid on our Annual General Meeting which will take place at 10am doesn doesnt mean your t mean your UK websites rightmove.
300 employees at the year end, we ar Brit e very pleased to ain moves at rightmove.
on 9 May 2012 at the offices of UBS Limited at 1 Finsbury Kingston moves at rightmove.
customers won customers wont be!
Consistent with our policy of increasing 1.
Facebook For several years Rightmove has been evolving from a have judiciously added to the ranks of senior management the total dividend for the year in line with underlying operating Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP.
average revenUe Uks largest simple subscription business model to become a provider ensuring that the skills and experience are available to profits, the Board proposes to pay a final dividend of 11.0p 2.
Google UK property portal properties DisplayeD 3. eBay UK per aDvertiser of a broad set of property advertising products for our maintain high standards of service to customers and 2010: 9.0p per ordinary share for a total dividend for the On behalf of shareholders, I would like to thank Ed Williams customers.
We are especially pleased that over two-thirds home seekers alike.
The final dividend, subject to and his team for the achievements of the past year.
Aldeburgh move of our customers now take advantage of this wider pr s at righ oduct tmove.
I want to express my thanks to our employees who Suffolk m sharove eholder approval, will be paid on 8 June 2012 to s at righ healthy growth in average spend per advertiser at the start of tmove.
Amazon UK 443 1.1 million set, allowing them to better promote their properties, brand continue to put their efforts into making Rightmove the best all shareholder on the register on 11 May 2012. the year and in the absence of any unexpected and significant 6.
UK & Ireland Mail properties displayed on and proposition.
place for home hunters to find their next home and for deterioration in the UK housing market, the Board remains per month, up 17% on 2010 no.
co. uk at The diversity of our product offerings and industry leading property advertisers to reach the widest possible audience.
The Board of directors confident of growing the business further in 2012. our brand property website 31 December 2011, reach contributed to another record operating performance I was delighted to announce the appointment of 00024 SocMed 8pp v3.
BBC News see page 14 same as 2010 with revenue and underlying operating profit 1 increasing by Financial results Peter Brooks-Johnson to the Board as an executive home developers Manchester moves at rightmove.
Our sustained growth has seen In terms of financial results, 2011 set new records for director on 10 January 2011.
Peter joined Rightmove in see page 8 10.
UK & Ireland Rightmove move from a new entrant into the FTSE 350 five both revenue and profits.
Underlying operating profit 1 was 2006 and has led our main operating business since 2009.
Source: Experian Hitwise, January 2012 years ago, into one of the top 200 listed UK companies by up 23% to 69.4m 2010: 56.6m driven by strong organic His appointment demonstrates the depth of talent within market capitalisation and in 2011 Rightmoves share price revenue growth coupled with a lower increase in operating the business.
enqUiries corporate estate agents was the second best performing of any FTSE 350 company.
Underlying basic earnings per share EPS My thanks go to the Board more generally for its Scott Forbes anD new hoMe Developers Liverpool moves at rightmove.
The increase in EPS contribution and support over the last year.
Chairman SHOW HOME was strengthened by the repurchase of 4.4m 2010: 4.2m % 19.6 million shares.
As at 31 December 2011 the net cash position was enquiries up from 18.6 million 96 21.8m 2010: 23.1m.
NOW OPEN Mobile enquiries in 2010 24 25 of both the largest corporate estate agents and new homes Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Brita developers advertise on in m oves at rightmove.
co. uk 228 million searches across mobile platforms up 168% from 85 million in 2010 at rightmove.
1 From continuing operations and before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives and no related adjustment for tax.
Greater Manchester m 6 oves at rightmove.
Alcester 2 3 Kingston moves at rightmove.
Greater Alnwick moves at rightmove.
Devon Manchester moves at rightmove.
Aldeburgh Liverpool moves at rightmove.
Greater Manchester moves at Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Ahoghill moves at 4 Business and financial review rightmove.
Northumberland moves business and financial review continued business and financial review continued rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire Altrincham at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire Mark moves at rightmove.
Kingston moves moves at rightmove.
Alnwick moves at continuing a Aigburth moves at rightmove.
Aldeburgh record of moveinnovation s at rightmove.
Kingston moves at In 2011, we increased the number of account managers to It has also been a year of investment in new products Net financial expenses Cash flow and net debt SHOW HOME allow us to spend more time with customers and help them which will be launched in 2012.
These include three products A net financial credit of 0.1m 2010: 0.2m was recorded, Cash generated from operations was 67.7m 2010: 58.8m.
Althorp Northamptonshire Altrincham move understand the wider range of benefits to be derived fr s at righ omt move.
Gr for use on our mobile platforms and the introduction of the eater Manchesgh tmove.
Br being inter it est income on cash balances, of ain m f-set by bank ove Cash conversion was 108% of operating pr s at righ ofit.
Alnwick moves at Rightmove membership.
These benefits include management local valuation alert service for agents eager to win more charges and fees in relation to our money market facility.
Tax payments increased to 14.3m 2010: 12.2m information and reporting tools, competitor comparisons and sales instructions.
resulting in net cash from operating activities of 53.4m NOW OPEN reports and marketing material which customers can use Earnings per share 2010: 46.5m.
directly with home sellers and landlords.
Our focus Underlying basic EPS 1 increased 26% to 50.3p Capital expenditure was 0.5m 2010: 1.2m.
The higher 2 Our focus remains the UK online property advertising market.
Diluted EPS increased 22% to 42.3p expenditure in 2010 reflected increased investment in database Aigburth moves at rightmove.
Liverpool moves at righ Innovation in advertising pr tmove.
oducts Alcester We see this sustained focus as a strength of the business and moves at rightmove.
The grfolk owth in EPS was helped by our shar move e licences and a disk storage solution.
2011 saw strong growth in the adoption of our additional a key contributor to our success.
buy back programme which reduced the weighted average The final element of consideration received from the sale advertising products, particularly the display advertising We believe that Rightmove would be a major beneficiary of number of ordinary shares in issue to 104.8m 2010: 108.0m.
of HLL in June 2010 contributed a further 4.9m of cash in products introduced in 2010 and email campaigns for new any increase in the number of agents in the market or number the year.
Around half our revenue growth has come of developments being marketed by new homes developers.
Profit on disposal of HLL Proceeds of 6.1m 2010: 3.9m were received on the rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire Altrincham move from spend on additional advertising pr s at r oducts.
Gr However, that is more a function of improvements in the wider eater Manchester m oves at rightmove.
Alverdiscott m A further pr ove ofit of 0.5m has been r s ecognised in r atelation r igh exercise of shar tmove.
Kingston Britain moves at rightmove.
Taking the year as a whole, 25% of revenue came from property market and economic outlook.
We remain committed to the sale of HLL.
This is due to the final element of A total of 48.3m was invested during 2011 in the spending by our customers over and above that spent on to increasing the absolute amount and the proportion of their consideration being higher than estimated due to a better repurchase of our own shares 2010: 29.4m whilst a further listing properties, as compared to 21% in 2010.
In absolute overall marketing budgets that our customers choose to spend than expected performance by the HLL business.
terms, spending on these products was up 43% on the with us.
The Group entered into an agreement with Barclays Bank previous year.
We would expect to see the proportion of total Statement of financial position Plc for a 10.0m uncommitted money market loan.
To date moves at rightmove.
Aigburth spending accounted for by these and future similar pr m oducts ove Uncertainties, thr s a eats and risks t rightmove.
Alcester move The Groups s statement of financial position r at righ emains tmove.
no amount has been drawn under the facility and it has been Aldeburgh moves at rightmove.
Alnwick Suffolk moves at rightmove.
Alverdiscott moves rise in the coming years.
The Rightmove business model has proven to be remarkably strong with total equity of 24.7m at 31 December 2011 extended for a further year until February 2013.
Many of our customers continued to take advantage of resilient in the unprecedented downturn in the property 2010: 27.9m and cash balances of 21.8m As a result of the cash movement noted above, net cash at helping new a scheme we offer, where for a commitment to spend an market experienced in 2008.
We have been able to grow 2010: 23.1m.
The Board is additional amount every month all year typically 275 per significantly even in the difficult housing market thereafter.
As a result of better trading, trade receivables in current confident that with the existing cash resources and banking moves at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshir month in 2011 they can select whatever combination of The numbers of estate agents, lettings agents and new home e Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Greater Manchester m assets increased by 29% to 13.1m 2010: 10.2m.
facilities in place, the Group and the Company will r ove emain cash s at rightmove.
Devon moves at at rightmove.
Alcester moves at our additional advertising products they wish in return for developers are inevitably affected by the level of property Trade and other payables increased by 4.9m to 20.9m positive and will have adequate resources to continue in a discount against the individual list price of the products.
transactions, which continue to be below historic trading 2010: 16.0m mainly due to an increase in the accrual for the operational existence for the foreseeable future.
home developers Adoption of this scheme has resulted both in a significant levels.
We do not believe, given the wider state of the During 2011 we have continued to invest potential liability for employers NI on share-based incentives increase in the average spend on Rightmove per advertiser economy and the specific challenges of the mortgage together with an increase in deferred revenue.
Our deferred tax and a continued high predictability of our income streams.
market, that 2012 will see any substantial increase in in serving home movers.
We launched a mOBILE assets have grown to 10.7m 2010: 6.7m representing rightmove.
brand new version of the iPhone App, Aigburth moves at rightmove.
Greater transaction volumes as compared to the past three years.
future tax benefits from share-based incentives.
which now includes key features such as In support of our new home developers, neW HOMe develOpeRs we have launched development specific synchronisation with the main website and 228 million % map based searching.
This App has been searches across mobile micro-sites which provide home movers rightmove.
Northumberland moves at ridownloaded ar ghtmove.
platforms up 168% e Altrincham moves at rightmove.
with more comprehensive information from 85m in 2010 on the development and its environs.
24 25 of the largest new home developers advertise on Rightmove.
co. uk Alverdiscott moves at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire 8 9 12 13 Alcester moves at rightmove.
Althorp Northamptonshire Altrincham moves at Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Northumberland moves moves at rightmove.
Kingston Althorp Northamptonshire Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Ahoghill move 16 s Dir at r ectors and officers ightmove.
Aigburth moves at 43 righ Auditor tmove.
Liverpool m s report oves at right4 move.
Alcester m 7 Consolidated statement of oves at rightmove.
Aldeburgh m 50 Company statement of oves at rightmove.
Aldeburgh moves at cash flows changes in shareholders 18 Senior management team 44 Consolidated statement of Britain moves at rightmove.
equity comprehensive income 48 Company statement of Suffolk moves at rightmove.
Alverdiscott Alverdiscott moves at rightmove.
19 Corporate social moves at rightmove.
Kingston moves at r cash flows ightmove.
Ahoghill moves at righ 51 tmove.
Notes forming part of the Aigburth moves at righ tmove.
Alcester Alcester moves at rightmove.
responsibility 45 Consolidated statement of moves at rightmove.
Aigburth moves at financial statements financial position 49 Consolidated statement of 21 Directors report Greater Manchester moves at rightmove.
Althorp changes in shareholders 84 Advisers and shareholder rightmove.
Alcester moves a 46 t r i Company statement of ghtmove.
24 Corporate governance Northamptonshire Altrincham moves at rightmove.
Alverdiscott m equity oves at rightmove.
Devon move information s at rightmove.
financial position Ahoghill moves at rightmove.
30 Remuneration r Aigburth move eport s at rightmove.
Britain moves Northumberland moves at rightmove.
Suffolk moves at Designed and produced by TeamPublishing www.
Alverdiscott moves at Devon moves at rightmove.
Alcester moves at Aldeburgh moves at rightmove.
Greater Manchester moves rightmove plc annual report 2011 Rightmove plc annual report 2011 B rit ain moves at Rightmove plc 4th Floor 33 Soho Square London W1D 3QU Registered in England no 6426485 Millions of home hunters use Rightmove on the move.
iPhone app | iPad app | Mobile site Scan the QR code to visit the investor section of the Rightmove website.
