Business Support & Operations and consider our commitment to sustainable development as fundamental Exploration to securing our social licence to operate.
The Group has had a sustained commitment to exploration since 1946 and considers exploration to be one of its core competencies.
A fundamental Safety element of the Groups business strategy is a focus on finding and mining The Exploration groups all injury frequency rate has deteriorated from only the largest, lowest-cost resources that are profitable at all parts of the 1.18 at the end of 2010 to 1.52 at the end of 2011.
Access to experienced commodity cycle.
We refer to these as Tier 1 resources.
Mature Group employees and contractors remains a challenge in light of rapid expansion operations, such as Weipa, the Pilbara and Rssing, were Tier 1 greenfield across the industry.
The Exploration group continues to focus on discoveries by Rio Tinto.
The value of these discoveries is still being implementing critical controls around high-risk activities such as aviation, realised after more than 40 years of mine production.
The Exploration group is accountable for greenfield exploration Performance programmes, provides technical assistance to business units on brownfield An Order of Magnitude project at Amargosa in Brazil delivered the exploration, and supports business development groups in the evaluation Tier 1 bauxite deposit to Rio Tinto Alcan for pre-feasibility study.
Ongoing of merger and acquisition opportunities.
Greenfield exploration aims to exploration in the Amargosa orbit identified multiple bauxite occurrences establish completely new operating business units, involving geographic or for resource definition in 2012. commodity diversification away from existing Group operations.
Brownfield Drilling in the Orientale Province of the Democratic Republic of Congo, exploration is directed at sustaining or growing existing Group businesses.
in joint venture with Delrand Resources and Kilo Goldmines, returned The evolution of a project from target generation to investment approval, intersections of high-grade iron ore at Mount Asonga and Zatua.
implementation and commissioning involves a series of study stages that An option to joint venture was entered into with North Atlantic Potash Inc. aim to deliver a progressive increase in confidence in the technical and a subsidiary of JSC Acron, to explore for potash on nine permitted areas in economic parameters of the project.
These exploration and evaluation Saskatchewan, Canada.
A Project of Merit has been initiated based on initial studies can take ten to 20 years, with sustainable development criteria drill results.
applied throughout the project development cycle.
In the brownfield environment, Exploration handed over the Bourne Target generation and testing involves the progression of a project from Highway project in the Pilbara, Australia, to Rio Tintos Iron Ore group.
concept to demonstration of mineralisation and declaration as A Project Drill testing of targets in the orbit of Iron Ore Company of Canada of Merit.
Where mineralisation is identified through drilling to be of a grade operations returned multiple mineralised intercepts for assessment in and quantity sufficient to be of economic interest to the relevant Rio Tinto 2012.
In Mozambique, exploration commenced on licences acquired under product group, projects are progressed to Order of Magnitude Study.
This the Riversdale acquisition and adjacent tenement secured under option involves an assessment of a range of options to establish economic viability agreement.
Order of Magnitude studies were initiated at Lake Elphinstone, of the project, and determine whether its potential value is sufficient to Mount Robert and Valeria in the Bowen Basin, Australia.
On the Rssing justify committing significant resources to detailed evaluation.
A successful mine lease in Namibia, evaluation of the Z20 prospect continued.
Order of Magnitude Study results in the declaration of a discovery, and the transfer of project management accountability to the relevant Rio Tinto The Altai Nuurs coking coal deposit in Mongolia and the Sari Gunay gold product group.
deposit in Iran were divested.
Exploration projects in Jordan and Guyana were terminated due to poor results.
The following table shows the Exploration groups Tier 1 discoveries since 2001: Several test flight programmes of the VK1 airborne gravity gradiometer Year Discovery Commodity Location were conducted in Western Australia throughout the year, including the 2002 Resolution Copper US first flights of a second improved system.
Production flying is anticipated in 2012.
2004 Simandou Iron ore Guinea 2005 La Granja Copper Peru Gross cash expenditure on exploration and evaluation in 2011 was 2005 Caliwingina Iron ore Australia US$1,437 million, representing a US$843 million increase over 2010 2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia gross expenditure of US$594 million due to ramp-up of evaluation project 2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique activities.
Gross expenditure was offset by US$89 million pre-tax proceeds 2009 Jadar Lithium Borates Serbia from divestment of Tier 2 exploration assets.
At the end of 2011, the Exploration group was actively exploring in 18 Outlook countries, and assessing opportunities in a further six countries, for a broad The Exploration group will explore for a range of commodities across range of commodities including bauxite, copper, coking coal, diamonds, at least 18 countries in 2012.
Early stage target generation will be a key iron ore, nickel, potash and uranium.
enabler of sustained exploration success.
The next crop of potential discoveries includes: Strategy Project Commodity Country Stage The purpose of Exploration is to add value to the Group by discovering or acquiring resources that can increase future cash flows.
Exploration Amargosa Orbit Bauxite Brazil Project of Merit programmes are prioritised on a global basis so that only the most Saskatchewan Potash Potash Canada Project of Merit attractive opportunities are pursued.
Priorities are determined in Bafwasende Iron ore Democratic Project of Merit consultation with the product groups, with investment decisions being Republic of Congo driven not by location or choice of commodity but rather by the quality of each opportunity.
Other Business Support & Operations The Exploration group is organised geographically into regional multiIn addition to Exploration, the following parts of the Group are included in commodity teams, with head offices in London, Salt Lake City and Brisbane.
Business Support & Operations: Business Evaluation: Corporate Assurance: This structure provides a balance of global reach and local presence.
Economics & Markets: Group Risk: Global Business Services: Rio Tinto Japan: Rio Tinto Singapore Holdings: Cable: Pacific Aluminium and Other Exploration teams frequently present the first face of Rio Tinto in a Aluminium Sebree and Lynemouth aluminium operations, three specialty community and lay the groundwork for what could become a multi-decade alumina plants and the Gardanne refinery.
We place a high priority on effective community engagement 30 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report
