Financial statements Notes t Notes to o the 2011 financial st the 2011 financial sta atements tements Reconciliation with Aus Reconciliation with Aust tralian Accounting Standards ralian Accounting Standards 1 1 Principal Principal ac accounting counting policies policies The The Group Groups s finan financ cial ial stat statem ements ents h ha ave five b been een pr prepare epared d in in accor accord dance ance w wiith th IFRS IFRS a as s ad adopt opte ed d by by th the e Euro Europea pean n Union Union EU EU IFR IFRS S, , which which differs differs in in certain certain respec respects ts fro from m th the e version version of of IF IFRS RS th that at is is ap applicabl plicable e in in Australia Australia referred referred to to as as Aus Australian tralian Accounti Accounting ng S St tanda andards rds AAS AAS.. Corporate Corporate inf info ormation rmation The The financial financial statements statements of of the the Group Group were were authorised authorised for for issue issue in in a acco ccorda rdance nce with with a a directors directors resoluti resolution on on on 5 5 March March 2012.
Rio Rio Tinto Tinto pl plc c and and Prior Prior to to 1 1 January January 2004, 2004, the the Groups Groups financial financial st statements atements were were prepared prepared in in accordanc accordance e with with UK UK GAAP.
Un Under der EU EU IFRS IFRS goodwil goodwill l on on a ac cq quisitions uisitions p pr rior ior Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Limite Limited d are are li listed sted and and inc inco orporate rporated d res resp pec ectively tively on on Sto Stoc ck k Exc Exch hanges anges in in the the United United Kingdo Kingdom m and and Austra Australia.
Rio Rio Tinto Tinto pl plcs cs r re egistered gistered office office to to 1998, 1998, which which wa was s eliminated eliminated direc direct tly ly agains against t equity equity in in the the Grou Groups ps UK UK GAAP GAAP financia financial l statements, statements, has has not not been been reinstated.
Thi This s was was per perm mitt itte ed d is is at at 2 2 E Ea astbourne stbourne Terrace, Terrace, Lon London don W2 W2 6LG, 6LG, United United Kingdom Kingdom.. Ri Rio o Tinto Tinto Li Lim miited teds s register registered ed office office is is a at t 1 120 20 Collins Collins Street, Street, M Me ellb bourne, ourne, Australia, Australia, 3000.
3000. under under the the rules rules g go overning verning the the tran transition sition to to EU EU IFR IFRS S set set out out in in IF IFR RS S 1.
T The he equivalent equivalent Au Aus stralian tralian Standar Standard d, AASB AASB 1, 1, do does es no not t pro provide vide for for th the e n ne etting tting of of goo good dwill will agains against t equity equity.. As As a a con cons sequence, equence, shareh shareholders olders fund funds s und under er AAS AAS includ include e th the e residue residue of of such such go goodwill, odwill, which which a am mounte ounted d to to U US S$5 $537 37 million million Rio Rio Tinto Tintos s busine business ss is is finding, finding, m miini ning ng and and processing processing m miineral neral res reso ources.
Major Major pr produc oduct ts s are are iron iron ore, ore, al alu um minium inium, copper, copper, diam diamo onds, nds, coal, coal, uranium uranium, at at 31 31 D fide ecember cember 2 2011 011 2010: 2010: US$ US$5 58 84 4 million: million: 2009: 2009: U US S$597 $597 million.
gold gold and and iindustrial ndustrial mine minerals rals borax, borax, t tiit tani anium um dioxid dioxide e a an nd d salt.
Ac Activi tivities ties span span the the w wo orld rld b bu ut t are are strongly strongly represented represented in in Aust Australia ralia and and Nor Nort th h A Am merica erica with with significant significant businesses businesses in in South South America, America, Asia, Asia, Europe Europe and and Africa.
Save Save for for the the exc exce eption ption d fide escribe scribed d a above, bove, the the Group Groups s financial financial state statem me en nts ts drawn drawn up up in in a accordance ccordance with with EU EU IFRS IFRS are are consistent consistent wit with h the the re requirements quirements of of AAS AAS..
Basis Basis of of pre prep paration aration The The basis basis of of pre prep pa aratio ration n and and the the ac account counting ing policies policies used used in in preparing preparing the the financial financial st stat ate em ments ents for for th the e y ye ea ar r ended ended 31 31 D fide ece cemb mber er 2011 2011 are are set set out out below.
Outline of dual listed c Outline of dual listed co ompanies struc mpanies structure and basis of financial statements ture and basis of financial statements The The financial financial statements statements for for the the year year ended ended 31 31 D fide ecember cember 2011 2011 have have been been prepared prepared in in a accordanc ccordance e with with In International ternational Financ Financial ial Repo Reporting rting S St tandards andards as as ado adopte pted d by by the the EU EU EU EU IF IFRS RS and and with with In International ternational Financial Financial Reporti Reportin ng g S St tandards andards as as iissued ssued by by the the Inter Intern national ational Accounti Accountin ng g S Standards tandards B Bo oa ar rd d The The Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Group Group IFRS IFRS an and d interpr interpre etations tations issue issued d fr from om tim time e t to o ti time me b by y the the IFR IFRS S Interpr Interpre etation tations s Co Commit mmitt tee ee IF IFR RIC IC an and d a ad dopt opted ed by by the the EU EU t th hat at ar are e mandat mandator ory y These These are are the the fina financial ncial state statem men ents ts of of the the Gr Group oup for form med ed through through th the e m me erger rger of of econo econom mic ic interests interests of of Rio Rio Ti Tinto nto pl plc c and and Rio Rio Ti Tinto nto Li Limited mited Mer Merg ger, er, for for the the year year ended ended 31 31 D fide ece cember mber 2 2011, 011, the the C Co ompanies mpanies Act Act 2006 2006 a appl ppliic cable able to to compani companie es s reporting reporting und under er IFRS IFRS an and d in in acc acco ordance rdance with with a applic pplicable able and and pres presented ented by by both both Rio Rio Tinto Tinto pl plc c and and Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Limite Limited d as as their their con consolidate solidated d ac account counts s in in accordanc accordance e w wiith th both both Unite United d Ki Kingdom ngdom and and Austr Australian alian United United Kingdo Kingdom m lla aw, w, applica applicab ble le Au Australian stralian law law as as a am mended ended by by th the e Aust Australian ralian Securities Securities a an nd d Invest Investments ments C Co om mm mission ission Or Order der date dated d 22 22 D fide ecember cember 2010 2010 legislation legislation and and re regulations.
as as ame amende nded d on on 1 17 7 February February 2012 2012 and and Article Article 4 4 of of th the e European European Union Union IAS IAS regulati regulation.
T Th he e financial financial statements statements are are prepar prepared ed on on a a going going concern concern basis basis page page 118.
Merge Merger r terms terms On On 21 21 D fide ecember cember 1995, 1995, Ri Rio o Tinto Tinto pl plc c and and Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Li Limited, mited, which which are are lliist sted ed re res sp pec ectively tively on on Stoc Stock k Exchan Exchang ge es s in in the the United United K Kiingdo ngdom m and and Austr Australia, alia, The The EU EU IFR IFRS S finan financ cial ial information information h ha as s be been en drawn drawn u up p on on the the basi basis s of of ac accounting counting policies policies consistent consistent with with th those ose a applie pplied d in in the the fi financial financial statem statements ents for for entered entered into into a a du dual al listed listed co comp mpanies anies DLC DLC m me erger.
This This was was effe effecte cted d b by y contractual contractual arra arrangem ngements ents be betw twee een n the the c co om mp panies anies and and am amen end dm ments ents to to the the year year t to o 31 31 December December 2010 2010, exc exce ept pt f fo or r t the he foll followi owin ng: g: Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plcs s Me Memorandu morandum m and and Ar Articles ticles of of Asso Association ciation and and Rio Rio Tinto Tinto L Liimited miteds s C Co onstituti nstitution.
Amendment Amendment to to IAS IAS 24, 24, Rel Related ated part party y disclos disclosu ures res.. T Th he e defin definiit tiion on o of f a a re relate lated d party party ha has s been been cl clarif arified ied to to simpl simpliif fy y t th he e ide iden ntifi tific ca atio tion n of of related related party party rel rela ationships tionships.. As As a a result, result, Rio Rio Ti Tinto nto pl plc c and and Ri Rio o Ti Tinto nto Li Limited mited and and t th heir eir respectiv respective e gr groups oups o op per erat ate e t to oge gether ther as as a a single single ec economic onomic enter enterp prise, rise, with with neither neither ass assu um miing ng The The amendment amendment al also so extended extended the the fide definit finitiion on o of f a a related related party party to to incl include ude the the subs subsidia idiaries ries of of eq equit uity y acco accounted unted unit units.
s. a a dom domiinant nant role.
IIn n particular, particular, the the a arrangem rrangements: ents: Improvements Improvements to to IIFRS FRS 201 2010 0.. Th This is sta stan ndard dard co collates llates fu furt rther her mi minor nor cha chan nge ges s to to IFRS.
confer confer upon upon t th he e s sh hareho arehollders ders o of f Rio Rio Tinto plc a Tinto plc an nd Rio Tinto Limited a common d Rio Tinto Limited a common economic economic inte intere rest st in in bot both h group groups s: : IAS IAS 24 24 rela relates tes to to disclosure disclosure only only, prior prior year year inform information ation has has been been rec recla lassified ssified to to confor conform m with with the the current current presentati presentation.
The The r reclassification eclassification d do oe es s not not provide provide for for common common boards boards o of f directo director rs s an and d a a uni unifi fied ed ma man na ag ge emen ment t s st tru ructure: cture: affect affect prior prior year year st state atem ments ents of of financial financial position.
provide provide for for eq equal ualiis se ed d divide dividends nds a an nd d c ca apital pital d diist stri ribut butiions ons:: and and The The effect effect of of adopting adopting th the e Improvem Improvements ents standard standard is is not not m mate aterial rial to to Group Group earnings earnings or or to to shar shareholders eholders funds funds in in the the current current or or prior prior y ye ear.
provide provide for for t th he e sha shar reholde eholders rs of of R Riio o Tinto Tinto plc a plc an nd Rio Tinto Limited to ta d Rio Tinto Limited to take ke k ke ey y decis decisiio on ns s, incl including uding the the elect electiion on o of f directo director rs s, th throu roug gh h an an electo electoral ral p pr roced ocedure ure The The financial financial statements statements for for the the year year ended ended 31 31 D fide ecember cember 2010 2010 have have been been resta restat ted ed in in ac accordance cordance with with IFRS IFRS 3 3 Busin Business ess C Co ombination mbinations s Revi Revis sed, ed, in in w wh hic ich h t th he e publ public ic sha shar reholde eholders rs of of t th he e two two co companies mpanies ef effectivel fectively y vote vote o on n a a jjo oint int ba basi sis.
s. following following reclas reclassification sification of of certain certain balances balances r re elating lating to to th the e Cons Consolidati olidatio on n of of Oy Oyu u Tolgoi Tolgoi LLC.
R Re efer fer t to o no note te 39.
The The Merger Merger involv involved ed no no change change in in t th he e legal legal ownership ownership of of any any assets assets of of Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc or or Ri Rio o Tinto Tinto Li Limite mited, d, no nor r any any change change in in t th he e ownershi ownership p of of a an ny y The The Group Group has has not not applied applied the the f fo ollo llowing wing pronouncements pronouncements which which are are not not man mand datory atory f fo or r 2 2011 011 and and have have not not been been endorsed endorsed by by the the Europ European ean Uni Unio on: n: existi existing ng shares shares or or securities securities of of Rio Rio T Tiinto nto plc plc or or Ri Rio o Tinto Tinto Li Limi mite ted, d, nor nor th the e issue issue of of any any sha shar res es, securities securities or or pay paym ment ent by by way way of of cons consideration, ideration, sa sav five e for for Amendment Amendment to to IAS IAS 1, 1, F Financ inanciia all state statem ment ent present presenta atio tion n presen presentat tatiion on o of f it items ems of of other other comp comprehe rehensive nsive income.
the the issue issue by by each each com comp pany any of of on one e s sp pecial ecial v voting oting share share to to a a trust truste ee e co company mpany whic which h pro provides vides the the joint joint el ele ec ctoral toral proce proced dure ure f fo or r pub public lic shareh sharehol olders.
During During 2002, 2002, each each of of the the parent parent companies companies issued issued a a DLC DLC Di Dividend vidend Sha Shar re e to to facilitate facilitate the the effici efficient ent management management of of funds funds within within th the e DLC DLC s st tructure.
Amendment to IAS Amendment to IAS 12, 12, D Deferred Tax: eferred Tax: Recovery Recovery o of f u un nderl derlyi ying ng assets assets.. Amendment Amendment to to IAS IAS 19, 19, Emplo Employ yee ee be benefit nefits s.. Accounting Accounting st standards andards IAS IAS 28 28 r rev evised ised 2011, 2011, A Assoc ssociiates ates and and joint joint five ventures ntures..
The The financial financial stat statem ements ents have have be bee en n drawn drawn up up in in accordance accordance with with EU EU IIF FRS RS..
The The Merg Merger er was was acc acco ounted unted for for as as a a merger merger und unde er r UK UK GAAP.
As As per perm mitte itted d under under the the rules rules g go overning verning the the tran transition sition to to EU EU IFR IFRS S, which which are are se set t out out in in IFRS IFRS 1, 1, th the e Gro Grou up p did did no not t res rest tate ate business business c co om mb binatio inations ns that that occurr occurred ed before before Amendments Amendments to to IF IFRS RS 7, 7, Fina Finan nc cia iall in ins st trum rume ent nts s:: D Dis isc cllo os su ure res s.. the the transition transition da dat te e of of 1 1 January January 20 2004.
As As a a result, result, th the e DLC DLC m me erger rger of of e ec cono onom mic ic intere interes st ts s described described a abov bove e continues continues to to be be a accoun ccounte ted d for for a as s a a merger merger IFRS IFRS 9, 9, Fi Fin na an nci cial al iin nstr stru uments ments.. under under EU EU IFR IFRS S.. IFRS IFRS 10 10, Con Consolid solida ated ted fi fina nanci ncia al l state statem ments.
The The main main c co onseq nsequence uence of of ad adopting opting merger merger ra rath ther er th than an acq acquisition uisition ac acc co ounting unting is is that that th the e sta stat te em ment ent of of fin fina ancial ncial position position of of the the m merged erged Grou Group p includes includes the the asse assets ts and and lia liab bilities ilities of of Rio Rio Tint Tinto o pl plc c and and Rio Rio Tint Tinto o Limit Limite ed d at at their their carry carrying ing values values prior prior to to th the e merger, merger, subject subject to to a ad dju justm stme ents nts to to achieve achieve uniform uniformity ity IFRS 11, IFRS 11, Joint a Joint ar rra rangements ngements.. of of acc acco ounting unting poli polic cies, ies, rather rather than than a at t thei their r fair fair values values at at the the dat date e of of the the merger.
Fo For r a accou ccoun nting ting purposes purposes Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc and and R Riio o Tinto Tinto Li Limite mited d ar are e view viewed ed IFRS IFRS 12, 12, Disclos Disclosures ures of of interest interests s in in ot other her e en ntit titiies es.. as as a a single single pu public blic parent parent c co om mp pany any w with ith their their resp respecti ective five public public shareho shareholders lders b be eing ing the the sh shareholde areholders rs in in tha that t single single com comp pany.
As As a a result result the the a am mounts ounts attributabl attributable e t to o b bo ot th h Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc and and Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Li Limite mited d public public sh sharehol areholders ders are are includ included ed in in the the am amounts ounts a at ttributed tributed to to owner owners s o of f Rio Rio Tinto Tinto on on t th he e IFRS IFRS 13 13, Fa Faiir r val valu ue e m me easurem asureme ent nt.. state statem ment ent of of fina financial ncial position, position, inc inco om me e sta stat te em ment ent a an nd d stat statem ement ent of of c co om mp prehensive rehensive inc inco om me e.. IFRIC IFRIC 20 20, Stripping Stripping costs costs in in t th he e pr prod oductio uction n phase phase of of a a s surf urface ace mine.
Australian Australian Co Corpo rpor rations ations Ac Act t The The G Gr roup oup is is currently currently evaluating evaluating the the im impa pact ct of of th the e a above bove pron pronouncements.
The The follow followin ing g pronouncem pronouncemen ents, ts, all all o of f wh which ich are are m mandat andatory ory in in 2013, 2013, are are The The financi financial al stat statements ements are are drawn drawn up up iin n a ac ccordance cordance with with an an order, order, under under se section ction 340 340 of of the the Australi Australian an C Co orporations rporations Act Act 20 2001, 01, iissued ssued by by th the e Australian Australian expec expect ted ed t to o b be e th the e m mo ost st relevant relevant to to the the Group: Group: Securities Securities an and d Investment Investments s Commis Commission sion ASIC ASIC on on 22 22 December December 2010 2010 as as amen amended ded on on 1 17 7 February February 2012.
The The main main prov provisions isions of of the the o order rder a ar re e that that the the The The amendment amendment to to IAS IAS 19, 19, w wh hic ich h calc calculates ulates fina finance nce cost costs s on on a a net net fund funding ing basis basis.. financial financial state statem me en nts ts are are pr prepare epared d iin n accord accordance ance wi with th IFR IFRS S and and inc include lude a a reconci reconcilliiation ation fr from om EU EU IFR IFRS S to to the the Australian Australian equiv equiva alen lents ts of of IFR IFRS S s se ee e ab above.
IFRS IFRS 10 10, wh which ich fide defi fines fines th the p e pr rinc inciiple of ple of control control.. For For furthe further r details details of of th the e A AS SIC IC Class Class Order Order relief relief s see ee page page 213.
IFRS IFRS 11 11, wh which ich foc focu uses ses on on t th he e ri right ghts s and and obl obliigat gatiions ons of of joint joint a ar rrangemen rangements ts rathe rather r than than t th heir eir le legal gal fo form.
IFRS IFRS 12 12 whic which h incl includes udes the the d diisclo sclosure sure requ requirement irements s for for IFRS IFRS 10 10 a an nd d IFRS IFRS 1 11 1.. IFRIC IFRIC 20 20 w wh hic ich h spe spec cif ifies ies the the accou accoun nt tiing ng fo for r post post p pr roduct oductiion on st str riippi pping ng co costs sts.. As As expla explaiined ned iin n no note te h h below below the the G Gr ro ou up p cu curre rrentl ntly y defer defers s str striippi pping ng cost costs s iin nc cu ur rr red ed during during the the p pr roduct oductiion on stage stage o of f it its s operatio operations, ns, for for t th hose ose op operatio erations ns w wh here ere t th his is is is the the m mo ost st approp appropri riate ate bas basiis s fo for r m matc atchi hing ng t th he e c costs osts against against the the related related eco econ nomic omic benefit benefits s and and t th he e eff effe ect ct is is mater materiia all.. At At 3 31 1 December December 201 2011, 1, US$1.
US$1.6 6 billio billion n was was included included in in t th he e st stat atement ement of of fina financial ncial positio position n fo for r defe deferre rred d stripp strippiin ng g cost costs.
s. U Un nder der the the interp interpretat retatiion on t th his is b ba ala lance nce ca can n onl only y be be carried carried fo forward rward if if it it ca can n be be ident identiif fiied ed wit with h a a rema remaining component ining component of t of th he ore body.
Some of the bal Some of the bala ance ma nce may y be be writte written n off off to to reta retained ined earnings earnings o on n imp impllementatio ementation n of of t th he e Inte Interpreta rpretatio tion n.. IIF FR RS S 1 13 3, w wh hiic ch h p pr ro ov viides des a a c com omm mon on f fr ramework amework for for meas measur urin ing g fa faiir r va value lue.. 136 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
