Financial statements Rio Tinto financial information by business unit continued Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief Business units have been classified according to the Groups management structure.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based Pursuant to section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 Corporations Act, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued an order dated on their primary product.
The Aluminium group excludes Pacific Aluminium, Other Aluminium and the Cable division of Alcan Engineered Products 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012 that granted relief to Rio Tinto Limited from certain requirements of the Corporations Act in which are included in Other operations.
relation to the Companys financial statements and associated reports.
The order essentially continues the relief that has applied to Rio Tinto Limited since the formation of the Groups Dual Listed Companies DLC structure in 1995.
The order applies to Rio Tinto Limiteds financial reporting a Gross sales revenue includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries sales revenue and the Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries.
obligations for financial years and half-years ending between 31 December 2010 and 30 June 2014 inclusive.
b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Groups share of EBITDA relating to equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation and amortisation.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the same items that are excluded from Underlying earnings.
In essence, instead of being required under the Corporations Act to prepare consolidated financial statements covering only itself and its controlled c Net earnings represent profit after tax for the period attributable to the owners of the Rio Tinto Group.
Earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units are stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related to provisions.
Earnings attributed to business units do not include amounts that are excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings.
entities, the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated financial statements in which it, Rio Tinto plc and their respective controlled entities d The Group holds 65 per cent of Robe River Iron Associates, of which 30 per cent is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary.
The Groups net beneficial interest is, therefore, 53 per cent, net are treated as a single economic entity.
In addition, those consolidated financial statements are to be prepared: of amounts attributable to outside equity shareholders.
e Aluminium is now presented on an integrated operations basis splitting activities between Bauxite and Alumina, Primary Metal and Other integrated operations which in total reflect the results in accordance with the principles and requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS rather of the integrated production of aluminium and Other product group items which relate to other commercial activities.
2010 and 2009 comparative information has been adjusted accordingly.
than the Australian Accounting Standards AAS except for one limited instance in the case of any concise report, and in accordance with United Kingdom f Under the terms of a joint venture agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. financial reporting obligations generally: g Includes Rio Tintos 80 per cent interest in Coal and Allied prior to 16 December 2011 Rio Tintos interest was 75.7 per cent, which is managed by Rio Tinto Coal Australia, a 100 per cent subsidiary of Rio Tinto.
Coal and Allied owns a 40 per cent interest in Bengalla and an 80 per cent interest in Mount Thorley, giving the Group a beneficial interest at 31 December of 32 per cent on the basis that the transitional provisions of International Financial Reporting Standard 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and 64 per cent, respectively.
should be applied using the combined financial statements previously prepared for Rio Tinto Limited, Rio Tinto plc and their respective controlled entities h Diamonds includes Rio Tintos interests in Argyle 100 per cent, Diavik 60 per cent and Murowa 77.8 per cent.
under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United Kingdom, under which the DLC merger between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc was i Includes Rio Tintos interests in Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT 100 per cent, QMM 80 per cent and RBM attributable interest of 37 per cent.
On 1 February the Group announced it would take a majority stake in RBM.
Refer to Events after the statement of financial position date on page 198. accounted for using merger, rather than acquisition, accounting reflecting that neither Rio Tinto Limited nor Rio Tinto plc was acquired by, or is controlled j Includes Rio Tintos interests in Rio Tinto Borax 100 per cent.
Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interests in its talc operations on 1 August 2011. by, the other, and meaning that the existing carrying amounts, rather than fair values, of assets and liabilities at the time of the DLC merger were used to k Other operations include Rio Tintos 100 per cent interests in Pacific Aluminium, Other Aluminium and the Cable division of Alcan Engineered Products, Rio Tinto Marine, and its 39 per cent interest measure those assets and liabilities at formation : in Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products excluding the Cable division.
Rio Tinto completed the sale of its Colowyo coal mine on 1 December 2011. l Rio Tintos interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC is held indirectly through its investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Ivanhoe.
The Groups remaining interests in the assets of Ivanhoe, unrelated to Oyu Tolgoi LLC, on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc are a single company with their respective shareholders being the shareholders in that single are reported in the Copper group within Other.
On 24 January 2012, the Group took a majority stake in Ivanhoe and will consolidate Ivanhoe from that date Refer to Events after the statement of company : and financial position date on page 198. m Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets.
with a reconciliation, from EU IFRS to AAS, of the following amounts: consolidated profit for the financial year, total consolidated income for the financial The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units.
Amounts relating to equity accounted units not specifically funded by Rio Tinto are deducted before arriving at total capital expenditure for the Group.
year and total consolidated equity at the end of the financial year see page 136. n Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding post retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before deducting net debt.
Operating assets are less non-controlling interests, Those consolidated financial statements must also be audited in relation to their compliance with relevant Australian and United Kingdom which are calculated by reference to the net assets of the relevant companies ie net of such companies debt.
o Net assets held for sale at 31 December 2011 include Riversdales Zululand Anthracite Colliery ZAC which was acquired with a view to resale.
Net assets held for sale at 31 December 2010 relate to requirements.
Rio Tinto Limited must also prepare a Directors report which satisfies the content requirements of the Corporations Act Alcan Engineered Products excluding the Cable Division.
applied on the basis that for these purposes the consolidated entity is the Group, and the consolidated financial statements cover the Group.
This includes a Remuneration report see pages 86 to 118 prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act.
Rio Tinto Limited is also required to comply generally with the lodgement and distribution requirements of the Corporations Act including timing requirements in relation to those consolidated financial statements including any concise financial statements, the Auditors report and the Directors report.
The Corporations Act also requires that a binding resolution to adopt the Remuneration report be voted on by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting.
Rio Tinto Limited is not required to prepare separate consolidated financial statements solely for it and its controlled entities.
Rio Tinto Limited is also not required to prepare and lodge parent entity financial statements for itself in respect of each relevant financial year.
However, Rio Tinto Limited must in accordance with the Corporations Act include in the consolidated financial statements for the Group, as a note, various parent entity information regarding Rio Tinto Limited including in relation to assets, liabilities, shareholders equity, profit and loss, income, guarantees, contingent liabilities, and contractual commitments prepared in accordance with AAS see page 205. riotinto.
