Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards 1 Principal accounting policies The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS, which differs in certain respects from the version of IFRS that is applicable in Australia referred to as Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
Corporate information The financial statements of the Group were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on 5 March 2012.
Rio Tinto plc and Prior to 1 January 2004, the Groups financial statements were prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
Under EU IFRS goodwill on acquisitions prior Rio Tinto Limited are listed and incorporated respectively on Stock Exchanges in the United Kingdom and Australia.
Rio Tinto plcs registered office to 1998, which was eliminated directly against equity in the Groups UK GAAP financial statements, has not been reinstated.
This was permitted is at 2 Eastbourne Terrace, London W2 6LG, United Kingdom.
Rio Tinto Limiteds registered office is at 120 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia, 3000. under the rules governing the transition to EU IFRS set out in IFRS 1.
The equivalent Australian Standard, AASB 1, does not provide for the netting of goodwill against equity.
As a consequence, shareholders funds under AAS include the residue of such goodwill, which amounted to US$537 million Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
Major products are iron ore, aluminium, copper, diamonds, coal, uranium, at 31 December 2011 2010: US$584 million: 2009: US$597 million.
gold and industrial minerals borax, titanium dioxide and salt.
Activities span the world but are strongly represented in Australia and North America with significant businesses in South America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Save for the exception described above, the Groups financial statements drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS are consistent with the requirements of AAS.
Basis of preparation The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 are set out below.
Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU EU IFRS and with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board The Rio Tinto Group IFRS and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC and adopted by the EU that are mandatory These are the financial statements of the Group formed through the merger of economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited Merger, for the year ended 31 December 2011, the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and in accordance with applicable and presented by both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as their consolidated accounts in accordance with both United Kingdom and Australian United Kingdom law, applicable Australian law as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010 legislation and regulations.
as amended on 17 February 2012 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis page 118.
Merger terms On 21 December 1995, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, which are listed respectively on Stock Exchanges in the United Kingdom and Australia, The EU IFRS financial information has been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements for entered into a dual listed companies DLC merger.
This was effected by contractual arrangements between the companies and amendments to the year to 31 December 2010, except for the following: Rio Tinto plcs Memorandum and Articles of Association and Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution.
Amendment to IAS 24, Related party disclosures.
The definition of a related party has been clarified to simplify the identification of related party relationships.
As a result, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their respective groups operate together as a single economic enterprise, with neither assuming The amendment also extended the definition of a related party to include the subsidiaries of equity accounted units.
In particular, the arrangements: Improvements to IFRS 2010.
This standard collates further minor changes to IFRS.
confer upon the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited a common economic interest in both groups: IAS 24 relates to disclosure only, prior year information has been reclassified to conform with the current presentation.
The reclassification does not provide for common boards of directors and a unified management structure: affect prior year statements of financial position.
provide for equalised dividends and capital distributions: and The effect of adopting the Improvements standard is not material to Group earnings or to shareholders funds in the current or prior year.
provide for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to take key decisions, including the election of directors, through an electoral procedure The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 have been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised, in which the public shareholders of the two companies effectively vote on a joint basis.
following reclassification of certain balances relating to the Consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
The Merger involved no change in the legal ownership of any assets of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor any change in the ownership of any The Group has not applied the following pronouncements which are not mandatory for 2011 and have not been endorsed by the European Union: existing shares or securities of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor the issue of any shares, securities or payment by way of consideration, save for Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation presentation of items of other comprehensive income.
the issue by each company of one special voting share to a trustee company which provides the joint electoral procedure for public shareholders.
During 2002, each of the parent companies issued a DLC Dividend Share to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
Amendment to IAS 12, Deferred Tax: Recovery of underlying assets.
Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benefits.
Accounting standards IAS 28 revised 2011, Associates and joint ventures.
The financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS.
The Merger was accounted for as a merger under UK GAAP.
As permitted under the rules governing the transition to EU IFRS, which are set out in IFRS 1, the Group did not restate business combinations that occurred before Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures.
the transition date of 1 January 2004.
As a result, the DLC merger of economic interests described above continues to be accounted for as a merger IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
The main consequence of adopting merger rather than acquisition accounting is that the statement of financial position of the merged Group includes the assets and liabilities of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited at their carrying values prior to the merger, subject to adjustments to achieve uniformity IFRS 11, Joint arrangements.
of accounting policies, rather than at their fair values at the date of the merger.
For accounting purposes Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities.
as a single public parent company with their respective public shareholders being the shareholders in that single company.
As a result the amounts attributable to both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited public shareholders are included in the amounts attributed to owners of Rio Tinto on the IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
statement of financial position, income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
IFRIC 20, Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine.
Australian Corporations Act The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the above pronouncements.
The following pronouncements, all of which are mandatory in 2013, are The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with an order, under section 340 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001, issued by the Australian expected to be the most relevant to the Group: Securities and Investments Commission ASIC on 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012.
The main provisions of the order are that the The amendment to IAS 19, which calculates finance costs on a net funding basis.
financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS and include a reconciliation from EU IFRS to the Australian equivalents of IFRS see above.
IFRS 10, which defines the principle of control.
For further details of the ASIC Class Order relief see page 213.
IFRS 11, which focuses on the rights and obligations of joint arrangements rather than their legal form.
IFRS 12 which includes the disclosure requirements for IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
IFRIC 20 which specifies the accounting for post production stripping costs.
As explained in note h below the Group currently defers stripping costs incurred during the production stage of its operations, for those operations where this is the most appropriate basis for matching the costs against the related economic benefits and the effect is material.
At 31 December 2011, US$1.6 billion was included in the statement of financial position for deferred stripping costs.
Under the interpretation this balance can only be carried forward if it can be identified with a remaining component of the ore body.
Some of the balance may be written off to retained earnings on implementation of the Interpretation.
IFRS 13, which provides a common framework for measuring fair value.
com 137 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued Joint Joint ventures: ventures: A A joint joint venture venture is is a a contractual contractual arrangemen arrangement t wher whereby eby t tw wo o or or m mo ore re p pa artie rties s undertak undertake e an an ec economic onomic activity activity th that at is is subjec subject t t to o joi joint nt control.
1 1 Principal ac Principal accounting policies continued counting policies continued Joint Joint con cont trol rol is is the the con cont tractually ractually ag agreed reed sharing sharing of of co control ntrol such such that that significant significant operatin operating g an and d financial financial deci decisions sions require require th the e unanim unanimo ous us consent consent of of the the parties parties sharing sharing control.
In In some some situ situations, ations, joint joint contr contro ol l exists exists even even tho thou ugh gh the the G Gr rou oup p ha has s an an ownership ownership interest interest of of m mo ore re tha than n 50 50 per per cent cent because because of of Judgments Judgments in in applyin applying g accounting accounting polici policies es and and key key so sources urces of of esti estimation mation uncertainty uncertainty the the five veto to rights rights hel held d by by joint joint v five enture nture partne partners.
The The Gr Gro ou up p has has tw two o ty types pes of of joint joint venture: venture: Many Many of of the the a am mou ounts nts included included in in th the e financial financial stat statem ements ents involv involve e the the use use of of judgment judgment an and or d or es estim tima ation.
T Th hese ese judgm judgme ents nts a an nd d est estiim mate ates s are are based based Jointly Jointly contro controlled lled entities entities J JCEs : CEs : A A JCE JCE is is a a joint joint vent venture ure that that involv involves es t th he e esta establishmen blishment t of of a a corporation, corporation, partnership partnership or or oth othe er r entity entity in in which which e ea ach ch on on manage managem me ent nts s bes best t kn knowle owledge dge o of f the the rel refile evant vant fa fact cts s and and circums circumst tan ances, ces, having having regard regard to to previo previous us exp expe erience, rience, but but a ac ctua tual l result results s may may diffe differ r from from the the venturer venturer has has a a long long term term interest interest.. JCEs JCEs are are a accounted ccounted for for using using the the eq equity uity accounting accounting m me ethod.
am amounts ounts included included in in the the financia financial l st state atem ments.
Inform Information ation abou about t such such jju udgments dgments an and d est estiimation mation is is c co ontained ntained in in the the acc acco ounting unting po policies licies and and or or the the Not Note es s t to o th the e financial financial stat statem ements, ents, a an nd d the the key key a are rea as s are are summa summarised rised b be elow.
Jointly Jointly contro controlled lled assets assets J JCAs : CAs : JCA JCAs s do do not not involv involve e t th he e esta establishmen blishment t of of a a c co orporation, rporation, p pa art rtnership nership or or oth othe er r entity entity.. A A JCA JCA is is a a joint joint venture venture in in w wh hich ich the the ventu venturers rers hav have e joint joint control control over over the the a asse ssets ts c co ontributed ntributed to to or or ac acquired quired f fo or r the the p purposes urposes of of the the joint joint ven vent ture.
This This include includes s situations situations wher where e the the Areas Areas of of judg judgmen ment t that that have have th the e m mo ost st significant significant eff effe ect ct on on the the am amounts ounts rec reco ogn gnised ised in in t th he e financial financial state statem ments ents are: are: participants participants b be enef nefiit t from from the the joint joint a ac ctivity tivity through through a a s sh hare are of of th the e pro prod du uc ction, tion, rather rather than than by by receiving receiving a a sha shar re e of of the the results results o of f trading.
The The Gro Grou up ps s Merge Merger r acco account untiin ng g for for the the 1995 1995 me merg rger er of of the the eco econ nomic omic int inte erests rests o of f Rio Rio T Tiin nto to plc plc and and R Riio o T Tiint nto o Limi Limited i ted in nto the to the dual l dual liisted com sted compan paniies es DL DLC C st struct ructure ure proportiona proportionat te e int inte er rest est in in th the e assets, assets, liabilities, liabilities, revenues, revenues, exp expe enses nses and and cash cash flows flows of of JCA JCAs s are are incorp incorporated orated into into the the Grou Group ps s f fiinancial financial statem statemen ents ts under under see see Dua Duall lliisted sted co companies mpanies s st tructure ructure.. the the ap appropriate propriate h he eadings.
Review Review of of a asset sset ca carrying rrying va value lues s, impairment impairment charges charges a an nd d reversals reversals and and t th he e recove recoverab rabiilliity ty o of f go goodwill odwill note note 1 e 1 e and and i i, , note note 6 6 and and no note te 12.
Associates: Associates: An An as associate sociate is is an an entit entity y, that that is is neit neither her a a subsidiary subsidiary nor nor a a joint joint venture, venture, ov over er wh which ich the the Group Group has has significant significant infl influence.
S Significant ignificant influence influence is is presum presumed ed to to ex exist ist where where the the Gro Grou up p has has b be etw tween een 2 20 0 per per cent cent an and d 50 50 per per c ce ent nt of of the the vo voting ting rights, rights, but but ca can n also also arise arise where where the the Group Group h ho olds lds lle ess ss than than Estimat Estimatiion on of of asset asset lives lives note note 1 e 1 e a an nd d i. i.
20 20 per per cent cent if if it it ha has s the the pow power er t to o par part ticipate icipate in in the the fi fina financial ncial and and o op peratin erating g policy policy d fide ecisions cisions affecting affecting th the e enti entity.
Determinat Determination ion of of o or re e rese reserve rve est estiimate mates s note note 1 1 j j.. Investmen Investment ts s in in as associates sociates are are ac acco counted unted for for using using th the e e eq quity uity me meth thod od o of f accounting.
Und Unde er r this this m me etho thod d of of accounting accounting the the in invest vestme men nt i t is s r rec ecor orded ded Close Close down, down, re restoration storation and and c cllean ean up up obligatio obligation ns s note note 1 k. 1 k. initially initially at at cost cost to to the the Gr Group, oup, including including an any y goodwill goodwill o on n acquisition.
In In subsequent subsequent perio period ds s the the carry carrying ing amount amount of of the the inves invest tm men ent t i is s a adj dju us ste ted t d to r o ref eflle ec ct t the the Gr Group oups s share share of of th the e asso associates ciates retained retained pos post-ac t-acq qu uisition isition profit profit or or loss loss and and other other com comp prehensive rehensive incom income e..
Defer Deferr ral al o of f str striipp ppin ing g costs costs note note 1 1 h h..
The The Group Group uses uses t th he e ter term m E Equity quity a accounte ccounted d units units t to o refer refer to to as associat sociates es and and jointly jointly co con nt trolled rolled entities entities col collectively.
For For all all e equity quity acc accounted ounted u un nits its the the Recognit Recognitio ion n of of defe deferred rred ta tax x on on m miine neral ral ri right ghts s reco recogn gnised ised iin n acqu acquis isit itions ions no note te 1 m 1 m.. carrying carrying value value will will include include any any long long term term fide debt bt int inte erest rests s that that in in subs substanc tance e for form m part part of of the the Group Groups s net net invest investment.
Recoverab Recoverabiilit lity y of of p po otentia tential l deferred deferred ta tax x assets assets note note 19 19 d d and and e e.. Where Where ne necessary cessary, adjustmen adjustment ts s are are mad made e t to o th the e resul result ts s of of subsidiaries, subsidiaries, joint joint ventures ventures an and d associat associates es t to o brin bring g their their accounting accounting p polici olicies es into into line line with with Capita Capitalisatio lisation n o of f e ex xplorat ploration ion a an nd d eva evalluation uation co costs sts note note 1 f 1 f.. those those us used ed by by the the Group.
Ident Identiif fiicat catiion on o of f functiona functionall currenc currenciies es note 1 d note 1 d.. A Ac cqu quisit isitions ions The The acquisition acquisition meth method od of of ac accoun counting ting is is used used for for acquisitions.
This This m me eans ans that that the the purchase purchase considerati consideratio on n is is alloca allocated ted to to the the identifiabl identifiable e as assets sets Basis Basis o of f con cons solid olidati atio on n note note 1 1 b b.. acquired acquired and and liabilities liabilities assumed assumed t th he e identifiable identifiable net net assets assets on on the the b ba asis sis of of fair fair value value a at t the the dat date e of of acqui acquisition sition which which is is the the dat date e on on which which co control ntrol Acqu Acquisit isitio ions ns note note 1 b.
Pr Provisional ovisional fair fair values values al allocat locate ed d a at t a a re repor porting ting da date te are are finalised finalised within within 12 12 m mo ont nths hs of of th the e ac acquisition quisition date.
Post ret Post retiirement co rement cost ass st assu um mptions note 1 n ptions note 1 n.. Costs Costs related related to to the the acquisition acquisition of of a a su subsidiary bsidiary are are ex expensed pensed as as incurred.
Key Key sources sources of of es est tiimation mation uncertain uncertainty ty that that have have a a sig sign nificant ificant ri risk sk of of ca causing using a a m material aterial a ad djustm justme ent nt to to the the carrying carrying am amounts ounts of of assets assets and and liabilities liabilities O On n an an acquisition acquisition by by acquisition acquisition basis, basis, th the e G Gr roup oup recognises recognises any any nonnon-co controlling ntrolling interest interest in in the the ac acquiree quiree ei either ther at at the the non non- -co con ntrolling trolling interest interests s within within the the next next financial financial y ye ear ar are: are: proportiona proportionat te e sha shar re e of of the the ac acquiree quirees s identifiable identifiable net net assets assets or or at at f fa air ir value.
Go Goodwill odwill s see ee note note e e and and a am mounts ounts attributa attributab blle e to to n no onn-con cont trolling rolling interests interests will will be be higher higher when when the the lat latt ter er is is used.
Review Review of of a asset sset ca carrying rrying va value lues s, impairment impairment charges charges a an nd d reversals reversals and and t th he e recove recoverab rabiilliity ty o of f go goodwill odwill 1 e 1 e a an nd d ii, , note note 6 6 a an nd d n note ote 12.
Where Where the the Group Group has has a a previously previously h he eld ld non non- -co contr ntro olling lling interest interest in in th the e a ac cquiree, quiree, this this is is rem reme easured asured to to fair fair v value alue at at the the a ac cquisi quisition tion date date with with an any y gain gain Estimat Estimatiion on of of c cllos ose e down, down, resto restor ratio ation n and and c clea lean n up up co costs sts and and the the t tiiming ming of of e ex xpendit penditur ure e note note 1 k and 1 k and note 27. note 27. or or loss loss being being rec reco ognised gnised in in the the inco income me stat statem ement.
Th The e cash cash c co ost st of of suc such h purchases purchases is is inc included luded in in th the e inves invest ting ing section section of of the the c cash ash flo flow w.. Estim Estimat atiion on of of li liabil abiliit ties ies fo for r post post reti retire rem me ent nt costs costs note note 47.
For For purchases purchases from from non non cont controlling rolling interests, interests, th the e diff difference erence bet betw we ee en n t th he e purchase purchase price price and and th the e relevan relevant t carrying carrying value value of of the the share share of of net net as assets sets Recoverab Recoverabiilit lity y of of p po otentia tential l deferred deferred ta tax x assets assets n note ote 19 19 d d and and e e.. acquired acquired is is rec reco ord rded ed in in e eq quity uity..
The The cash cash cos cost t of of such such purchases purchases is is inclu includ ded ed in in the the financing financing section section of of the the cash cash flow.
Conti Contin nge genc ncies ies no note te 33.
The The results results of of bus busiinesses nesses acquired acquired during during th the e y ye ear ar are are brought brought int into o the the consolida consolidat te ed d fi financial financial state statem men ents ts f fr rom om the the da date te on on w wh hic ich h control, control, joint joint control control or or significant significant influ influe ence nce com comm mences.
These These areas areas of of ju judgmen dgment t and and esti estima mation tion are are discu discus ssed sed further further in in criti critic cal al acc acco ounting unting po policies licies and and es estima timat te es.
s. Disposals Disposals a a Accounting Accounting convention convention Individual Individual nonnon-current current assets assets or or dis disposal posal groups groups ie ie groups groups of of ass asse ets ts a an nd d liabilities liabilities to to be be di disposed sposed of, of, by by sa sale le or or otherwis otherwise e in in a a single single transac transact tion, ion, The The financial financial information information included included iin n the the financial financial sta stat tements ements f fo or r the the year year ended ended 31 31 Dec Dece ember mber 2011, 2011, and and f fo or r the the rel related ated c co ompara mparative tive p pe eriod, riod, has has been been are are classified classified as as h held eld for for s sa ale le if if th the e fo following llowing criteria criteria are are m me et t at at the the p pe eriod riod end: end: prepared prepared under under the the historical historical c co ost st c co onventi nvention, on, as as mo modified dified by by the the reval revalu uation ation of of c ce ert rtain ain derivative derivative contra contracts, cts, financial financial assets assets and and the the a accountin ccounting g for for pos post t the the car carr ry yiin ng g am amou ount nt wil will l be be recove recovere red d pri prin ncip cipall ally y th throu roug gh h a a sale sale t tr ran ansact sactiio on n rat rath her er t th ha an n th thro roug ugh h cont contin inu uiin ng g use use:: a an nd d retirement retirement asse assets ts and and liabilities.
The The Group Groups s policy policy in in respec respect t of of thes these e it items ems is is set set out out in in t th he e notes notes b be elow.
the the dispo dispos sal al gro grou up p is is av available ailable fo for r immedi immediate ate sale sale in in its its present present co condit nditio ion n s su ubject bject o on nlly y to term to terms s that a that ar re usual a e usual an nd customary d customary fo for r s su uch ch sale sales: s: and and b b Basis Basis of of c co onsoli nsolid dation ation the the sale sale is is hig high hly ly p pr robable obable..
The The financial financial stat statem ements ents c co onsist nsist of of the the c co onsolida nsolidat tion ion of of th the e ac acc cou oun nts ts o of f Ri Rio T o Tiin nto to pl plc c a an nd d Ri Rio T o Tiin nto to L Liim miit ted ed tog toge eth ther er th the C e Co om mpanies panies and and their their respec respective tive subsidi subsidia aries ries the the Gr Group oup toge toget ther her with with th the e Grou Group ps s sh share are of of joint joint ventures ventures an and d asso associates ciates a acco ccounted unted for for as as d fide escr scriib bed ed belo below.
w. Disposal Disposal groups groups held held f fo or r sale sale are are ca carried rried at at the the lo lower wer of of th their eir carr carry ying ing amount amount an and d fair fair va value lue less less c cos ost ts s t to o s se elll.
l. Co Comparative mparative s sta tate tem men ent t of of f fiin na an nc ciia all position position inform informa at tion ion is is not not r re estated.
Disposal Disposal grou groups ps acquired acquired with with a a vi view ew t to o resal resale e are are held held a at t fair fair value value d fide eter term mined ined a at t the the a acquisi cquisition tion dat date e.. All All intragroup intragroup tra tran nsactions sactions and and balances balances ha have five be been en eliminated eliminated on on con cons solidation.
For For thes these e ass asse ets ts a ac cquired quired for for r re esale sale no no profits profits or or loss losse es s are are rec reco ognised gnised betw between een the the a ac cqu quisition isition date date an and d th the e disp disposal osal date, date, u unless nless there there is is a a S Su ubsidiaries: bsidiaries: Subs Subsidiaries idiaries are are entitie entities s cont controll rolled ed by by th the e Co Companies.
Con Cont trol rol is is the the p po ower wer t to o gove govern rn the the financial financial and and o op perating erating poli policies cies of of those those entities entities in in subsequent subsequent impairm impairme ent.
order order t to o o obtain btain b be en nefits efits from from their their a ac ctiviti tivities.
Control Control is is presum presumed ed to to exi exis st t where where the the Co Com mp panies anies own own m mo ore re than than one one half half of of t th he e voting voting rights rights w which hich is is not not On On classification classification a as s held held f fo or r sale, sale, th the e asse assets ts are are no no llo onger nger depre deprec ciate iated.
d. alway always s the the s sa am me e as as m mo ore re than than 50 50 p pe er r cent cent ownership ownership unless unless it it can can be be fide demonstrat monstrated ed tha that t this this d do oes es n not ot co constitute nstitute c co ontrol.
C Co ontro ntrol l d do oes es not not ex exist ist where where other other parti partie es s hol hold d vet veto o rights rights over over s siignif gnificant icant operating operating and and financial financial fide decisions cisions of of an an entit entity y or or where where the the C Co ompanies mpanies hav have e th the e pow power er t to o gov gove ern rn an an entity entity The The results results of of bus busiinesses nesses disp dispose osed d of of are are ta tak ke en n out out o of f the the financial financial sta stat tem ements ents fro from m th the e date date on on which which c co on nt trol, rol, joint joint contr contro ol l o or r significant significant influ influe ence nce but but cannot cannot o obtain btain benefit benefit from from it its s a ac ctivities.
Control Control d do oes es exist exist wher where e a an nother other party party or or pa parties rties own own mor more e th than an one one half half of of th the e voting voting rights rights of of an an entity entity ceases.
The The cash cash proce procee eds ds of of such such disposal disposals s are are incl included uded in in th the e Invest Investin ing g section section of of the the cash cash flow.
A At t this this point point any any interest interest in in the the entity entity re retained tained by by but but the the Grou Group p can can control control thos those e vo voting ting rights rights either either th through rough a a contractu contractual al a arrangem rrangement ent or or through through board board control.
the the Gr Group oup is is re reme measured asured to to its its fair fair v va alue lue and and the the chan change ge in in carrying carrying am amount ount is is recognis recognise ed d in in the the inco incom me e st state atem ment.
This This f fair air va value lue is is the the initial initial carryi carrying ng am amount ount f fo or r any any retained retained interes interest t wh which ich m may ay be be subs subsequently equently accounted accounted fo for r as as an an as ass so ociate, ciate, jo joint int five venture nture or or financial financial asset asset depe depending nding on on the the facts.
Any Any amounts amounts prev previously iously recognised recognised in in other other co com mp prehensive rehensive inco income me in in respec respect t of of the the enti entity ty dispos disposed ed of of are are account accounted ed f fo or r as as if if th the e Gr Group oup had had d diirectly rectly dispose disposed d of of the the a appropriate ppropriate share share of of the the relat relate ed d ass asse ets ts or or liabilities.
Gains Gains or or los loss ses es on on disposals disposals t to o non non contro controlling lling interests interests where where con cont trol rol is is retained retained ar are e rec reco orded rded in in equity equity.. T Th he e cash cash pr proce ocee eds ds o of f such such disp disposals osals are are included included in in the the Fi Financing nancing section section of of the the ca cash sh flow.
138 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 139 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Joint ventures: A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
1 Principal accounting policies continued Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control such that significant operating and financial decisions require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
In some situations, joint control exists even though the Group has an ownership interest of more than 50 per cent because of Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty the veto rights held by joint venture partners.
The Group has two types of joint venture: Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgment and or estimation.
These judgments and estimates are based Jointly controlled entities JCEs : A JCE is a joint venture that involves the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity in which each on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to previous experience, but actual results may differ from the venturer has a long term interest.
JCEs are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgments and estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the Notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Jointly controlled assets JCAs : JCAs do not involve the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
A JCA is a joint venture in which the venturers have joint control over the assets contributed to or acquired for the purposes of the joint venture.
This includes situations where the Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: participants benefit from the joint activity through a share of the production, rather than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
The Groups Merger accounting for the 1995 merger of the economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited into the dual listed companies DLC structure proportionate interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of JCAs are incorporated into the Groups financial statements under see Dual listed companies structure.
Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill note 1 e and i, note 6 and note 12.
Associates: An associate is an entity, that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture, over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is presumed to exist where the Group has between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights, but can also arise where the Group holds less than Estimation of asset lives note 1 e and i.
20 per cent if it has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions affecting the entity.
Determination of ore reserve estimates note 1 j.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method of accounting the investment is recorded Close down, restoration and clean up obligations note 1 k. initially at cost to the Group, including any goodwill on acquisition.
In subsequent periods the carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the associates retained post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
Deferral of stripping costs note 1 h. The Group uses the term Equity accounted units to refer to associates and jointly controlled entities collectively.
For all equity accounted units the Recognition of deferred tax on mineral rights recognised in acquisitions note 1 m. carrying value will include any long term debt interests that in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 19 d and e. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f. those used by the Group.
Identification of functional currencies note 1 d. Acquisitions The acquisition method of accounting is used for acquisitions.
This means that the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets Basis of consolidation note 1 b. acquired and liabilities assumed the identifiable net assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition which is the date on which control Acquisitions note 1 b. is obtained.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Post retirement cost assumptions note 1 n. Costs related to the acquisition of a subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at the non-controlling interests within the next financial year are: proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets or at fair value.
Goodwill see note e and amounts attributable to non-controlling interests will be higher when the latter is used.
Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill 1 e and i, note 6 and note 12.
Where the Group has a previously held non-controlling interest in the acquiree, this is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date with any gain Estimation of close down, restoration and clean up costs and the timing of expenditure note 1 k and note 27. or loss being recognised in the income statement.
The cash cost of such purchases is included in the investing section of the cash flow.
Estimation of liabilities for post retirement costs note 47.
For purchases from non controlling interests, the difference between the purchase price and the relevant carrying value of the share of net assets Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 19 d and e. acquired is recorded in equity.
The cash cost of such purchases is included in the financing section of the cash flow.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are brought into the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant influence commences.
These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further in critical accounting policies and estimates.
Disposals a Accounting convention Individual non-current assets or disposal groups ie groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise in a single transaction, The financial information included in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011, and for the related comparative period, has been are classified as held for sale if the following criteria are met at the period end: prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative contracts, financial assets and the accounting for post the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use: and retirement assets and liabilities.
The Groups policy in respect of these items is set out in the notes below.
the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for such sales: and b Basis of consolidation the sale is highly probable.
The financial statements consist of the consolidation of the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together the Companies and their respective subsidiaries the Group together with the Groups share of joint ventures and associates accounted for as described below.
Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Comparative statement of financial position information is not restated.
Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at fair value determined at the acquisition date.
All intragroup transactions and balances have been eliminated on consolidation.
For these assets acquired for resale no profits or losses are recognised between the acquisition date and the disposal date, unless there is a Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Companies.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of those entities in subsequent impairment.
order to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to exist where the Companies own more than one half of the voting rights which is not On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated.
always the same as more than 50 per cent ownership unless it can be demonstrated that this does not constitute control.
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights over significant operating and financial decisions of an entity or where the Companies have the power to govern an entity The results of businesses disposed of are taken out of the financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant influence but cannot obtain benefit from its activities.
Control does exist where another party or parties own more than one half of the voting rights of an entity ceases.
The cash proceeds of such disposals are included in the Investing section of the cash flow.
At this point any interest in the entity retained by but the Group can control those voting rights either through a contractual arrangement or through board control.
the Group is remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is recognised in the income statement.
This fair value is the initial carrying amount for any retained interest which may be subsequently accounted for as an associate, joint venture or financial asset depending on the facts.
Any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the entity disposed of are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the appropriate share of the related assets or liabilities.
Gains or losses on disposals to non controlling interests where control is retained are recorded in equity.
The cash proceeds of such disposals are included in the Financing section of the cash flow.
com 139 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued e e Goodwill Goodwill a an nd d intangi intangib ble le assets assets excluding excluding explorati exploratio on n and and evaluation evaluation expendi expendit ture ure 1 1 Principal ac Principal accounting policies continued counting policies continued Where Where t the he fair fair val valu ue e of of c consideratio onsideration n pai paid d for for a a busin busine ess ss c co om mb bin ination ation e ex xc ce eeds eds the the fair fair v val alu ue e of of the the Group Groups s shar share e of of id iden entifiab tifiable le net net asse assets ts ac acquired, quired, the the differenc difference e is is t tr reated eated as as purchas purchase ed d go goodwill.
Whe When n the the fair fair valu value e of of the the Gr Group oups s share share of of id identi entifiable fiable ne net t assets assets acquired acquired e ex xc ceeds eeds th the e c cos ost of t of c c Sales Sales reve revenue nue consideration, consideration, the the di difference fference is is im imm me ediately diately re recognise cognised d in in the the inco incom me e st state atem ment.
Sales Sales revenue revenue co comprises mprises sa sales les to to t th hird ird parties at parties at invoiced invoiced a am mounts.
Most Most sal sale es s are are price priced d ex ex works, works, fre free e o on n board board f fob ob or or c co ost st, insurance insurance and and freight freight cif.
Amounts Amounts bill billed ed t to o cus cust to om mers ers iin n respec respect t of of shipp shippiing ng and and handling handling are are classed classed as as sales sales re revenue venue where where the the Gr Group oup is is res resp ponsi onsible ble for for carriage, carriage, In In 1997 1997 and and previous previous years, years, goodwill goodwill was was elim eliminated inated against against reserves reserves iin n the the year year of ac of acquisition quisition as as a a matter matter of of ac accounting counting pol polic icy y, as as was was then then p pe ermitt rmitte ed d insurance insurance and and freight.
All All shippi shipping ng and and handl handling ing costs costs incu incurred rred by by the the Group Group are are recognised recognised as as op operating erating costs.
If If the the G Gr rou oup p is is actin acting g solely solely as as an an under under UK UK GAAP.
S Su uch ch good goodwill will was was not not rein reinstate stated d un under der subs subsequen equent t U UK K accounting accounting stan standards dards or or on on transi transition tion to to IFR IFRS S.. agent, agent, am amounts ounts bi billed lled to to custo custom mers ers are are offse offset t against against the the relev releva ant nt costs costs.. Revenue Revenue from from se services rvices is is recognis recognised ed as as services services are are r rendere endered d and and acc acce ept pted ed G Go oodwill odwill is is not not a am mortised: ortised: it it is is tested tested annually annually for for iim mpairm pairme ent.
Investments Investments in in equity equity a ac ccounted counted units units EA EAU Us s including including any any goo goodw dwiillll a ar re t e tes est te ed f d for or by by the the cus cust to om mer.
impair impairment ment as as a a s siingle ngle asset asset when when a a trigge trigger r for for im impairment pairment has has be been en id identified.
The The Gr Grou oup ps s impairm impairme ent nt po policy licy is is explained explained iin n n note ote 1 1 i. i.
S Sales ales revenue revenue excludes excludes any any applic applica ab ble le sal sale es s t ta axes.
Mining Mining roy roya alties lties are are present presente ed d as as an an o op perating erating cos cost t or or, where where they they are are in in su substance bstance a a profit profit base based d Purchased Purchased intangible intangible assets assets are are initially initially re recorded corded a at t cost.
Finite Finite life life intangible intangible assets assets are are amorti amortise sed d o ov ver er th their eir useful useful ec econo onomic mic lives lives on on a a straight straight line line tax, tax, within within taxes.
or or units units of of produc product tion ion basis, basis, as as a appr ppropriate opriate.. Intangible Intangible assets assets that that are are d fide ee em med ed to to ha have five in indefinite definite lives lives and and iin ntangible tangible asse assets ts t th hat at are are no not t yet yet re ready ady for for Revenues Revenues fro from m th the e sale sale of of significant significant by by pr pro od ducts ucts such such as as gol gold d, are are inc included luded in in sal sale es s rev reve enue.
S Sundry undry revenue revenue i in nc ciiden denta tall t to t o th he e m main ain rev reve enue nue use use are are not not a am mortised: ortised: they they are are r re eviewed viewed annually annually for for im impairment pairment in in accordance accordance with with account accounting ing policy policy note note 1 i.
1 i. generating generating activities activities of of the the op operatio erations ns an and d which which is is a a consequen consequenc ce e of of p pr roducing oducing and and se selli lling ng the the main main prod products ucts is is trea treated ted as as a a c credit redit to to op operati eratin ng g costs.
The The Group Group consid considers ers that that intangible intangible assets assets have have ind inde ef fiinite nite lives lives when, when, b ba ased sed on on an an an analy alys sis is of of all all of of th the e refile relevant vant fact facto ors, rs, the there re is is no no fores foreseea eeable ble llim imiit t Third Third party party co comm mmodity odity swa swap p arrangem arrangements ents fo for r deliver delivery y and and receip receipt t of of s sm mel elter ter grade grade al alu um mina ina are are off offs set et wi within thin operating operating c co os st ts.
s. to to th the e p pe eriod riod over over which which the the as asset set is is exp expe ecte cted d to to g ge enerate nerate cash cash flo flow ws s f fo or r the the Group.
The The factors factors co consider nsidered ed in in m ma ak kiing ng thi this s dete deter rm mination ination include include the the existence existence of of contr contra actual ctual rights rights for for u un nlimited limited ter term ms: s: or or evidenc evidence e tha that t ren rene ewal wal of of the the con cont tractua ractual l rights rights witho withou ut t significant significant inc incr re emental mental cost cost can can be be A A large large pro proportion portion of of Group Group pr production oduction is is sold sold under under m me edium dium to to long long term term contracts.
expec expect ted ed for for ind inde ef fiinite nite periods periods into into t th he e fut future ure in in view view of of the the Group Groups s fu fut ture ure investm investme ent nt in intentions.
The The life life cy cycles cles of of the the pro prod du ucts cts and and proc processe esses s that that S Sales ales revenue revenue is is only only recognised recognised on on individual individual sa sales les w wh hen en all all of of the the f fo ollo llowing wing criteria criteria are are met: met: dep depe end nd on on the the as asset set are are also also consi consid dered.
the the si sign gnif ifica ican nt t ri risk sks s and and rew rewards ards o of f ow owners nersh hiip p of of the the p pr rod oduct uct ha have five been been t tr ransferred ansferred to to the the b bu uy ye er: r: f f Exploration Exploration and and evaluat evaluation ion neit neither her co conti ntin nui uing ng m manage anageri rial al invo involve lvem ment ent to to the the degree degree usu usuall ally y as associ sociated ated with with ow owner nersh shiip, p, no nor r effect effective ive co control ntrol o ov ver er the the goods goods sold sold, has has been been reta retained ined: : Exploration Exploration an and d evaluation evaluation expendi expendit ture ure com comp prise rises s co costs sts that that are are directl directly y attributabl attributable e t to o:: the the am amount ount o of f reve revenue nue ca can n be be m me easu asur re ed d reli reliabl ably y: : resea resear rch chin ing g a an nd d an analys alysiin ng g e ex xist istiing ng ex explorat ploration ion dat data: a: it it is is probab probable le that that t th he e economic economic be benef nefiits ts as associ sociated ated wit with h the the sale sale w wiill ll fl flow to ow to the Group the Group:: a an nd d conduct conductiin ng g geolo geolog giical cal stud studies ies, ex exp pllora orat tory ory d dr rill illiing ng and and sa sampling: mpling: the the costs costs inc incu urred rred or or to to be be incurred incurred in in respect respect of of t th he e sale sale can can be be measured measured reliabl reliably y.. examining examining a an nd d test testing ing ext extr ract actiion on a an nd d t tr reatment eatment methods methods:: and or and or These These c co onditions nditions are are generally generally sati satisfied sfied when when title title p pa asses sses t to o th the e cust custo om mer.
In In m mo ost st insta instan nces ces sales sales revenu revenue e is is rec reco ognised gnised w wh hen en the the product product is is delivere delivered d com comp pili ilin ng g p pr ree-feas feasiib bil ility ity a an nd d fe feasib asibil ilit ity y studie studies.
s. to to th the e d fide estination stination specified specified by by the the c cu ustom stomer, er, which which is is ty typically pically th the e v five ess ssel el on on which which it it will will be be shipp shippe ed, d, th the e d fide estination stination p po ort rt o or r the the cust custom omer ers s pr premises.
Exploration Exploration expen expend diture iture relates relates to to the the initial initial search search f fo or r deposits deposits with with econom economic ic p potential otential..
Evaluation Evaluation exp expe en nditure diture arises arises fro from m a a fide detailed tailed asse assessment ssment Sales Sales revenue revenue is is c co om mm monly only subje subjec ct t to to a ad djustme justmen nt t bas base ed d on on an an inspec inspection tion of of the the pr product oduct by by the the cus cust to om mer er.. IIn n such such cases, cases, sal sale es s rev revenue enue is is initially initially of of d fide eposits posits or or oth other er projec projects ts tha that t h ha ave five b been een id identified entified as as having having ec econo onom mic ic p poten otent tial.
Exp Expe enditure nditure on on expl explo or ration ation activity activity is is n no ot t ca capitalised.
recognised recognised on on a a p pr rovisional ovisional basis basis u us sing ing the the Group Groups s best best esti estimate mate of of c co ontained ntained me metal, tal, a an nd d adjuste adjusted d subs subse eq quently uently.. Capitalisation Capitalisation of of e ev valuati aluation on exp expe en ndi dit ture ure co com mm menc ence es s when when there there is is a a hi high gh degr degree ee of of c co onfidence nfidence in in the the pr proje ojec ct ts s viability viability and and t th he erefore refore it it is is probable probable Certain Certain produc product ts s are are p provisionally rovisionally priced, priced, ie ie the the s se ell lling ing price price is is subjec subject t to to final final adjust adjustme ment nt at at the the en end d of of a a period period nor norm mall ally y r ra anging nging from from 30 30 to to 180 180 days days that that futu future re econo econom mic ic b be enefi nefits ts will will fl flow ow t to o th the e Group.
after after d fide elivery livery to to t th he e custo custom mer.
The The final final pr price ice is is bas base ed d on on the the mark market et p pr rice ice at at th the e re relevant levant quotation quotation point point stipulated stipulated in in the the contract.
The The carry carrying ing values values of of capitalise capitalised d e evaluation valuation exp expe endi ndit ture ure are are revie review wed ed twice twice a a y ye ear ar by by m ma anagement.
In In th the e cas case e of of undevel undevelope oped d m mining ining projects, projects, there there As As is is custom customary ary in in the the industry, industry, revenue revenue on on provisionally provisionally priced priced sales sales is is recognised recognised bas base ed d on on esti estimat mate es s o of f the the fair fair value value of of th the e consideration consideration receivable receivable m may ay be be only only inferred inferred res reso ources urces to to f fo orm rm a a basi basis s for for that that imp impa airment irment r re eview.
The The revie review w is is based based on on a a status status report report su sum mm marising arising t the he G Gr roups oups intentions intentions based based on on relevant relevant forward forward m market arket p pr rices.
At At each each rep repo orting rting date date provisi provisio onally nally priced priced m me et ta al l is is mar mark ked ed to to m ma arket rket base based d on on th the e for forward ward selling selling price price for for the the for for dev deve elo lopm pment.
In In som some e cas case es, s, the the undevel undevelope oped d projects projects ar are e rega regarde rded d as as success successors ors t to o orebo orebod dies, ies, s sm melters elters or or refineries refineries cu curren rrently tly in in producti productio on.
n. quotational quotational perio period d stipulate stipulated d in in the the contra contract.
ct. F Fo or r this this purpose, purpose, th the e sel selling ling price price ca can n be be m me ea asured sured reliab reliably ly f fo or r those those pro prod duct ucts, s, such such as as c copp opper, er, f fo or r w which hich Where Where this this is is the the case, case, it it is is intended intended th that at thes these e will will be be deve developed loped and and go go into into pr produ oduction ction when when the the current current source source of of ore ore is is ex exhausted hausted or or to to r re eplac place e the the there there exists exists an an ac active tive and and fre free ely ly tra trad ded ed co com mm modity odity m ma arket rket such such as as th the e London London M Me etals tals Ex Exchange change and and th the e v va alue lue of of produc product t so sold ld by by t the he Group Group is is directly directly reduced reduced output output which which results results wher where e existing existing s sm melt elte ers rs and and or or refineries refineries are are cl closed.
It It is is often often the the cas case e that that te technological chnological an and d oth other er impr improve ovem ments ents will will linked linked t to o the the for form m in in which which it it is is trad traded ed on on that that mar mark ket et.. allow allow success successo or r s sm melters elters and and or or ref refiineries neries to to m mo ore re th than an replace replace the the ca capacity pacity of of their their pre pred dece ecessors.
The The marking marking t to o m ma arket rket of of pr provisionally ovisionally priced priced sa sales les contracts contracts is is recorded recorded as as an an adjust adjustment ment t to o sale sales s reven revenu ue.
e. Information Information o on n pro provisionally visionally priced priced s sa ales les contracts contracts is is included included in in note note 31.
31. g g Pr Prope oper rty, ty, plant plant and and equ equipment ipment Property Property, plant plant and and e eq quipmen uipment t are are s st tate ated d at at cos cost t, as as d fide efined fined in in IAS IAS 1 16 6, lle ess ss accu accumula mulat te ed d depre deprec ciation iation and and a ac cc cu um mu ulla ate ted d im impa pairm irme en nt t lo losses.
T Th he e cos cost t Certain Certain of of the the Gro Grou up ps s product products, s, su suc ch h as as iron iron ore, ore, w we ere re previously previously s so old ld under under lo long ng term term contracts contracts a at t a a ben bench chm mark ark price.
D During uring 2010, 2010, pricing pricing for for the the of of pro prop perty erty, plant plant and and equip equipm ment ent includes includes the the estima estimated ted clos close e d do own wn an and d rest restoratio oration n c co ost sts s associat associated ed with with the the asse asset.
t. Onc Once e a an n und undevelo evelop pe ed d mining mining m majority ajority of of iron iron ore ore cust customers omers chan changed ged to to a a quarterly quarterly basis basis reflecting reflecting the the structural structural shift shift away away from from annual annual bench benchm mark ark pricing pricing.. Changes Changes to to pricing pricing project project has has b been een establishe established d as as co comm mmercially ercially viable, viable, expen expend diture iture o ot the her r than than that that on on la lan nd d, buildings, buildings, plant plant and and e eq quipm uipment ent is is cap capitalised italised under under mechanisms mechanisms have have continued continued in in s so ome me markets markets during during 2011 2011 and and subs substan tant tiall ially y all all iron iron ore ore s sa ales les are are r re eflec flected ted at at final final prices prices in in the the results results f fo or r the the period, period, Mining Mining propertie properties s and and lea leases ses tog together ether with with any any a am mount ount transferred transferred f fr rom om E Explora xploration tion and and evaluation.
based based on on th the e b be est st available available infor inform ma at tion ion at at the the p pe eriod riod end.
In In open open pit pit m miining ning operations, operations, it it is is n ne ecessa cessary ry t to o re remov move e ov overburden erburden and and other other was wast te e ma mater teriials als to to a access ccess ore ore from from which which miner minera als ls can can b be e ex extract tracte ed d econo econom mically ically..
The The proc process ess of of mining mining overburd overburden en and and wast waste e materials materials iis s referred referred to to as as stripping.
Duri During ng the the developm developmen ent t of of a a m miin ne e o or r pit, pit, be before fore d d Cu Curre rrency ncy translation translation production production co com mm me ences, nces, stripping stripping c co osts sts are are capita capitalise lised d as as part part of of the the invest investment ment in in c co ons nst truction ruction of of th the e mine mine or or pit pit and and are are su subsequently bsequently am amortised ortised The The functional functional cu currency rrency for for each each entity entity in in the the G Gr roup, oup, and and for for jointly jointly controlled controlled enti entities ties an and d associates, associates, is is th the e currency currency of of th the e primary primary econ economic omic over over the the life life of of th the e mine mine or or pit pit on on a a units units of of pr producti oductio on n basis.
environm environment ent in in which which that that entity entity operates.
For For m many any entities, entities, this this is is th the e currency currency of of the the country country in in which which they they are are loca located.
Tr Transactions ansactions den deno om miinated nated in in other other currencies currencies are are converted converted to to the the func functional tional cu currency rrency at at the the e exch xchange ange rate rate rulin ruling g a at t the the date date of of the the transaction transaction unless unless hedge hedge accounting accounting applies, applies, Costs Costs which which are are n ne ecessarily cessarily incurred incurred whilst com whilst comm miissi ssioning oning new new assets, assets, in in th the e period period before before they they are are ca capa pable ble of of operating operating in in the the m ma anner nner intended intended in in which which case case th the e contract contract ra rate te is is us used.
Monetary Monetary assets assets and and liabilities liabilities denom denomiinated nated in in for fore eign ign currencies currencies are are retranslated retranslated a at t y ye ear ar end end exchange exchange rates.
by by m managem anageme en nt t, are are capitali capitalised.
D fide evelopment velopment co cost sts s incurred incurred after after the the com comm mencem enceme en nt t of of prod production uction are are capitalised capitalised to to the the extent extent t they hey are are ex expect pected ed to to give give rise rise to to a a fu future ture ec econo onom mic ic b be en nefit.
Interest Interest on on borrowing borrowings s relat relate ed d to to cons construction truction or or fide dev five elo lopm pment ent p pr rojects ojects is is c ca apitalis pitalise ed d until until th the e p po oint int when when The The Group Groups s a acco ccounting unting policies policies for for derivative derivative financi financial al instrum instruments ents and and hedg hedge e accounting accounting are are explaine explained d iin n more more fide detail tail in in n note ote 1 p 1 p iii.
The The G Gr roups oups substantially substantially all all t th he e activities activities that that are are necess necessary ary to to mak make e th the e asse asset t re read ady y f for or i its ts i in nten tende ded u d us se a e ar re e c co om mpl plet ete.
e. financial financial statem statements ents are are pr presented esented in in US US dollars, dollars, as as that that currenc currency y mos most t reliably reliably reflects reflects the the gl global obal busines business s perfor perform mance ance of of th the e Gr Group oup as as a a wh whole.
O On n cons conso olidation, lidation, inco incom me e statem statement ent items items for for each each entity entity are are tr translated anslated from from the the func functional tional currency currency into into U US S dollars dollars at at avera averag ge e rates rates of of excha exchan nge ge where where the the averag average e ap approximat proximates es th the e rate rate at at the the date date of of transac transactions.
St State atem ment ent of of financial financial position position item items s are are translated translated into into US US dol dollars lars at at y ye ear ar end end exchange exchange rates.
Exchange Exchange differen differenc ces es arising arising on on the the translat translation ion of of the the net net ass asse ets ts of of entities entities with with f function unctional al currencies currencies other other than than the the U US S doll dollar ar are are recognise recognised d directly directly in in the the foreign foreign currency currency translatio translation n r re eserve.
Thes These e tra tran nslation slation differences differences are are sh show own n in in the the statement statement of of comprehensive comprehensive income income w with ith the the exce exception ption of of translation translation adjustm adjustme ents nts relating relating to to Rio Rio Ti Tinto nto Limite Limited ds s share share capit capita al l wh whiic ch h a ar re s e sh how own n i in n t th he G e Gr rou oup p s sta tate tem me en nt of t of c ch ha an ng ges es i in n e equ quiity ty.. Where Where an an in intragro tragroup up balanc balance e iis, s, in in substanc substance, e, par part t of of the the Gr Group oups s net net invest investment ment in in an an en entity tity, exchange exchange gains gains and and loss losses es on on t th ha at t balanc balance e are are ta taken ken to to th the e fo foreign reign curr currency ency translation translation r re ese serve.
Exc Exce ep pt t as as noted noted abo abov five, e, or or in in note note p p be below low relating relating to to derivative derivative contracts, contracts, all all o oth ther er exchange exchange differences differences are are charged charged or or cr credite edited d t to o the the inco income me stat statem ement ent in in t th he e y ye ear ar in in which which t th hey ey arise.
140 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 141 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and evaluation expenditure 1 Principal accounting policies continued Where the fair value of consideration paid for a business combination exceeds the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
When the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the cost of c Sales revenue consideration, the difference is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties at invoiced amounts.
Most sales are priced ex works, free on board fob or cost, insurance and freight cif.
Amounts billed to customers in respect of shipping and handling are classed as sales revenue where the Group is responsible for carriage, In 1997 and previous years, goodwill was eliminated against reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of accounting policy, as was then permitted insurance and freight.
All shipping and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as operating costs.
If the Group is acting solely as an under UK GAAP.
Such goodwill was not reinstated under subsequent UK accounting standards or on transition to IFRS.
agent, amounts billed to customers are offset against the relevant costs.
Revenue from services is recognised as services are rendered and accepted Goodwill is not amortised: it is tested annually for impairment.
Investments in equity accounted units EAUs including any goodwill are tested for by the customer.
impairment as a single asset when a trigger for impairment has been identified.
The Groups impairment policy is explained in note 1 i.
Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining royalties are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in substance a profit based Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost.
Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line tax, within taxes.
or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives and intangible assets that are not yet ready for Revenues from the sale of significant by products such as gold, are included in sales revenue.
Sundry revenue incidental to the main revenue use are not amortised: they are reviewed annually for impairment in accordance with accounting policy note 1 i. generating activities of the operations and which is a consequence of producing and selling the main products is treated as a credit to operating costs.
The Group considers that intangible assets have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit Third party commodity swap arrangements for delivery and receipt of smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this determination include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be A large proportion of Group production is sold under medium to long term contracts.
expected for indefinite periods into the future in view of the Groups future investment intentions.
The life cycles of the products and processes that Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the following criteria are met: depend on the asset are also considered.
the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: f Exploration and evaluation neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, has been retained: Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly attributable to: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: researching and analysing existing exploration data: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or These conditions are generally satisfied when title passes to the customer.
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the customers premises.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential.
Evaluation expenditure arises from a detailed assessment Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, sales revenue is initially of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
Expenditure on exploration activity is not capitalised.
recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained metal, and adjusted subsequently.
Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high degree of confidence in the projects viability and therefore it is probable Certain products are provisionally priced, ie the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging from 30 to 180 days that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
after delivery to the customer.
The final price is based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are reviewed twice a year by management.
In the case of undeveloped mining projects, there As is customary in the industry, revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on estimates of the fair value of the consideration receivable may be only inferred resources to form a basis for that impairment review.
The review is based on a status report summarising the Groups intentions based on relevant forward market prices.
At each reporting date provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the forward selling price for the for development.
In some cases, the undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production.
quotational period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those products, such as copper, for which Where this is the case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into production when the current source of ore is exhausted or to replace the there exists an active and freely traded commodity market such as the London Metals Exchange and the value of product sold by the Group is directly reduced output which results where existing smelters and or refineries are closed.
It is often the case that technological and other improvements will linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
allow successor smelters and or refineries to more than replace the capacity of their predecessors.
The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
Information on provisionally priced sales contracts is included in note 31. g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost Certain of the Groups products, such as iron ore, were previously sold under long term contracts at a benchmark price.
During 2010, pricing for the of property, plant and equipment includes the estimated close down and restoration costs associated with the asset.
Once an undeveloped mining majority of iron ore customers changed to a quarterly basis reflecting the structural shift away from annual benchmark pricing.
Changes to pricing project has been established as commercially viable, expenditure other than that on land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised under mechanisms have continued in some markets during 2011 and substantially all iron ore sales are reflected at final prices in the results for the period, Mining properties and leases together with any amount transferred from Exploration and evaluation.
based on the best available information at the period end.
In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be extracted economically.
The process of mining overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
During the development of a mine or pit, before d Currency translation production commences, stripping costs are capitalised as part of the investment in construction of the mine or pit and are subsequently amortised The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for jointly controlled entities and associates, is the currency of the primary economic over the life of the mine or pit on a units of production basis.
environment in which that entity operates.
For many entities, this is the currency of the country in which they are located.
Transactions denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction unless hedge accounting applies, Costs which are necessarily incurred whilst commissioning new assets, in the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended in which case the contract rate is used.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
Development costs incurred after the commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
Interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects is capitalised until the point when The Groups accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting are explained in more detail in note 1 p iii.
The Groups substantially all the activities that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use are complete.
financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that currency most reliably reflects the global business performance of the Group as a whole.
On consolidation, income statement items for each entity are translated from the functional currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange where the average approximates the rate at the date of transactions.
Statement of financial position items are translated into US dollars at year end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar are recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve.
These translation differences are shown in the statement of comprehensive income with the exception of translation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limiteds share capital which are shown in the Group statement of changes in equity.
Where an intragroup balance is, in substance, part of the Groups net investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Except as noted above, or in note p below relating to derivative contracts, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
com 141 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued S St trai raig ght ht li line ne bas basiis s 1 1 Principal ac Principal accounting policies continued counting policies continued Assets Assets within within ope operations rations for for which which production production is is not not expec expect ted ed t to o fluctu fluctuate ate significantl significantly y from from one one y ye ear ar to to another another or or which which have have a a physical physical life life s sh horter orter than than the the rela relate ted d mine mine are are fide deprecia preciated ted on on a a s st traight raight line line basis.
h h Deferre Deferred d stripping stripping Develo Developm pment ent cost costs s that that rela relate te to to a a discrete discrete sec sect tion ion o of f an an oreb orebody ody, and and which which only only provid provide e b be enefi nefit t ov over er the the life life of of th those ose r re eser serv ves es, a ar re d e depr epre ec ciia at ted ed Where Where a a mine mine op ope er rates ates sev seve eral ral o op pe en n pits pits th that at are are reg rega arded rded as as se separate parate op operations erations fo for r the the purpos purpose e of of m miine ne planning, planning, stripping stripping co costs sts are are ac accou coun nted ted f fo or r over over the the es estim timated ated life life of of that that discr discre ete te secti sectio on.
n. Developm Development ent costs costs in incurred curred which which ben bene ef fiit t the the entire entire orebody orebody are are deprecia depreciated ted o ov five er r the the esti estimat mate ed d life life separately separately by by refe reference rence t to o the the ore ore from from each each s se eparat parate e pit.
If, If, ho howev weve er, r, t th he e pits pits are are highly highly inte integrated grated f fo or r the the purpose purpose of of mine mine planning, planning, the the second second and and of of the the oreb orebody ody.. subsequent subsequent pits pits a ar re e regarded regarded as as extensions extensions of of the the firs first t pit pit in in ac accounting counting for for stripping stripping c co ost sts.
s. In In such such cases, cases, t th he e initial initial strip stripping ping ie ie ov overb erburden urden a an nd d other other waste waste rem remo oval val of of the the s se econd cond and and s su ubsequent bsequent pits pits is is considered considered t to o b be e production production phas phase e stripping stripping relating relating to to th the e c co om mb bined ined o op perat eration.
Im Imp pa air irme ment nt of of n no on n-ccu urr rren ent t asse assets ts Property Property, plant plant and and e eq quipmen uipment t and and intangible intangible asse assets ts with with finite finite lives lives ar are e review reviewed ed f fo or r impairm impairme ent nt if if there there iis s any any indication indication t th hat at the the carrying carrying am amount ount The The Group Groups s det dete er rm mination ination of of wheth whethe er r multipl multiple e pit pit mines mines are are c co onsidere nsidered d se separate parate or or inte integrated grated o op perations erations dep depe ends nds on on each each mine mines s specific specific may may not not be be rec reco ov five erable.
All All g good oodwill will and and intangible intangible a assets ssets that that are are not not yet yet ready ready f fo or r use, use, or or ha have five an an in ind fide efinite finite life, life, a are re test tested ed annually annually f for or im impa paiir rm me ent nt circumstances.
T Th he e follo following wing facto factors rs would would point point to towards wards the the strippin stripping g costs costs for for th the e ind indiividual vidual pits pits b be eing ing accounte accounted d for for sep separa arately tely:: regardless regardless of of whether whether there there has has been been any any ch change ange in in events events or or circums circumst tances.
If If m miini ning ng o of f th the e sec seco ond nd and and s su ubseq bseque uent nt pits pits iis s co con nducte ducted d consec consecut utivel ively y w wiit th h that that o of f the the f fiirst first p piit, t, rathe rather r than than co conc ncurrentl urrently y.. Impairment Impairment is is ass asse essed ssed at at the the lle evel vel of of cash cash-ggenerati eneratin ng g units units whic which, h, in in accordanc accordance e w with ith IA IAS S 36 36 Imp Impairment airment of of Asse Assets, ts, are are id ide en nt tified ified as as th the e sm sma allest llest If If sepa separate rate investm investme ent nt decis decisiio on ns s a ar re e made made to to develop develop each each pit pit, ra rat th her er t th ha an n a a si single ngle iin nvestme vestment nt fide decis cisiio on n being being made made at at the the outse outset.
t. identifiable identifiable group group of of asse assets ts tha that t gen gene erate rates s cash cash inflow inflows, s, which which are are largel largely y independ independen ent t of of t th he e cash cash inflows inflows from from other other a assets.
If If t th he e pits pits are are ope oper ra at ted ed as as separate separate units units in in te term rms s of of m miine ne plan planni ning ng and and t th he e s se equenc quenciin ng g of of ov ove er rb bu ur rde den n a an nd o d or re m e miin niin ng g, r ra ath the er r th than an a as s an an integrated integrated unit unit..
In In some some case cases, s, th the e business business units units within within product product groups groups c co onsist nsist of of se several veral op operations erations w wiith th independ independent ent c ca ash sh generating generating str stre eams, ams, which which cons constitute titute separate separate cash-g cash-ge en nerating erating units.
If If expe expendit nditures ures fo for r additio addition na all inf infr rast astr ructure ucture to to s su upport pport t th he e second second and and subs subsequent equent pit pits s a ar re e rel rela ativel tively y lla arge.
G Go oodwill odwill a ac cquired quired through through business business com comb binat inations ions is is a allocat llocate ed d to to the the c ca ash-generating sh-generating uni unit, t, or or gr grou oups ps of of cas cash h-ggenera enerating ting units units if if that that is is the the llo ow we est st lle evel vel If If t th he e pits pits e ex xtract tract o or re e from from sepa separate rate a an nd d dist distinct inct orebod orebodies, ies, rathe rather r than than fr fro om m a a s siin ng glle o e or rebody ebody.. within within the the Grou Group p at at which which go goodwi odwill ll is is m mo onitored nitored f fo or r internal internal m management anagement purposes, purposes, tha that t are are ex expec pect ted ed to to b be enefit nefit fro from m th the e rel rela ated ted business business c co ombination.
If If the the d fide esigns signs of of t th he e sec seco ond nd and and su subseque bsequen nt t pits pits are are significantly significantly influenced influenced by by o op pp po ortunities rtunities to to opti optimise mise output output fro from m the the s se eve veral ral pits pits co com mb bined, ined, When When an an im impairm pairme ent nt review review is is unde under rtaken, taken, th the e recov recove erable rable a am mount ount is is a assesse ssessed d by by ref refe ere rence nce t to o the the h higher igher of of value value in in use use b being eing t the he net net pres prese en nt t value value of of includin including g the the coco-t treatment reatment or or blen blending ding of of the the output output f fr rom om the the pits pits then then this this would would point point t to o trea treatm tment ent as as an an integrated integrated op operat eratio ion n in in accounting accounting for for expected expected future future cash cash flows flows of of th the e r re elevant levant cashcash-g gen enerating erating unit unit in in its its current current condition condition and and fair fair va value lue les less s costs costs to to sell sell f fa aiir r value.
The The b be es st t evid evidence ence stripping stripping costs.
of of fair fair value value is is the the value value o obtained btained fr from om an an active active m ma arket rket or or binding binding sal sale e agree agreem ment.
Wh Where ere neither neither exists, exists, fair fair value value is is bas base ed d on on the the b be est st information information The The relative relative iim mp po ortance rtance of of ea each ch of of t th he e a abov bove e fac factors tors iis s considere considered d in in ea each ch case case to to fide deter term mine ine whether, whether, on on b ba alance, lance, the the s st trippi ripping ng costs costs sh should ould b be e available available t to o refl reflec ect t the the am amount ount the the Group Group co could uld r re ece ceiive five for for the the ca cash sh generating generating uni unit t in in an an arms arms length length transaction.
This This is is o of ften ten es estimat timate ed d using using attributed attributed to to the the individu individual al pit pit or or to to the the c co om mb bined ined out outp put ut fro from m se several veral pits.
discounted discounted cash cash fl flow ow t te echniques.
The The G Gr roup oup def defe ers rs stripping stripping costs costs incurred incurred d during uring the the production production stage stage of of its its operations operations, wh where ere this this is is th the e m mo ost st app appropriate ropriate bas basis is for for m ma atching tching the the cos cost ts s Where Where re recovera coverabl ble e a am mount ount is is ass asse es ss sed ed using using fair fair value value bas base ed d on on di disc scounted ounted cash cash flo flow w t te ec chniques, hniques, the the resul result ting ing estima estimates tes ar are e bas base ed d on on fide detaile tailed d against against the the rela relate ted d ec econo onom mic ic b be enef nefiits ts and and th the e eff effe ect ct is is ma material.
This This is is generally generally th the e c ca as se e where where there there are are fluctuations fluctuations in in st stripping ripping cost costs s ov over er t th he e life life of of life life of of mine mine and and or or pro prod duction uction pla plan ns.
s. Fo For r value value in in u us se, e, recent recent cos cost t le lev five els ls are are co considere nsidered d, together together with with ex expect pected ed changes changes in in costs costs that that are are c co ompa mpat tible ible the the mine mine or or pit.
The The am amount ount of of str striipping pping costs costs def defe erred rred is is bas base ed d on on th the e ratio ratio Ratio Ratio o obtained btained by by dividing dividing the the t to onnage nnage of of w waste aste mined mined eithe either r by by the the with with the the current current condit condition ion of of the the bu busi siness ness an and d which which m me eet et the the requi require rem ments ents of of IA IAS S 3 36.
6. quantity quantity of of or ore e mined mined or or by by the the qua quan ntity tity of of minerals minerals c co ontaine ntained d in in the the or ore. e. In In som some e o op perati eratio ons, ns, the the quantity quantity of of ore ore is is a a more more p pr ractical actical basis basis f fo or r matching matching The The cash cash flo flow w for fore ecasts casts for for fair fair val valu ue e purpos purposes es are are b ba ased sed on on mana manage gement ments s best best es estim tima ates tes of of ex expec pect ted ed f fu uture ture revenues revenues an and d cos cost ts, s, including including the the future future costs costs with with the the rel rela ated ted ec economic onomic b be en nefits efits wh where ere there there are are im important portant co co- -p pr roducts oducts or or wh where ere the the grad grade e of of the the ore ore is is relativ relative ely ly st stab able le fro from m ye year ar to to year.
cash cash cos cost ts s of of pro prod du uction, ction, capital capital exp expe enditure, nditure, closure, closure, restoratio restoration n and and environm environmental ental clea clean n up.
Fo For r the the purp purposes oses of of d fide eter term mining ining fair fair valu value e from from a a market market S St tripping ripping costs costs in incurred curred in in the the period period are are fide def fe erred rred to to the the extent extent that that th the e current current period period Ratio Ratio ex exceeds ceeds the the li life fe of of m miine ne or or pi pit t Ratio.
Su Such ch def defe erred rred c co osts sts participant participants s pers perspectiv pective, e, the the cash cash f flows lows incorp incorporate orate manage management ments s price price and and cos cost t assu assumpti mptions ons in in the the sh short ort and and me medium dium t te erm.
In In the the llo onger nger ter term m, are are then then charged charged agai against nst reported reported profits profits to to the the extent extent that, that, in in subsequent subsequent periods, periods, the the current current period period Ra Ratio tio falls falls short short of of th the e life life of of mine mine or or pit pit Ra Ratio.
operating operating m margins argins are are assu assum me ed d to to rem remain ain constant constant a as s it it is is cons consid idered ered unlikely unlikely that that a a ma market rket participant participant w wo ould uld pre prep pare are fide detailed tailed f fo orecasts recasts ov over er a a longer longer The The life life of of mine mine o or r pit pit Ratio Ratio is is bas base ed d on on prov proved ed an and d probabl probable e res rese erves rves of of th the e mine mine or or pit : pit : it it is is a a function function of of the the pit pit desi design s gn s and and ther therefore efore ch changes anges term term period.
Th The e cash cash flow flow foreca forecast sts s may may includ include e net net cash cash flo flow ws s ex expec pect ted ed t to o be be rea reallised ised f fr rom om ex extraction, traction, pr processing ocessing and and s sa ale le of of m miineral neral resour resources ces tha that t to to tha that t d fide esign sign will will generally generally result result iin n chan changes ges to to the the Ratio.
Changes Changes in in other other t te echnical chnical or or econ economic omic para param me eters ters that that im impac pact t on on reserves reserves will will also also do do not not currently currently qualify qualify for for inclusion inclusion in in prov proved ed or or pr probable obable ore ore r re eserves.
S Su uch ch nonnon-res rese er rv five e m ma aterial terial is is only only included included wh where ere the there re is is a a high high d fide eg gree ree of of have have an an impact impact o on n the the life life of of mine mine or or pi pit t Ratio Ratio even even if if they they d do o not not affe affect ct the the pit pit design s design s.. Changes Changes to to the the life life of of mine mine o or r pit pit Ratio Ratio are are ac accoun counted ted confidence confidence in in its its econom economic ic extra extrac ction.
This This expecta expectat tio ion n is is usually usually based based on on preli prelim minar inary y drilling drilling and and samplin sampling g of of areas areas of of mine miner ralisation alisation that that are are for for prosp prospe ectiv ctively ely.. contiguous contiguous with with existing existing reserves.
Typically Typically, the the additi additional onal evaluation evaluation to to achi achieve eve res rese erve rve s st tatus atus for for such such m ma aterial terial has has not not yet yet been been done done be becaus cause e this this would would involv involve e incurring incurring costs costs earlier earlier than than is is required required for for the the ef efficient ficient planning planning and and operation operation of of the the m miine.
In In the the production production stag stage e of of som some e m miines fines or or pits pits, , further further dev deve elop lopment ment of of the the m miin ne e or or pit pit requires requires a a phas phase e of of unusually unusually high high st stripping ripping activity activity t th hat at is is sim simiilar lar in in nature nature to to prepre-production production m miine ne development.
The The costs costs of of this this unusually unusually hig high h lev level el of of s st trippi ripping ng activity activity are are defer deferred red and and charge charged d against against As As noted noted above, above, cost cost levels levels inco incorporated rporated in in th the e cash cash f flow low f fo orecasts recasts for for f fa air ir va value lue purpos purposes es are are bas base ed d on on th the e current current lifelife-o of f- -m miine ne plan plan or or long long-terterm m reporte reported d pr profits ofits o on n a a units units of of produ production ction basis basis in in sub subs sequent equent peri period ods.
s. This This accounting accounting treat treatm ment ent is is consis consistent tent with with that that f fo or r pr pre-pr e-production oduction mi mine ne producti production on plan plan f fo or r the the c cas ashh-g gener enerating ating unit unit.. Becaus Because e future future cash cash flows flows are are es estim tima ates tes f fo or r the the asset asset in in its its current current condition, condition, v value alue in in use use d do oes es not not devel develo op pm ment.
D fide ef fe erred rred strip stripp ping ing co costs sts are are includ included ed iin n Mining Mining pr properties operties and and lle eases ases wit with hin in prope property rty, plan plant t and and equip equipm ment ent or or wi within thin Invest Investm ments ents reflect reflect fu future ture cas cash h flows flows ass asso ociat ciated ed with with im improving proving or or enhancin enhancing g an an asset assets s p pe erformanc rformance.
e. Antici Anticipated pated enhancem enhancements ents to to as assets sets are are included included in in fa fair ir in in equity equity account accounted ed units, units, as as a appr ppropriate.
A Am mortisat ortisatiion on of of d fide eferred ferred str striipping pping costs costs is is included included in in net net opera operat ting ing costs costs or or in in t th he e Grou Group ps s share share of of the the value value calcula calculat tions ions.. results results of of its its equity equity account accounte ed d units units, as as appro approp priate.
Where Where the the rec reco ove verable rable a am mount ount of of a a cash-gen cash-genera erat ting ing unit unit is is dep depe enden ndent t on on the the life life of of its its a associate ssociated d ore oreb bo od dy y, expec expect ted ed future future cash cash flows flows refle reflec ct t longlong-t ter erm m m miine ne plans, plans, which which are are ba based sed on on detailed detailed resear research, ch, analysis analysis and and iterative iterative modellin modelling g to to optim optimiise se th the e lev leve el l of of return return fr from om inves invest tm me ent, nt, o ou utput tput i i Depreciati Depreciation on and and impai impair rment ment and and sequ sequence ence of of extraction extraction..
The The m miine ne plan plan tak take es s account account of of all all relevant relevant char charact acte eristics ristics o of f the the orebo orebod dy y, including including waste waste to to or ore e ratios, ratios, ore ore grade grades, s, haul haul Depreciat Depreciati ion of on of n non-current as on-current assets sets distances, distances, che chem mic ical al and and met meta allurgical llurgical prop proper erties ties of of th the e ore ore impa impacting cting o on n process process rec reco ove veries ries and and capacitie capacities s of of proc processing essing equi equipm pment ent that that can can b be e used.
Property Property, plant plant and and e eq quipmen uipment t is is d fide ep preciate reciated d ov over er its its useful useful life, life, or or ov over er the the re remainin maining g life life of of the the mine mine if if that that is is shorter shorter an and d t th here ere is is no no al alterna ternative tive use use The The life-of life-of- -mine mine p plan lan is is theref therefore ore th the e basis basis f fo or r fore foreca cas st ting ing producti production on o ou utput tput in in each each futu future re year year and and f fo or r for fore ecasting casting pro prod ducti uction on cos cost ts.
s. for for the the ass asse et.
t. Forecast Forecast cash cash fl flo ow ws s for for ore ore res rese erve rve esti estimation mation for for Joi Join nt t Ore Ore Res Rese erves rves C Co om mm mitt ittee ee J JO OR RC C purposes purposes are are gen gene erally rally base based d on on Ri Rio o Tint Tinto os s price price for fore ecasts casts of of The The useful useful lives lives of of the the major major ass asse ets ts of of a a cash  ng g unit unit are are oft ofte en n dep depe endent ndent on on th the e life life of of the the oreb orebod ody y to to which which they they re rellate.
Wher Where e this this is is the the c ca ase, se, com comm modity odity prices prices, which which assume assume s sh hort ort ter term m ma mark rket et prices prices will will rev reve ert rt t to o the the Group Groups s as ass se essm ssment ent of of the the lo long ng term term price, price, ge generally nerally over over a a peri period od of of three three the the lives lives of of mining mining prop proper erties, ties, and and their their assoc associat iated ed r re efineri fineries, es, concent concentr rators ators and and other other llo ong ng lived lived proce processing ssing equipm equipment ent ge genera nerally lly relate relate to to t th he e exp expe ect cted ed to to five five y ye ears.
For For mos most t co com mm mo od ditie ities, s, these these f fo orecas recast t c co om mm mo od dity ity pr prices ices are are derive derived d fro from m a a co combination mbination of of a an naly alys ses es of of th the e ma marginal rginal costs costs of of the the produc produce ers rs life life of of th the e or orebody.
The The life life of of the the or oreb ebody, ody, in in turn, turn, is is estim estima ated ted on on the the basis basis of of the the lifelife-o of f- -m miine ne plan.
Wher Where e the the m major ajor asse asset ts s of of a a cash-gen cash-generating erating unit unit and and of of the the incenti incentiv five e price price of of these these c co om mm mo od dities.
Thes These e assess assessments ments of oft te en n differ differ fro from m cur curr rent ent price price lle evels vels a an nd d are are up update dated d pe perio riodically.
For For the the long long run, run, are are not not fide depend pendent ent on on the the life life of of a a relate related d ore oreb bo od dy y, m ma anagement nagement ap applie plies s judgment judgment in in est estiimating mating the the rem rema aining ining service service pot pote en ntial tial o of f long long li liv five ed d assets.
the the Gr Group oup d do oes es not not b be elieve lieve that that fo for rw ward ard prices prices quo quot te ed d in in the the me meta tals ls m ma arkets rkets provide provide a a g good ood indication indication of of f fu uture ture price price lle evels vels si since nce forw forward ard prices prices tend tend to to In In the the case case of of sm smelters, elters, fac factors tors aff affe ec cting ting the the re remaining maining service service p poten otent tial ial include include s sm mel elter ter technol technolo ogy gy and and e electricity lectricity contra contract cts s when when th the e p po ower wer is is not not be be s st trong rongly ly influenced influenced by by spot spot price price lev leve els.
R Rio io Tinto Tintos s p pri rice ce fore forecas casts ts of of co commo mmod diit ty y pric prices es include include an an el ele em ment ent of of carbon carbon prici pricing.
These These price price forecasts forecasts sourced sourced fro from m the the com comp pany anys s own own el electricity ectricity generatin generating g capacity capacity.. are are also also us used ed f fo or r iim mpairment pairment testin testing g unless unless man mana ag ge emen ment t fide deem ems s th that at iin n ce certain rtain econ economic omic environm environments, ents, a a m market arket participa participan nt t would would not not ass assign ign Rio Rio Depreciation Depreciation co com mm menc ence es s when when an an asset asset is is av availa ailable ble f fo or r use.
The The major major categories categories of of prop property erty, plant plant and and eq equipment uipment ar are e d fide epr preciate eciated d on on a a units units of of Tinto Tintos s view view on on pric prices, es, in in whic which h case case manage management ment bas base e the them m up upon on assu assumpti mptions ons which which a a marke market t p pa articipant rticipant woul would d b be e ex expec pect ted ed t to o use use under under t th hese ese production production and and or or straight straight line line basi basis s as as foll follows: ows: econom economic ic conditi conditio ons.
Units Units of of p pr roduct oductiion on basis basis In In some some case cases, s, prices prices a apply pplyiing ng to to s so ome me part part of of th the e fut future ure sa sales les v vo olum lume es s of of a a cash-gen cash-generat erating ing unit unit are are prede predet termined ermined by by existing existing sales sales c co ontracts ntracts.. For For mining mining prop proper erties ties and and lle eases ases an and d cert certai ain n m miining ning equipm equipment, ent, the the co consu nsum mption ption of of th the e econo econom mic ic benefit benefits s of of th the e ass asse et t is is li linked nked to to the the produ production ction lev leve el.
l. The The effec effect ts s of of suc such h contracts contracts are are ta taken ken into into acc acco ount unfit in in forecasting forecasting futu future re cash cash flo flow ws s.. Excep Except t as as n note oted d b be elow, low, th these ese a assets ssets are are d fide epreciat preciate ed d o on n a a units units of of produ production ction basis.
The The discount discount ra rate tes s applie applied d t to o th the e fu future ture cash cash fl flow ow f fo orecasts recasts repr repres esent ent an an estima estimate te of of the the rate rate the the m mark arket et would would a apply pply havin having g re regard gard to to the the ti time me value value of of In In apply applyiing ng the the units units of of pr production oduction meth method, od, depreciation depreciation is is norm normally ally ca calculated lculated using using the the quantity quantity of of ma mater teriial al extract extracte ed d fro from m t the he m miine ne in in the the period period as as money money an and d the the risks risks sp specific ecific t to o th the e asset asset f fo or r which which th the e future future ca cash sh flow flow esti estimates mates have have n not ot b been een a ad djusted.
The The Group Groups s weig weighted hted av average erage c co ost st of of ca capital pital a a percentage percentage of of th the e total total quantity quantity of of m material aterial to to be be ex extracted tracted in in current current an and d future future periods periods based based on on prov proved ed and and probable probable res rese er rves ves an and, d, f fo or r so some me mines, mines, is is used used as as a a starti starting ng point point for for det dete er rm mining ining the the discou discount nt rates, rates, with with a appr ppropriate opriate a ad djustm justme en nt ts s fo for r th the e risk risk prof profile ile of of th the e c co ountr untries ies in in which which the the indi individual vidual other other m miineral neral res reso ources.
These These oth other er m miineral neral res reso ources urces m may ay be be incl includ uded ed in in d fide eprecia preciation tion calculations calculations in in li limite mited d circums circumst tan ances ces an and d w wh he er re e t th here ere is is a a high high cashcash-g generating enerating u un nits its operate.
For For fi final final feas feasibility ibility studies studies and and or ore e reserv reserve e es estim tima ation tion, inter intern final al hurdle hurdle rates rates a ar re e used used which which a are re generally generally higher higher than than the the degree degree of of c co onfide nfiden nce ce in in their their ec econo onom mic ic ex extraction.
weighted weighted average average cost cost of of ca capital.
142 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 143 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Straight line basis 1 Principal accounting policies continued Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis.
h Deferred stripping Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an orebody, and which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves, are depreciated Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs are accounted for over the estimated life of that discrete section.
Development costs incurred which benefit the entire orebody are depreciated over the estimated life separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second and of the orebody.
subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping ie overburden and other waste removal of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping relating to the combined operation.
Impairment of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific may not be recoverable.
All goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use, or have an indefinite life, are tested annually for impairment circumstances.
The following factors would point towards the stripping costs for the individual pits being accounted for separately: regardless of whether there has been any change in events or circumstances.
If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted consecutively with that of the first pit, rather than concurrently.
Impairment is assessed at the level of cash-generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, are identified as the smallest If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows, which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets.
If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning and the sequencing of overburden and ore mining, rather than as an integrated unit.
In some cases, the business units within product groups consist of several operations with independent cash generating streams, which constitute separate cash-generating units.
If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and subsequent pits are relatively large.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units if that is the lowest level If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather than from a single orebody.
within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, that are expected to benefit from the related business combination.
If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly influenced by opportunities to optimise output from the several pits combined, When an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of including the co-treatment or blending of the output from the pits then this would point to treatment as an integrated operation in accounting for expected future cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit in its current condition and fair value less costs to sell fair value.
The best evidence stripping costs.
of fair value is the value obtained from an active market or binding sale agreement.
Where neither exists, fair value is based on the best information The relative importance of each of the above factors is considered in each case to determine whether, on balance, the stripping costs should be available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash generating unit in an arms length transaction.
This is often estimated using attributed to the individual pit or to the combined output from several pits.
The Group defers stripping costs incurred during the production stage of its operations, where this is the most appropriate basis for matching the costs Where recoverable amount is assessed using fair value based on discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on detailed against the related economic benefits and the effect is material.
This is generally the case where there are fluctuations in stripping costs over the life of life of mine and or production plans.
For value in use, recent cost levels are considered, together with expected changes in costs that are compatible the mine or pit.
The amount of stripping costs deferred is based on the ratio Ratio obtained by dividing the tonnage of waste mined either by the with the current condition of the business and which meet the requirements of IAS 36. quantity of ore mined or by the quantity of minerals contained in the ore.
In some operations, the quantity of ore is a more practical basis for matching The cash flow forecasts for fair value purposes are based on managements best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including the future costs with the related economic benefits where there are important co-products or where the grade of the ore is relatively stable from year to year.
cash costs of production, capital expenditure, closure, restoration and environmental clean up.
For the purposes of determining fair value from a market Stripping costs incurred in the period are deferred to the extent that the current period Ratio exceeds the life of mine or pit Ratio.
Such deferred costs participants perspective, the cash flows incorporate managements price and cost assumptions in the short and medium term.
In the longer term, are then charged against reported profits to the extent that, in subsequent periods, the current period Ratio falls short of the life of mine or pit Ratio.
operating margins are assumed to remain constant as it is considered unlikely that a market participant would prepare detailed forecasts over a longer The life of mine or pit Ratio is based on proved and probable reserves of the mine or pit : it is a function of the pit design s and therefore changes term period.
The cash flow forecasts may include net cash flows expected to be realised from extraction, processing and sale of mineral resources that to that design will generally result in changes to the Ratio.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on reserves will also do not currently qualify for inclusion in proved or probable ore reserves.
Such non-reserve material is only included where there is a high degree of have an impact on the life of mine or pit Ratio even if they do not affect the pit design s. Changes to the life of mine or pit Ratio are accounted confidence in its economic extraction.
This expectation is usually based on preliminary drilling and sampling of areas of mineralisation that are for prospectively.
Typically, the additional evaluation to achieve reserve status for such material has not yet been done because this would involve incurring costs earlier than is required for the efficient planning and operation of the mine.
In the production stage of some mines or pits, further development of the mine or pit requires a phase of unusually high stripping activity that is similar in nature to pre-production mine development.
The costs of this unusually high level of stripping activity are deferred and charged against As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for fair value purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long-term reported profits on a units of production basis in subsequent periods.
This accounting treatment is consistent with that for pre-production mine production plan for the cash-generating unit.
Because future cash flows are estimates for the asset in its current condition, value in use does not development.
Deferred stripping costs are included in Mining properties and leases within property, plant and equipment or within Investments reflect future cash flows associated with improving or enhancing an assets performance.
Anticipated enhancements to assets are included in fair in equity accounted units, as appropriate.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is included in net operating costs or in the Groups share of the value calculations.
results of its equity accounted units, as appropriate.
Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent on the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows reflect long-term mine plans, which are based on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the level of return from investment, output i Depreciation and impairment and sequence of extraction.
The mine plan takes account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody, including waste to ore ratios, ore grades, haul Depreciation of non-current assets distances, chemical and metallurgical properties of the ore impacting on process recoveries and capacities of processing equipment that can be used.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if that is shorter and there is no alternative use The life-of-mine plan is therefore the basis for forecasting production output in each future year and for forecasting production costs.
Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC purposes are generally based on Rio Tintos price forecasts of The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Where this is the case, commodity prices, which assume short term market prices will revert to the Groups assessment of the long term price, generally over a period of three the lives of mining properties, and their associated refineries, concentrators and other long lived processing equipment generally relate to the expected to five years.
For most commodities, these forecast commodity prices are derived from a combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers life of the orebody.
The life of the orebody, in turn, is estimated on the basis of the life-of-mine plan.
Where the major assets of a cash-generating unit and of the incentive price of these commodities.
These assessments often differ from current price levels and are updated periodically.
For the long run, are not dependent on the life of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the remaining service potential of long lived assets.
the Group does not believe that forward prices quoted in the metals markets provide a good indication of future price levels since forward prices tend to In the case of smelters, factors affecting the remaining service potential include smelter technology and electricity contracts when the power is not be strongly influenced by spot price levels.
Rio Tintos price forecasts of commodity prices include an element of carbon pricing.
These price forecasts sourced from the companys own electricity generating capacity.
are also used for impairment testing unless management deems that in certain economic environments, a market participant would not assign Rio Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of Tintos view on prices, in which case management base them upon assumptions which a market participant would be expected to use under these production and or straight line basis as follows: economic conditions.
Units of production basis In some cases, prices applying to some part of the future sales volumes of a cash-generating unit are predetermined by existing sales contracts.
For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, the consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to the production level.
The effects of such contracts are taken into account in forecasting future cash flows.
Except as noted below, these assets are depreciated on a units of production basis.
The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent an estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time value of In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of material extracted from the mine in the period as money and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital a percentage of the total quantity of material to be extracted in current and future periods based on proved and probable reserves and, for some mines, is used as a starting point for determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk profile of the countries in which the individual other mineral resources.
These other mineral resources may be included in depreciation calculations in limited circumstances and where there is a high cash-generating units operate.
For final feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, internal hurdle rates are used which are generally higher than the degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
weighted average cost of capital.
com 143 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued l l In Inventories ventories 1 1 Principal ac Principal accounting policies continued counting policies continued Inventories Inventories are are va valued lued at at the the low lowe er r of of cos cost t and and net net re realisable alisable va value, lue, prim primarily arily on on a a weight weighte ed d av average erage cost cost basis.
Average Average c co osts sts are are calculat calculated ed by by reference reference t to o th the e cos cost t lle evels vels exp expe er rienced ienced in in the the relevant relevant month month together together with with thos those e in in opening opening inventory.
Cost Cost f fo or r raw raw m materi aterials als and and st stores ores iis s i i Depreciati Depreciation on and and impai impair rment ment continued continued purchase purchase price price and and for for partly partly pro proc ces essed sed and and salea saleab ble le products products is is gener genera ally lly the the c co ost st of of production.
F Fo or r this this purpose purpose the the costs costs o of f pr production oduction include: include: For For operations operations with with a a functional functional cur curr rency ency other other than than t th he e US US dolla dollar, r, th the e iim mpairment pairment review review is is und undertaken ertaken in in the the relevant relevant functi functio onal final currency.
The The great great m ma ajority jority of of the the G Gr roups oups sales sales are are ba based sed on on prices prices den deno om miinated nated in in US US dollars.
To To the the extent extent that that the the curren currenc cies ies of of countries countries iin n which which the the Grou Group p pro prod duces uces labour labour costs costs, materials materials and and co cont ntractor ractor expenses expenses w wh hich ich a ar re e directl directly y att attr ributa ibutab ble le to to the the ext extr ract actiion on and and p pr rocess ocessiing ng o of f ore ore:: com comm modities odities s st tre rengthen ngthen against against th the e US US dol dolla lar r withou without t co com mm mo od dity ity price price offse offset t, cash cash flo flow ws s and, and, theref therefore, ore, ne net t pr present esent values values are are reduce reduced.
d. the the deprec depreciat iatiion on of of mining mining p pr roper opert tiies es a an nd l d lea eas se es s a an nd of d of p pr roper opert ty y, p plla an nt t a an nd d equ equiipm pment ent used used in in the the extracti extractio on n a an nd d process processiing of ng of or ore e:: a an nd d Managem Manageme ent nt con considers siders that that over over th the e long long te term rm, there there is is a a tendency tendency f fo or r m mo ov five ements ments in in co comm mmodity odity prices prices t to o co comp mpensate ensate to to s so om me e ext exte en nt t f fo or r movem moveme ents nts product productiion on ove overhe rheads.
in in the the value value of of th the e US US dollar dollar an and d vi vice ce versa.
H Ho owev weve er, r, such such compensa compensating ting changes changes are are not not sync synchronised hronised and and do do not not fully fully of offset fset each each other.
In In estimating estimating fair fair value, value, a a forec foreca ast st o of f the the long long ter term m exchange exchange rates, rates, for for the the Australi Australian an and and Canadian Canadian dollars, dollars, is is m made ade having having r re eg gard ard to to s sp po ot t ex exchange change Sto Stoc ck kp piles iles re repres present ent ore ore that that has has b been een ex extr tracte acted d and and is is available available for for fu further rther proce processi ssing.
If If there there is is significant significant uncertainty uncertainty a as s to to wh when en the the sto stoc ck kp piled iled rates, rates, historical historical d da ata ta and and external external f fo oreca recasts, sts, and and is is li linked nked to to price price assu assumpti mptions.
ore ore will will be be proces processe sed d it it is is expe expens nsed ed as as incurred.
Wher Where e the the future future processing processing of of this this ore ore can can be be predicted predicted with with confidence, confidence, eg eg bec beca au us se i e it t ex exc ce ee eds ds th the e mine mines s cut cut off off gra grad fide, e, it it is is value valued d a at t the the lo lower wer of of co cost st and and ne net t r re ealisable alisable value.
If If the the ore ore wi will ll not not be be proc proces essed sed within within the the 1 12 2 m mo onths nths af after ter the the statem statement ent When When calcula calculat ting ing value value in in use, use, IAS IAS 36 36 requires requires that that calculations calculations should should be be based based on on exch exchange ange rates rates current current at at the the tim time e of of th the e a assess ssessment.
of of financial financial position position date date it it is is included included within within non-current non-current assets assets and and n ne et t realisable realisable valu value e is is calculated calculated on on a a discounted discounted ca cash sh f flow low basis.
Work Work in in progress progress Non Non finan financial cial asse assets ts oth other er than than go goo od dwill will that that have have su suffered ffered an an iim mpairm pairme ent nt are are test tested ed for for possible possible reversal reversal of of the the impair impairment ment wh whenever enever even events ts inventory inventory include includes s ore ore s stoc tockpiles kpiles a an nd d other other partly partly pr process ocesse ed d ma mat te erial.
Quantities Quantities are are ass asse essed ssed prim primarily arily th through rough surveys surveys and and as assays.
or or changes changes in in circ circums umstances tances indicat indicate e th that at the the iim mpair pairm me ent nt m may ay hav have e reversed.
m m Taxation Taxation j j Determina Determinat tion ion of of ore ore res reserve erve estimates estimates Current Current tax tax is is th the e tax tax expected expected to to be be paya payable ble on on the the taxable taxable incom income e for for the the year year calculated calculated using using rates rates tha that t have have been been enacted enacted or or substantiv substantivel ely y The The Group Group esti estima mates tes its its ore ore re reserve serves s and and mine mineral ral res reso ources urces bas base ed d on on iin nform formation ation com comp piilled ed by by Co Comp mpeten etent t Persons Persons as as define defined d in in acc accor ordance dance w wiith th enacte enacted d by by the the s st tate atem ment ent of of financial financial position position dat date e..
It It includes includes a ad djustm justme ents nts for for tax tax ex expec pect ted ed to to be be pay paya abl ble e or or recov recove erable rable in in r respe espect ct of of previ previo ous us periods.
the the Australasian Australasian Code Code for for Reporting Reporting of of Ex Exploration ploration Results, Results, Mineral Mineral Re Resources sources and and Ore Ore Reserv Reserves es of of Dec Dece ember mber 2004 2004 the the J JO ORC RC code code.. Res Rese erves rves and, and, Deferred Deferred tax tax is is provided provided in in respe respec ct t of of fair fair value value a ad djustmen justment ts s on on acquisitions.
These These a ad djustmen justment ts s may may relat relate e to to asse assets ts such such a as s m mining ining rights rights that, that, in in for for certain certain m miines, fines, other other m miineral neral res reso ources, urces, fide deter term mined ined in in this this way way are are used used in in the the ca calcula lculat tion ion of of depr depreciatio eciation n, amortisation amortisation an and d im impairment pairment cha char rges, ges, general, general, are are not not eligible eligible for for in inco come me t ta ax x allowanc allowances.
Pr Provision ovision for for d fide eferre ferred d tax tax is is base based d on on t th he e differenc difference e b be et tw ween een the the carry carrying ing value value of of the the asse asset t and and the the asses assess sm me ent nt of of life life of of mine mine s st tripp ripping ing ratios ratios and and for for forecasting forecasting the the ti timing ming of of th the e pay paym ment ent of of clos close e d do own wn and and restora restorat tion ion co cos sts ts and and clean clean up up c co osts.
its its income income tax tax base base which which m may ay be be nil.
Even Even where where t th here ere is is no no inco income me tax tax bas base e, the the exis existence tence of of a a tax tax bas base e for for ca capital pital gains gains t tax ax purp purposes oses is is not not ta taken ken In In assessing assessing the the li life fe of of a a mine mine for for a ac cco counting unting purposes, purposes, m miineral neral resources resources are are only only tak take en n into into account account wher where e there there is is a a high high d fide egree gree of of confid confiden ence ce into into ac account count in in fide deter termi mining ning the the def defe err rre ed d tax tax provisi provisio on n for for the the mine mineral ral r riights ghts because because it it is is expe expecte cted d tha that t th the e carry carrying ing amount amount w will ill be be recov recove ered red prim primarily arily of of ec econo onom mic ic ex extraction.
through through use use of of the the rights rights and and no not t fr from om dis disposa posal.
l. Also, Also, the the Group Group is is only only entitle entitled d t to o a a fide ded du uction ction for for ca capital pital gains gains tax tax purpos purpose es s if if the the mineral mineral rights rights are are sold sold or or for form mally ally relinq relinqui uished.
k k Close Close down, down, restoration restoration and and environmental environmental clean clean up up obl obligations igations The The Group Group holds holds provisions provisions for for cl clos ose e d do own wn and and restor restoration ation cos cost ts s which which include include the the disma disman ntling tling and and fide demoli molition tion of of infrastruct infrastructure ure and and the the re remo moval val n n Post Post empl employment oyment bene benefits fits of of residual residual mat mate erials rials and and re reme mediation diation of of disturbed disturbed ar areas.
For For define defined d b be enefi nefit t po post st em employ ploymen ment t plans, plans, the the differe difference nce b be etw tween een th the e f fa air ir value value of of the the p pllan an asse assets ts if if any any and and the the presen present t v va alue lue of of the the plan plan li liabilities abilities is is recognised recognised as as a an n asset asset or or liability liability in in the the sta stat tem ement ent of of financial financial position.
Close Close down down and and r re estoration storation cos cost ts s a ar re e a a normal normal consequence consequence of of m miining, ning, and and the the m ma ajority jority of of clos close e down down and and restoration restoration exp expe enditure nditure is is incurred incurred at at the the end end of of the the life life of of the the m miine.
Al Alth though ough the the ulti ultim ma ate te cos cost t to to be be incurred incurred is is uncertain, uncertain, the the G Gr roup oups s busi businesses nesses estim estima ate te their their c cos ost ts s bas base ed d on on feasib feasibility ility and and Any Any asset asset rec reco ognised gnised is is res rest tricte ricted d, if if appro approp priate, riate, t to o t th he e pres present ent value value of of any any am amounts ounts th the e Grou Group p ex expec pect ts s t to o rec reco over ver by by way way of of refunds refunds from from th the e plan plan engineering engineering studies studies using using current current re restoration storation standar standard ds s and and techniques.
or or reductions reductions in in fut future ure contribution contributions.
s. Close Close do down wn and and r re estoration storation cos cost ts s a ar re e provide provided d f fo or r in in the the acc acco ount unting ing pe period riod when when th the e o ob bli ligation gation arising arising from from th the e relat relate ed d dist disturb urbance ance oc occurs curs b ba ased sed Actuarial Actuarial gains gains and and losses losses arisin arising g in in the the y ye ear ar ar are e ta take ken n to to the the sta stat te em men ent t of of co comp mprehensiv rehensive e incom income e.. For For this this purpose, purpose, a ac ctuarial tuarial gains gains and and loss losses es on on the the n ne et t presen present t value value of of future future c co osts.
This This may may oc occur cur duri during ng develo developm pment ent or or during during the the produc product tion ion pha phas se e of of a a facility facility.. com comp prise rise b both oth the the effec effect ts s of of change changes s in in actuarial actuarial assu assumpti mptions ons and and expe experience rience adjust adjustment ments s arising arising because because of of differenc differences es bet betw ween een the the pr previous evious actuarial actuarial assum assumptions ptions and and wh what at has has actually actually occurred.
Provis Provisions ions for for clos close e down down and and rest restor oration ation co cos st ts s d do o no not t include include any any ad addit ditiional onal obligatio obligations ns which which are are exp expe ect cte ed d to to arise arise fro from m fut futu ure re disturbance.
The The costs costs are are esti estim ma ated ted on on the the basi basis s of of a a cl closure osure pla plan n and and are are updated updated annually annually during during the the life life of of the the oper operation ation to to reflect reflect k kn no ow wn n d dev evel elop opm men ent ts s, O Ot ther her m mo ov five em me ents nts in in the the net net surplu surplus s or or deficit deficit are are r re ecognised cognised in in the the income income sta stat tem ement, ent, iin ncluding cluding the the current current service service cos cost t, a an ny y p past ast servic service e c co ost st and and e. e. g. g. revisions revisions to to c co ost st estima estimates tes and and to to the the estima estimate ted d lives lives of of opera operations tions..
The The esti estimates mates ar are e subjec subject t t to o for form ma al l review review a at t regula regular r intervals.
the the eff effe ect ct of of any any curtailm curtailment ent or or settlements.
The The inter intere est st co cost st less less the the expected expected r re eturn turn on on asse assets ts is is also also cha char rged ged to to the the incom income e sta stat te em ment.
All All o of f the the amounts amounts charged charged to to th the e inco income me stat statem ement ent in in re resp spect ect of of thes these e pl plans ans are are included included within within o op perating erating cos cost ts s or or iin n the the Group Groups s sha shar re e o of f the the results results o of f equity equity The The initial initial closure closure provision provision is is ca capitalise pitalised d within within pro prop pe erty rty, plant plant and and eq equipment.
Subse Subseq qu ue ent nt move movem me ents nts in in these these closure closure pro prov vis isions, ions, including including those those accounted accounted units units a as s appr appropriate.
resultin resulting g from from ne new w dis disturbanc turbance e, up update dated d c co ost st estim estima ates, tes, changes changes to to the the es estimat timate ed d liv live es s of of o op perations erations an and d revisions revisions to to disco discount unfit rates rates are are also also capitalised capitalised within within property property, pl plant ant and and e eq quipm uipmen ent.
t. These These c co osts sts are are then then fide depr preciat eciate ed d over over the the lives lives of of t th he e assets assets t to o whic which h they they relat relate e..
The The most most significant significant assumptions assumptions used used in in accounting accounting for for pension pension pl plan ans s are are the the long long ter term m rate rate of of return return on on plan plan assets, assets, the the disc discount ount rate rate and and the the m mo ortality rtality assu assum mptions.
The The long long ter term m rate rate of of return return on on plan plan assets assets is is u used sed to to calcul calculate ate iin nterest terest income income on on pension pension ass asse ets, ts, whic which h is is credited credited t to o the the The The am amortisation ortisation or or unwinding unwinding of of the the disc discount ount ap applied plied in in es establishing tablishing the the net net pres present ent va value lue of of provisio provisions ns iis s charged charged to to the the iincom ncome e sta stat te em ment ent in in each each Group Groups s inco income me st state atem ment.
The The disc discount ount rate rate is is used used t to o d fide eter term min ine e the the n ne et t pr present esent value value o of f future future liabilities.
The The discount discount ra rate te used used is is th the e y yiield eld o on n accounting accounting perio period d..
The The am amortisation ortisation of of th the e discount discount is is shown shown as as a a financing financing cost.
high high quality quality corporate corporate bonds bonds with with maturity maturity and and ter term ms s that that match match those those of of the the pos post t e em mpl plo oy yment ment obligations obligations as as cl closely osely as as pos possible sible.. Where Where t there here is is no no Where Where reha rehabilitation bilitation is is conduc conducte ted d s sy ystema stemat tic ically ally ov over er the the life life of of the the ope operation, ration, rather rather than than at at th the e ti time me of of cl clo os sure, ure, provision provision is is mad made e for for the the esti estimat mate ed d devel develope oped d c co orpor rporate ate bond bond mark market et in in a a country country, the the r ra ate te on on govern governme men nt t bon bonds ds is is use used d.. E Ea ach ch y ye ear, ar, th the e unw unwinding inding of of the the disc discount ount on on th those ose liabilities liabilities outstandi outstanding ng con cont tinuous inuous rehabilitation rehabilitation w wor ork k at at each each s st tate atem ment ent of of finan financ cial ial position position dat date e and and the the cost cost is is ch charged arged to to the the inco income me s stat tate em me ent.
is is charged charged t to o the the Group Groups s inco income me st state atem ment ent as as the the interest interest cos cost t..
The The mortality mortality a assu ssum mptio ption n is is used used t to o proje projec ct t the the future future s st trea ream m of of b be enefit nefit p pa ay ym ments, ents, which which is is then then disc discounted ounted to to arrive arrive a at t a a ne net t pres present ent va vallu ue e of of liabilities.
Clean Clean up up costs costs re result sult from from environ environm mental ental da damage mage t th hat at was was no not t a a necessary necessary consequen consequenc ce e of of operatio operations, ns, and and m may ay include include r re emediation mediation, co com mp pensation ensation and and penalties.
Provision Provision is is m made ade for for the the es estimat timate ed d pre pres sent ent value value of of such such costs costs at at th the e s st tat ate em ment ent of of financial financial position position da date.
The These se co costs sts are are charged charged t to o the the Valuations Valuations of of liabi liabillities ities are are carried carried out out using using the the projected projected unit unit method.
The The long-ter long-term m ra rate te of of return return on on pension pension plan plan assets assets is is determ determined ined as as income income stat statem ement ent.. Movem Moveme ents nts in in th these ese c clean lean up up provi provis sions ions are are pr pres esent ente ed d as as an an o op peratin erating g cost, cost, ex exce cept pt f fo or r the the unwinding unwinding of of t th he e di discount scount which which is is shown shown m managem anageme ents nts best best es estim timate ate of of the the long long te ter rm m return return on on the the m ma ajor jor ass asse et t class classe es, s, ie ie equity, equity, debt, debt, pr property operty a an nd d other, other, weighted weighted by by th the e ac actual tual all allo ocation cation of of as as a a financing financing cos cost t.. assets assets a am mong ong the the categ catego ories ries at at the the m me easure asurem me ent nt da date.
The The expected expected rate rate of of return return is is calculated calculated using using geom geome etric tric a avera veragin ging.
g. Re Remediation mediation proc procedures edures may may c co om mm menc ence e so soon on aft after er the the ti time me the the disturbance, disturbance, rem reme ediati diatio on n proc process ess and and es estimat timate ed d re reme mediati diatio on n cos cost ts s b be eco come me known, known, The The values values a attribu ttribut ted ed to to plan plan liabiliti liabilitie es s an and d the the llo ong-t ng-term erm rat rate e of of return return are are asses assess sed ed in in a accordanc ccordance e with with the the advic advice e of of indep indepe endent ndent qu quali alified fied ac actuaries tuaries.. but but can can continue continue f fo or r m many any years years depending depending on on th the e na nature ture of of the the disturb disturbance ance and and the the re remediation mediation techniques techniques used.
The The Group Groups s contr contriibutions butions to to define defined d con cont tribution ribution pe pension nsion plans plans ar are e c ch harged arged to to the the inc inco om me e sta stat te em ment ent in in the the period period to to which which the the contributions contributions relate.
o o Cash Cash and and cash cash equivale equivalents nts For For the the purpos purposes es of of the the stat statem ement ent of of financial financial positio position, n, cash cash an and d cash cash equivalents equivalents co comp mprise rise cash cash on on hand, hand, fide deposits posits h he eld ld on on call call with with banks banks an and d short short term term, highly highly liquid liquid investments investments that that are are readily readily conv convertible ertible into into k kn nown own a am mounts ounts of of ca cash sh a an nd d which which are are su subj bject ect to to insignificant insignificant risk risk of of changes changes iin n value.
For For the the purpos purposes es of of the the cash cash fl flow ow s st tate atem men ent, t, cash cash and and cash cash equivalent equivalents s are are net net of of ba bank nk overdrafts overdrafts that that ar are e repay repaya abl ble e on on d fide em mand and which which are are s sh hown own as as current current liabilities liabilities on on the the s st tat atement ement of of financial financial position.
144 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 145 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued l Inventories 1 Principal accounting policies continued Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated by reference to the cost levels experienced in the relevant month together with those in opening inventory.
Cost for raw materials and stores is i Depreciation and impairment continued purchase price and for partly processed and saleable products is generally the cost of production.
For this purpose the costs of production include: For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
The great majority of the Groups sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars.
To the extent that the currencies of countries in which the Group produces labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: commodities strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, cash flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced.
the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and Management considers that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in commodity prices to compensate to some extent for movements production overheads.
in the value of the US dollar and vice versa.
However, such compensating changes are not synchronised and do not fully offset each other.
In estimating fair value, a forecast of the long term exchange rates, for the Australian and Canadian dollars, is made having regard to spot exchange Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is available for further processing.
If there is significant uncertainty as to when the stockpiled rates, historical data and external forecasts, and is linked to price assumptions.
ore will be processed it is expensed as incurred.
Where the future processing of this ore can be predicted with confidence, eg because it exceeds the mines cut off grade, it is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
If the ore will not be processed within the 12 months after the statement When calculating value in use, IAS 36 requires that calculations should be based on exchange rates current at the time of the assessment.
of financial position date it is included within non-current assets and net realisable value is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis.
Work in progress Non financial assets other than goodwill that have suffered an impairment are tested for possible reversal of the impairment whenever events inventory includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed material.
Quantities are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
or changes in circumstances indicate that the impairment may have reversed.
m Taxation j Determination of ore reserve estimates Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with enacted by the statement of financial position date.
It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
Reserves and, Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in for certain mines, other mineral resources, determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the assessment of life of mine stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payment of close down and restoration costs and clean up costs.
its income tax base which may be nil.
Even where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree of confidence into account in determining the deferred tax provision for the mineral rights because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily of economic extraction.
through use of the rights and not from disposal.
Also, the Group is only entitled to a deduction for capital gains tax purposes if the mineral rights are sold or formally relinquished.
k Close down, restoration and environmental clean up obligations The Group holds provisions for close down and restoration costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and the removal n Post employment benefits of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas.
For defined benefit post employment plans, the difference between the fair value of the plan assets if any and the present value of the plan liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position.
Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their costs based on feasibility and Any asset recognised is restricted, if appropriate, to the present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques.
or reductions in future contributions.
Close down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs based Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses on the net present value of future costs.
This may occur during development or during the production phase of a facility.
comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Provisions for close down and restoration costs do not include any additional obligations which are expected to arise from future disturbance.
The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan and are updated annually during the life of the operation to reflect known developments, Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including the current service cost, any past service cost and e. g. revisions to cost estimates and to the estimated lives of operations.
The estimates are subject to formal review at regular intervals.
the effect of any curtailment or settlements.
The interest cost less the expected return on assets is also charged to the income statement.
All of the amounts charged to the income statement in respect of these plans are included within operating costs or in the Groups share of the results of equity The initial closure provision is capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent movements in these closure provisions, including those accounted units as appropriate.
resulting from new disturbance, updated cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of operations and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans are the long term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate and the mortality assumptions.
The long term rate of return on plan assets is used to calculate interest income on pension assets, which is credited to the The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income statement in each Groups income statement.
The discount rate is used to determine the net present value of future liabilities.
The discount rate used is the yield on accounting period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown as a financing cost.
high quality corporate bonds with maturity and terms that match those of the post employment obligations as closely as possible.
Where there is no Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the estimated developed corporate bond market in a country, the rate on government bonds is used.
Each year, the unwinding of the discount on those liabilities outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each statement of financial position date and the cost is charged to the income statement.
is charged to the Groups income statement as the interest cost.
The mortality assumption is used to project the future stream of benefit payments, which is then discounted to arrive at a net present value of liabilities.
Clean up costs result from environmental damage that was not a necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation, compensation and penalties.
Provision is made for the estimated present value of such costs at the statement of financial position date.
These costs are charged to the Valuations of liabilities are carried out using the projected unit method.
The long-term rate of return on pension plan assets is determined as income statement.
Movements in these clean up provisions are presented as an operating cost, except for the unwinding of the discount which is shown managements best estimate of the long term return on the major asset classes, ie equity, debt, property and other, weighted by the actual allocation of as a financing cost.
assets among the categories at the measurement date.
The expected rate of return is calculated using geometric averaging.
Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs become known, The values attributed to plan liabilities and the long-term rate of return are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
but can continue for many years depending on the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
o Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks and short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand which are shown as current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
com 145 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued iv Fa iv Fair v ir val alu ue e 1 1 Principal ac Principal accounting policies continued counting policies continued Fair Fair value value is is the the a am mount ount a at t which which a a financial financial instrum instrument ent could could be be excha exchan nged ged in in an an arm arms s lle ength ngth tr tra an ns sa ac cti tion on bet betw we een en i in nf for orm me ed a d an nd d willing willing parties.
Where Where relevant relevant mark market et p pr rices ices are are availabl available e, these these hav have e b been een used used t to o determ determine ine fair fair values.
In In other other cases, cases, fair fair val values ues have have been been cal calc culated ulated using using quotations quotations p p Fi Financial financial iin nstruments struments from from independent independent financial financial institutions, institutions, or or by by using using v valuation aluation techniqu techniques es consistent consistent wi with th general general marke market t p pr ractice actice ap applicabl plicable e to to th the e instrumen instrument.
t. i i F Fi ina nanc ncial ial ass asse et ts s a a Th The e fair fair values values o of f cash, cash, short-t short-te erm rm borrowings borrowings and and llo oans ans to to joint joint ventur ventures es and and as associat sociates es approxima approximat te e to to th their eir carry carrying ing va values, lues, as as a a result result of of t their heir The The Group Group classifi classifies es its its financial financial ass asse ets ts in in t the he foll following owing catego categories: ries: a at t fa fair ir value value through through prof profit it or or loss, loss, llo oans ans and and rec rece eivab ivables, les, av avai ailable-f lable-fo or-sale r-sale and and short short ma maturity turity or or because because they they c ca arry rry floating floating rates rates of of interest.
held held t to o maturity maturity investments.
The The classifi classification cation fide dep pe ends nds on on the the p purp urpose ose f fo or r which which the the financial financial assets assets were were acquired.
The The G Gr roup oups s po polliic cy y w wiith th re rega gard rd to to Financial Financial risk risk m managem anageme ent nt is is s se et t ou out t in in note note 31.
G Ge enerally, nerally, th the e Gro Grou up p do does es no not t ac acquire quire financial financial assets assets for for the the purpos purpose e o of f s selling elling in in the the sh short ort t te erm.
b b The The fair fair values values of of m me edium dium and and long long- -t ter erm m borrowings borrowings are are calcul calculat ated ed as as the the pres present ent valu value e of of th the e es esti tim ma at ted f ed fu utu tur re c e ca as sh h f fllo ow ws s using using quoted quoted pric prices es When When the the Grou Group p e en nters ters into into deriva derivative tive con cont tracts racts thes these e transactions transactions are are designed designed to to redu reduce ce ex exposures posures r re elat late ed d t to o ass asse ets ts and and li liabi abilit litie ies s, firm firm comm commit itme ment nts s in in active active marke market ts s or or an an appr appropriate opriate ma marke rket t b ba ased sed y yiiel eld d curve.
The The carry carrying ing valu value e of of th the e b bo orrowings rrowings is is am amortised ortised c co ost.
st. or or anticipate anticipated d tra tran nsactions.
c c Derivative Derivative financial financial assets assets and and lia liab bilities ilities are are carried carried a at t fair fair value value based based on on quot quoted ed mar mark ket et prices prices wh where ere avai available.
Wh Where ere no no price price inform information ation is is Management Management fide dete termines rmines the the classification classification of of financial financial assets assets at at initial initial recognition.
available available fro from m a a q qu uoted oted mar mark ket et sou sour rce, ce, fair fair va value lue is is e es stimat timate ed d base based d o on n th the e Group Groups s vie view ws s on on rel refile evant vant fu fut ture ure prices prices using using mo model delling ling techniques.
a a F Fiina nanc ncial ial assets assets at at fa fair ir v val alu ue e th throu roug gh h p pr rofit ofit or or lo loss ss The The fair fair values values of of the the various various d fide erivative rivative in instrum struments ents u used sed f fo or r hedging hedging purposes purposes are are di discl sclo osed sed in in not note e 32.
M Mo ove vements ments on on th the e hedg hedging ing reserve reserve a ar re e Derivatives Derivatives are are in included cluded within within financial financial a assets ssets at at fair fair value value through through pr profit ofit or or llo oss ss unless unless they they are are d fide esignat signated ed as as hedges.
As Ass sets ets in in this this ca categor tegory y are are disclose disclosed d within within n note ote 30.
30. classified classified bas base ed d o on n their their maturity maturity..
The The Group Group assess assesses es at at each each s st tat atem ement ent of of fi financial financial po position sition date date whe whet ther her there there is is obje objec cti tive five evid evidence ence that that a a financial financial asset asset or or a a group group of of financial financial assets assets b b Loans Loans and and recei receiv vables ables is is impaired.
In In the the case case of of equity equity se securiti curities es classified classified as as available available- -for-s for-sa ale, le, an an evaluation evaluation is is mad made e as as to to whe whet ther her a a d fide ecline cline iin n f fair air value value is is significant significant Loans Loans and and receiva receivab bles les com comp prise rise nonnon-derivative derivative finan financ cial ial assets assets with with fix fixe ed d or or fide deter term minab inablle e pay paym ments ents that that a ar re e not not quot quoted ed in in a an n ac active tive mark market, et, w wiith th or or prol prolo onged nged ba based sed on on an an analy analys sis is of of in indicat dicato ors rs suc such h as as significant significant ad adverse verse change changes s in in the the t te ec chno hnollo ogic gica all, m ma ark rket et, e ec co on nom omic ic o or r legal legal env environm ironment ent the the exc exce ep pt tion ion of of it items ems for for which which th the e Group Group may may n not ot re recover cover subs substa tantiall ntially y all all of of its its invest investment ment for for reas reasons ons other other than than credit credit fide deterioration, terioration, which which are are in in which which the the co com mp pany any invested invested in in o op perates.
classified classified as as a av vailable-f ailable-fo or-sal r-sale e.. Trade Trade re rece ceivables ivables are are included included within within this this category, category, however, however, trad trade e r rec ecei eiv va abl bles es s su ubj bjec ect t to to p pr rovisional ovisional pricing pricing are are valued valued W Wh here ere an an existing existing financial financial liability liability is is re replac placed ed by by ano anot ther her from from the the sam same e lend lender er on on su substantially bstantially different different term terms, s, or or the the term terms s of of an an existing existing liability liability as as explained explained in in note note 1 1 c c S Sales ales revenue.
are are substantially substantially mo modified, dified, such such an an exchange exchange or or mod modiification fication is is treate treated d as as a a derec dereco ognition gnition of of the the original original liability liability and and the the re recognition cognition of of a a n ne ew w liability, liability, c Held to maturit c Held to maturity y and and the the difference difference in in the the res resp pec ective tive carry carrying ing amo amounts unts is is recognised recognised in in t th he e incom income e st state atem ment.
HeldHeld-toto-ma maturity turity investm investme ents nts are are n no on-derivati n-derivative five financial financial assets assets with with f fiixed xed or or det dete ermin rmina ab ble le pay paym men ents ts and and fixed fixed maturity maturity th that at th the e G Gr rou oup p h ha as s t th he pos e posiiti tiv five e intention intention and and a ab bility ility to to h ho old ld to to ma maturity turity.. q q S Share hare- -bas base ed d payments payments d d Ava  sale le fi fina nanci ncial al as assets sets The The fair fair value value of of c ca ash-set sh-settled tled share share plans plans is is rec reco ognised gnised as as a a liability liability ove over r the the ves vest tin ing g perio period d of of the the a aw wards.
Movem Moveme ents nts in in tha that t liability liability be betwe twee en n AvailableAvailable-f fo orr-sale sale financial financial assets assets a ar re e nonnon-derivatives derivatives that that are are ei either ther fide designated signated as as av available-f ailable-fo or-sale r-sale or or no not t classified classified in in a any ny of of the the other other cat cate egories.
accounting accounting dat date es s are are recognised recognised as as an an expens expense.
e. The The g gr rant ant date date fair fair valu value e of of the the a aw wards ards is is det dete ermined rmined from from t th he e mar mark ket et value value o of f t the he shares shares at at the the dat date e of of They They are are included included in in nonnon-current current as assets sets unl unless ess the the G Gr roup oup intends intends to to dis dispose pose of of the the inve investm stme ent nt within within 12 12 months months of of the the s st tatem atement ent of of fina financi ncial al positio position n award award and and adjusted adjusted for for any any m mark arket et based based vesting vesting con cond ditions itions atta attach ched ed to to the the award award eg eg relative relative To Total tal S Sh hareho arehollder der Return Return T TS SR R per perfor form mance.
Fa Fair ir values values date date or or the the asse asset t matures matures wi within thin le less ss than than 12 12 month months s.. are are subsequently subsequently rere-m measured easured at at each each account accountiin ng g d da ate t te to r o ref efllec ect t th the e m ma ar rk ke et v t va allu ue e of of s sh hares ares at at th the e meas measurement urement dat date e and and, where where r re ellev eva an nt t, the the num numbe ber r of of awards awards expected expected to to ves vest t bas base ed d o on n the the current current an and d anticipated anticipated TSR TSR perform performance.
If If any any awards awards are are ultimately ultimately settled settled in in sh shares ares, the the liability liability iis s ii ii Fin Fina an ncial cial l li iab abili ilitie ties s transferred transferred direc direct tlly y to to e eq quity uity as as p pa art rt of of th the e considerati consideratio on n for for the the equi equity ty instruments instruments issue issued d..
Borrowings Borrowings and and other other financial financial liabilities liabilities i including ncluding trade trade pay paya ables bles but but e ex xcluding cluding deri derivative vative liabilities liabilities are are recognised recognised initi initially ally at at fair fair value, value, net net o of f transaction transaction costs costs iin ncurred curred and and are are s su ubseq bsequently uently s st tated ated at at amortised amortised cost.
The The Group Groups s equit equity y-settlsettled ed share share pl plans ans are are se settle ttled d eit eith her er by by the the iissue ssue o of f shares shares by by th the e rel refile evant vant par pare ent nt c co om mp pany any, by by the the purc purchas hase e of of shares shares on on marke market t or or by by the the use use of of s sh hares ares previous previously ly a ac cquired quired as as part part of of a a share share buy buy ba back.
The The fai fair r value value of of t th he e share share plans plans is is recognised recognised as as an an expense expense ov over er the the expec expect ted ed Any Any differen difference ce bet betw ween een the the a am mount ounts s originally originally received received f fo or r borrowings borrowings and and other other financia financial l liabilities liabilities net net of of transaction transaction costs costs and and the the red rede em mpti ption on value value vestin vesting g period period wit with h a a corresp corresponding onding entry entry to to retained retained earnings earnings for for Rio Rio Ti Tinto nto pl plc c plan plans s and and to to other other res rese erves rves f fo or r Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Lim Limiit te ed d plans.
is is recognised recognised in in t th he e incom income e st state atem ment ent ov over er the the peri perio od d to to maturity maturity using using the the eff effe ectiv ctive e int inte erest rest me method.
If If the the co cost st of of shar shares es ac acquired quired t to o sat satiisf sfy y the the plans plans exc exceeds eeds the the exp expe ens nse e charged, charged, the the exce excess ss is is tak take en n t to o th the e appropriat appropriate e reserv reserve e..
The The fai fair r value value o of f the the s share hare i iii ii Der Deri ivat vati ive five fi fin na an nc cial ial in inst stru rume ment nts s an and d he hed dg ge e acc acco ount unti in ng g plans plans is is d fide eter term mined ined a at t the the dat date e of of grant, grant, tak takiing ng into into account account any any m market arket based based ves vest tin ing g conditions conditions at attache tached d to to the the award award eg eg TSR TSR.. Derivatives Derivatives are are initially initially recognised recognised a at t th their eir fair fair value value o on n the the da date te the the der deriivative vative contract contract is is entered entered into into an and d transaction transaction co cos st ts s a ar re e exp expe ensed nsed in in the the income income stat statem ement ent..
They They are are subse subseq qu uently ently re re- -m measur easure ed d subje subjec ct t to to IA IAS S 39 39 at at their their fair fair valu value e at at each each st state atem ment ent of of financial financial po positi sition on date.
The The m me ethod thod of of The The Group Group uses uses fa fair ir values values provid provided ed by by indep indepe endent ndent a ac ctuaries tuaries calcula calculat te ed d using using a a lattic lattice e b ba ased sed option option valua valuat tion ion m model.
recognising recognising the the re resulting sulting gain gain or or los loss s fide depends pends on on wh whe et ther her or or no not t the the d fide er rivative ivative is is designa designat ted ed as as a a he hedging dging instrument instrument an and, d, if if s so, o, the the nature nature of of t th he e ite item m N No on-m n-market arket based based ves vest ting ing conditions conditions eg eg ea earnings rnings per per share share targ targets ets a are re taken taken into into acco account unfit in in esti estimating mating the the num number ber of of a aw wards ards llikely ikely to to five vest.
st. being being hedge hedged d..
The The Grou Group p d fide esignat signates es cer cert tain ain fide derivati rivatives ves as as either either he hedges dges of of the the fair fair valu value e of of r re ec cognised ognised asset assets s or or liabili liabilities ties o or r of of firm firm com comm miitm tments ents The The esti estimate mate of of t th he e numb numbe er r of of a awa war rds ds likely likely to to v five est st iis s reviewe reviewed d at at ea eac ch h state statem men ent t of of financial financial position position da date te up up to to the the vestin vesting g date, date, a at t which which p po oint int the the fair fair value value hedges hedges or or hedg hedges es of of highly highly probabl probable e for fore ec ca ast st transactions transactions c cash ash flow flow hedge hedges s.. estima estimate te is is a ad djust justed ed t to o refl reflect ect the the a ac ctual tual awards awards issued.
No No adjust adjustmen ment t is is made made after after th the e ves vest ting ing date date ev eve en n if if the the awar awards ds ar are e f forfeit orfeited ed or or not not exercised.
Fair Fair val valu ue e hedges hedges:: Changes Changes in in the the fai fair r value value of of derivati derivatives ves th that at are are desig design nated ated an and d qualify qualify as as fair fair value value he hedges dges are are re record corded ed in in the the inco income me sta stat te emen ment t, The The ter term ms s of of each each plan plan are are consider considered ed a at t the the stat state em me en nt t of of financial financial p po os siition tion date.
If If a a cas cash h-settlsettled ed plan plan cha chan nges ges to to be beco come me e eq qu uity ity- -settl settled ed then then the the togeth togethe er r with with any any changes changes in in the the fai fair r value value of of the the h he ed dg ged ed ass asse et t or or liability liability or or firm firm c co ommit mmitm ment ent that that is is attrib attributable utable to to the the he hed dged ged risk.
Wh Where ere d fide erivatives rivatives accumulat accumulate ed d liability liability is is transferred transferred direct directlly y t to e o equ quiity ty a at th t the e da dat te of e of c ch ha an ng ge.
e. are are held held with with different different co count unterpartie erparties s or or with with t the he sa sam me e count counterparty erparty wit with h no no intention intention t to o settl settle e net net to to the the underly underlying ing asset asset or or liability liability or or firm firm com comm mit itment, ment, the the fair fair values values of of the the derivati derivative five ass asse ets ts and and liabili liabilities ties are are show shown n se separa parately tely in in the the stat state em ment ent of of financial financial positio position n as as there there is is no no legal legal right right Further Further inform informati atio on n about about the the trea treatm tmen ent t of of individual individual share-bas share-base ed d pay paym men ent t plans plans is is provided provided in in note note 46.
r r Share Share capi capital tal When When a a fair fair value value interest interest rate rate hedg hedging ing inst instrument rument ex expires pires or or is is s so old, ld, or or when when a a fair fair va valu lue e interest interest rate rate hedg hedge e no no longer longer m me eets ets the the cri crit teria eria for for he hedge dge Ordinary Ordinary shares shares a ar re e classified classified a as s e eq qu uity ity..
Incremental Incremental costs costs directly directly a attributable ttributable to to the the issue issue of of ne new w shares shares are are shown shown in in equit equity y as as a a deduc deduct tion, ion, net net of of tax, tax, accounting, accounting, the the fa fair ir value value adjustments adjustments which which have have be been en ma made fide to to the the h he edged dged ite item m are are a am mortise ortised d through through the the inco income me s st tat ate em ment ent over over the the rem rema aining ining from from the the pr proce ocee ed ds s.. life life of of th the e he hedged dged item item or or writt writte en n off off imm imme edi diat ately ely whe wher re e the the he hedge dged d ite item m is is derec dereco ognised gnised.. Where Where any any grou group p comp company any purchas purchase es s the the Grou Group ps s eq equity uity share share capita capital l treasury treasury shares, shares, the the consid consideration eration paid, paid, including including any any dir directly ectly at attributable tributable Cash Cash flow flow hed hedg ges es:: The The effec effect tive ive porti portion on of of changes changes in in t th he e fai fair r value value of of d fide er rivatives ivatives that that are are designated designated and and q qu ualify alify as as cash cash flow flow hedges hedges is is recog recogni nised sed incremental incremental cos cost ts s net net of of inco income me ta taxes xes is is d fide educt ducted ed f fr rom om equity equity attribu attribut table able to to own owne ers rs of of Rio Rio Tinto.
Where Where such such shares shares are are s su ubs bsequently equently r re eissued, issued, in in equity equity..
The The gain gain or or loss loss r re elating lating t to o th the e ineffectiv ineffective e portion portion is is reco recognis gnised ed iim mm me ediate diately ly in in the the inco income me sta stat te em ment.
A Am mounts ounts a accu ccumulat mulate ed d in in eq equity uity are are any any consideration consideration received, received, net net of of a an ny y directly directly attribu attribut table able incr increm emental ental transaction transaction co costs sts and and the the r re elate lated d in incom come e tax tax eff effe ects, cts, i is s included included in in equi equity ty recycled recycled in in the the in income come st state atem men ent t iin n the the p pe eriod riod when when the the he hedged dged ite item m affects affects profit profit or or lo loss, ss, for for exa exam mple ple w wh hen en the the f fo orecast recast s sa ale le that that is is being being hedged hedged attributabl attributable e t to o o ow wners ners of of Ri Rio o Tinto.
e. Wh When en the the f fo orecast recast trans transa action ction that that is is b be eing ing hedged hedged r results esults in in the the rec reco ogn gnition ition o of f a a non non- -financial financial as asset set the the gain gains s a an nd d loss losses es pr previousl eviously y deferred deferred in in equity equity are are transferred transferred fr from om equi equity ty and and adj adju ust st the the cost cost of of the the asset.
The The gains gains and and loss losses es are are r re ec co ognised gnised subs subseque equent ntly ly in in the the inco income me statem statement ent when when the the nonnon-financial financial a asset sset is is a am mortis ortise ed.
d. When When a a cash cash flow flow hedging hedging instrum instrument ent expires expires or or is is sol sold d, or or when when a a cash cash flow flow he hedge dge no no lon long ger er me meets ets the the criteria criteria for for hedge hedge acc acco oun unting, ting, although although the the forecast forecasted ed transaction transaction is is still still expe expec ct ted ed to to occur occur, any any cumulative cumulative gain gain o or r loss loss rela relati ting ng to to the the instrum instrument ent which which is is held held in in equi equit ty y at at that that time time re remains mains in in equity equity and and is is re recognised cognised wh when en th the e fore foreca cast st transaction transaction is is ultim ultima ately tely r re ecognised cognised in in the the iin ncom come e sta stat te em ment.
When When a a forecas forecast t t tr ra ansaction nsaction is is no no longer longer expec expect ted ed t to o o occur, ccur, the the cu cumulative mulative g ga ain in or or loss loss that that wa was s report reporte ed d in in equi equity ty is is imm imme edi diat ately ely transferred transferred t to o th the e income income stat statem ement ent.. Deri Derivat vatiives ves t th hat at do do not not qual qualiify fy for for hedge hedge accou accoun nt tiin ng g:: Any Any derivative derivative c co ontr ntra acts cts tha that t d do o no not t q qu ualify alify for for hedge hedge a accounting ccounting are are m ma ark rked ed to to m market arket at at the the state statem ment ent of of fina financial ncial position position dat date e.. Embedded Embedded derivat derivatiives: ves: Derivatives Derivatives emb embe edd dded ed in in other other financial financial in instruments struments or or other other h ho ost st contract contracts s are are tre trea ate ted d as as se separate parate derivatives derivatives wh when en t th heir eir ris risks ks and and characteristic characteristics s are are not not clo clos sely ely r re elate lated d t to o th their eir host host con cont tract racts.
s. In In so some me cases, cases, the the e em mbed bedd ded ed derivative derivatives s may may be be designat designated as ed as hedges hedges and and will will be be accounte accounted d for for as as describe described d ab above.
146 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 147 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued iv Fair value 1 Principal accounting policies continued Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties.
Where relevant market prices are available, these have been used to determine fair values.
In other cases, fair values have been calculated using quotations p Financial instruments from independent financial institutions, or by using valuation techniques consistent with general market practice applicable to the instrument.
i Financial assets a The fair values of cash, short-term borrowings and loans to joint ventures and associates approximate to their carrying values, as a result of their The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, available-for-sale and short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The Groups policy with regard to Financial risk management is set out in note 31.
Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in the short term.
b The fair values of medium and long-term borrowings are calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows using quoted prices When the Group enters into derivative contracts these transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and liabilities, firm commitments in active markets or an appropriate market based yield curve.
The carrying value of the borrowings is amortised cost.
c Derivative financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value based on quoted market prices where available.
Where no price information is Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
available from a quoted market source, fair value is estimated based on the Groups views on relevant future prices using modelling techniques.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 32.
Movements on the hedging reserve are Derivatives are included within financial assets at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are disclosed within note 30. classified based on their maturity.
The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets b Loans and receivables is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, an evaluation is made as to whether a decline in fair value is significant Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, with or prolonged based on an analysis of indicators such as significant adverse changes in the technological, market, economic or legal environment the exception of items for which the Group may not recover substantially all of its investment for reasons other than credit deterioration, which are in which the company invested in operates.
Trade receivables are included within this category, however, trade receivables subject to provisional pricing are valued Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability as explained in note 1 c Sales revenue.
are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, c Held to maturity and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
q Share-based payments d Available-for-sale financial assets The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability between Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the other categories.
accounting dates are recognised as an expense.
The grant date fair value of the awards is determined from the market value of the shares at the date of They are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the statement of financial position award and adjusted for any market based vesting conditions attached to the award eg relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Fair values date or the asset matures within less than 12 months.
are subsequently re-measured at each accounting date to reflect the market value of shares at the measurement date and, where relevant, the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance.
If any awards are ultimately settled in shares, the liability is ii Financial liabilities transferred directly to equity as part of the consideration for the equity instruments issued.
Borrowings and other financial liabilities including trade payables but excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by the issue of shares by the relevant parent company, by the purchase of shares on market or by the use of shares previously acquired as part of a share buy back.
The fair value of the share plans is recognised as an expense over the expected Any difference between the amounts originally received for borrowings and other financial liabilities net of transaction costs and the redemption value vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto Limited plans.
is recognised in the income statement over the period to maturity using the effective interest method.
If the cost of shares acquired to satisfy the plans exceeds the expense charged, the excess is taken to the appropriate reserve.
The fair value of the share iii Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market based vesting conditions attached to the award eg TSR.
Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
They are subsequently re-measured subject to IAS 39 at their fair value at each statement of financial position date.
The method of The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated using a lattice based option valuation model.
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item Non-market based vesting conditions eg earnings per share targets are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each statement of financial position date up to the vesting date, at which point the fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges.
estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, The terms of each plan are considered at the statement of financial position date.
If a cash-settled plan changes to become equity-settled then the together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or firm commitment that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Where derivatives accumulated liability is transferred directly to equity at the date of change.
are held with different counterparties or with the same counterparty with no intention to settle net to the underlying asset or liability or firm commitment, the fair values of the derivative assets and liabilities are shown separately in the statement of financial position as there is no legal right Further information about the treatment of individual share-based payment plans is provided in note 46. of offset.
r Share capital When a fair value interest rate hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a fair value interest rate hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, accounting, the fair value adjustments which have been made to the hedged item are amortised through the income statement over the remaining from the proceeds.
life of the hedged item or written off immediately where the hedged item is derecognised.
Where any group company purchases the Groups equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable Cash flow hedges: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity recycled in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss, for example when the forecast sale that is being hedged attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
When the forecast transaction that is being hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and adjust the cost of the asset.
The gains and losses are recognised subsequently in the income statement when the non-financial asset is amortised.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, although the forecasted transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain or loss relating to the instrument which is held in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: Any derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the statement of financial position date.
Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to their host contracts.
In some cases, the embedded derivatives may be designated as hedges and will be accounted for as described above.
com 147 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued v v Def Defe er rr ral al of of s st tri ripping pping costs costs 1 1 Principal ac Principal accounting policies continued counting policies continued S St tripping ripping of of waste waste m materials aterials ta tak ke es s place place thro throughout ughout t th he e produc product tion ion sta stag ge e of of the the mine mine or or pit.
So Some me mining mining com comp panies anies ex expen pens se e thes these e pr producti oductio on n stage stage stripping stripping costs costs as as incurred, incurred, while while others others fide defer fer such such stripping stripping costs.
In In operations operations tha that t ex experien perience ce m mate aterial rial fluctuations fluctuations in in th the e ratio ratio of of waste waste m ma at te erials rials to to Critical Critical accounting accounting pol policies icies and and estimates estimates ore ore or or contained contained minerals minerals on on a a y ye ea ar r to to y ye ear ar basis basis ov ove er r the the life life of of th the e mine mine or or pit, pit, deferral deferral of of st stripping ripping c co osts sts reduces reduces the the v vo ollati atility lity of of the the cos cost t of of stripping stripping i Du i Dual lis al list ted co ed company r mpany re epo porting rting expensed expensed in in individual individual reporting reporting per periiods.
Those Those m miining ning com comp panies anies that that expense expense stripping stripping costs costs as as incurred incurred will will theref therefore ore report report great greate er r vola volatility tility in in the the As As explained explained in in fide detail tail in in the the O Outlin utline e of of dual dual list listed ed co companies mpanies struc structure ture and and basi basis s of of financial financial state statem men ents, ts, the the c co onsolida nsolidat ted ed financial financial statem statements ents results results of of their their o op pe er rati ation ons s fro from m p pe eriod riod t to o period.
of of the the Rio Rio Tint Tinto o G Gr roup oup dea deal l with with the the results, results, asse assets ts an and d liabilities liabilities of of b bo ot th h of of th the e du dua all l liis st te ed c d co om mpa pan niie es, s, Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc and and Ri Rio o Tinto Tinto Limit Limite ed, d, and and their their The The life life of of mine mine o or r pit pit was wast tee-to to-oreore ratio ratio is is a a f funct unction ion of of an an indi individual vidual m miine fines s pit pit design design an and d theref therefore ore ch chang ange es s t to o that that fide desig sign n will will generally generally resu result lt in in subsidiaries.
In In other other words, words, R Riio o Tinto Tinto p plc lc and and Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Li Limite mited d are are vi vie ew wed ed as as a a single single p pa are rent nt co company mpany with with their their resp respective ective s shareholders hareholders bei bein ng g the the changes changes to to the the ra rat tiio.
Changes Changes in in oth other er techni technical cal or or e ec conomic onomic para paramet mete er rs s that that im impact pact on on reserves reserves will will also also have have an an im impact pact o on n the the life life of of mine mine or or pit pit shareholders shareholders in in th that at single single c co om mp pan any y.. ratio ratio even even if if they they do do no not t affe affect ct the the pit pit d fide esign.
Changes Changes t to o the the life life of of mine mine or or pi pit t ratio ratio are are accounte accounted d for for pro prospectiv spectively.
The The 2011 2011 Annual Annual report report sa satisfies tisfies th the e o ob bligations ligations of of Ri Rio o Tinto Tinto Li Limite mited d t to o prepare prepare cons consolid olidated ated account accounts s under under Australian Australian co company mpany law, law, as as a am mended ended The The Group Groups s det dete er rm mination ination of of wheth whethe er r multipl multiple e pit pit mines mines are are c co onsidere nsidered d se separate parate or or inte integrated grated o op perations erations dep depe ends nds on on each each mine mines s specific specific by by an an order order issued issued by by th the e Aust Australia ralian n Securities Securities an and d IIn nvestments vestments C Co ommission mmission on on 22 22 Decem December ber 2010 2010 as as amended amended on on 17 17 F Fe ebruary bruary 20 2012 12..
The The 2011 2011 circum circumstances stances an and d the the analysis analysis req requ uires ires judg judgment: ment: a an nother other co com mp pany any c co ould uld mak make e th the e d fide et te ermin rmination ation that that a a mine mine is is se separate parate or or integ integrated rated differently differently financial financial state statem me en nts ts disclos disclose e th the e ef effect fect of of th the e adjust adjustments ments to to cons consolid olidated ated EU EU IFR IFRS S profi profit t, co consolida nsolidat ted ed total total com comp preh rehe ensive nsive in income come and and cons consolidate olidated d than than the the Group, Group, e ev ven en if if th the f e fa ac ct t pa pat tter tern n a app ppea ear rs s t to b o be s e siim miilla ar r.. T To o th the e e ex xte tent nt th the e d fide eter term miin nation ation is is di different, fferent, the the resulting resulting acc accounting ounting would would als also o shareholders shareholders funds funds for for the the Group Group t th hat at would would b be e requ required ired under under the the ver vers sion ion of of IFR IFRS S that that iis s app appllica icab ble le in in Au Aus stralia, tralia, referred referred t to o as as Australian Australian Accounting Accounting be be different.
Standards Standards AA AAS S.. During During 2011, 2011, production production stage stage stri stripping pping costs costs capitali capitalised sed by by subsidiaries subsidiaries and and eq equity uity acc acco ounted unted operations operations were were U US S$3 $307 07 milli million on a and nd th the e a am mou ount nt The The US US dollar dollar is is the the pres presentation entation currency currency us used ed in in th these ese financial financial sta stat tem ements, ents, as as it m it mo os st t reliably reliably reflects reflects th the e G Gr rou oups ps gl global obal business business perfor perform ma ance.
charged charged against against pre-tax pre-tax profit profit wa was s US$50 US$50 milli million on 20 2010: 10: production production sta stag ge e cos cost ts s ex exceeded ceeded the the amounts amounts ch charged arged against against pre pre tax tax pro profit fit by by US US$1 $123 23 million: million: ii ii I Im mpa pair irme ment nt re review view of of a asse sset t ca carr rrying ying valu values es 2009: 2009: producti productio on n stage stage c co osts sts exceeded exceeded the the a am mounts ounts ch charged arged against against pre-tax pre-tax pr profit ofit by by U US S$174 $174 million.
Events Events or or change changes s in in circumstanc circumstance es s can can give give rise rise to to significant significant impairment impairment charges charges or or reversals reversals of of impairm impairme ent nt in in a a particular particular y year.
There There was was U US S$11 $11 million million impairment impairment net net of of rev reve ersal rsals s of of deferred deferred stri stripping pping in in 2011.
In In 2010, 2010, there there w was as n no o impairment impairment of of deferr deferred ed s st tripping.
In In 2009, 2009, Where Where the the rec reco ove verable rable a am mounts ounts of of Group Group cash cash gener genera ating ting units units are are as assessed sessed by by analyse analyses s of of disc discounte ounted d ca cash sh flow flows, s, the the resul result tiing ng valuations valuations are are US$59 US$59 million million wa was s written written off off as as pa part rt of of th the e Diam Diamonds onds businesses businesses iim mpa pairment.
particularly particularly sensitive sensitive to to changes changes in in estim estima ates tes of of llo ongng-t term erm co com mm modity odity prices, prices, including including any any carbon carbon el elem emen ent, t, exchange exchange rat rate es, s, op ope erating rating costs costs a an nd d The The net net boo book k va value lue of of stripping stripping cos cost ts s carried carried forwar forward d iin n property property, p plant lant and and equip equipm ment ent an and d in in investm investme ents nts iin n jointly jointly controlled controlled entities entities and and ass asso ociates ciates discount discount rates.
N No ote te 12 12 outlines outlines the the significant significant judgm judgme ent nts s and and assu assum mpti ptions ons m ma ade fide in in perform performiing ng im impairm pairme ent nt tes test ting ing of of n no onn-current current ass asse ets.
Information Information ab about out the the s st tripping ripping ratios ratios of of th the e business business units, units, including including equity equity accounted accounted u un nits, its, that that account account for for the the m majority ajority o of f the the deferre deferred d strip stripp ping ing ii iii i Est Esti im matio ation n of of asset asset l li iv five es s an and d d fide eter term mi in nat ation ion of of o or re e res rese er rv five e esti estima mates tes balance balance a at t 31 31 Dec Dece ember mber 2011, 2011, al along ong with with the the y ye ear ar in in w which hich deferred deferred str striippi pping ng is is expected expected to to be be fully fully am amortised, ortised, is is set set out out in in t the he following following table: table: Intangible Intangible assets assets are are consider considered ed to to have have inde indefinit finite e liv live es s when, when, ba based sed o on n an an analysi analysis s of of al all l of of th the e rel refile evant vant f fa actors, ctors, there there is is n no o forese foreseeabl eable e limit limit to to th the e A Ac ct tu ua all st stri rippi ppin ng g ra rat tiio o fo for r y ye ear ar L Liif fe e o of f m miin ne e st stri rippi ppin ng g r ra ati tio o period period over over which which the the ass asse et t is is exp expe ec cted ted to to generat generate e c ca ash sh flows flows f fo or r the the Group.
The The fa factor ctors s consider considere ed d in in m ma aking king this this fide determi termin nati ation on include include th the e existenc existence e 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 of of contra contractual ctual rights rights for for unlim unlimit ite ed d t te erms: rms: or or evidenc evidence e that that rene renewal wal of of t th he e cont contrac ract tual ual rights rights without without si signifi gnific cant ant incremental incremental c cost ost can can b be e ex expec pect ted ed f fo or r a a d d indefinite indefinite periods periods into into the the fut future ure in in view view of of the the Group Groups s fu future ture investm investme ent nt intentions.
Kennecott Kennecott Uta Utah h Co Copper pper 20 2026 26 2.
1.21 21 a a Grasber Grasberg g Joi Join nt t five Ven nt ture ure 2016 2016 3.
3.00 00 Rio Rio Tinto Tinto estim estima ate tes s its its ore ore reserv reserves es and and m miineral neral resou resour rces ces bas base ed d on on inform information ation co com mp piled iled by by Co Comp mpet etent ent Pe Persons rsons as as d fide efined fined iin n acc accordanc ordance e with with the the b b Diav Diavik ik 2 2012 012 0.
1.02 02 Australasian Australasian Code Code for for Reporting Reporting of of E Ex xplorat ploration ion Results Results, Mineral Mineral Resourc Resources es and and Ore Ore Res Reserv erves es of of Dec Dece ember mber 2 2004 004 the the J JO ORC RC code.
The The amounts amounts c c e e Escondid Escondida a 2 2058 058 0.
0.14 14 present presente ed d und under er EU EU IFRS IFRS and and AA AAS S are are base based d on on the the reserves, reserves, and and in in som some e cases cases m miineral neral resources, resources, d fide eter term mined ined under under th the e J JO ORC RC c code.
a a Strippi Stripping ng ratios ratios show shown n a ar re e wast waste e to to ore. ore.
The The esti estimation mation of of ore ore reserv reserves es re requires quires judgment judgment t to o iin nterpret terpret a av vailable ailable geological geological data data th then en sele select ct an an appr appropriate opriate mining mining m me etho thod d and and estab establlish ish an an b b Diaviks Diaviks st str ripping ipping rat ratio io iis s disclos disclosed ed as as be bench nch c cu ubic bic me met tr re e per per cara carat t.. Th The e 2011 2011 ac act tu ual al rat ratio io is is low low beca becau use se produ produc ct tion ion is is n now ow from from t th he e bottom bottom of of the the A418 A418 pi pit t requiri requirin ng g le less ss movem movemen ent t of of was wast te e extraction extraction s sc chedu hedule.
It It also also requires requires assu assump mptions tions ab abo ou ut t future future co com mm mo od diity ty prices, prices, exchan exchange ge rates, rates, pr producti oductio on n cos cost ts, s, recov recove ery ry rat rates es and and discount discount rates rates per per cara carat.
t. and, and, in in some some inst instances ances, the the ren rene ewa wal l of of m miining ning licences.
c c Escondidas Escondidas stripping stripping ra ratio tio is is based based on on was wast te e to tonnes nnes to to po pou unds nds o of f co copp pper er mined mined..
The The hig high her er ac actu tual al ra ratio tio in in 201 2011 1 re reflect flects s t the he lower lower g gr rade ade in in th the e year.
d d K KU UCs Cs life life of of mine mine stripp stripping ing ratio ratio ha has s in increased creased because because of of a a stra strateg tegiic c r review eview of of the the Bing Bingham ham C Canyon anyon pi pit t iin n 2010 2010 w wh hich ich led led t to o a a sign signif ific ican ant t c conver onversio sion n of of re resou sourc rces es t to o r re eserves.
There There are are num numero erou us s uncertainties uncertainties inherent inherent in in esti estima mating ting ore ore reserv reserves es and and assum assumptions ptions that that are are va valid lid at at t th he e tim time e of of esti estimat matiion on m may ay change change significantly significantly e e Escondida Escondida is is an an eq equity uity a accoun ccounted ted u uni nit t.. when when new new infor inform mation ation be beco comes mes av available.
Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Borax Borax ca capitalised pitalised s st trippi ripping ng costs costs during during the the pro production duction st stage age of of the the mine mine as as par part t of of a a distinct distinct peri period od of of new new fide develo velop pm me ent nt which which was was completed completed New New geol geological ogical da data ta as as well well as as chan changes ges in in the the a abov bove e a assumptions ssumptions may may c ch hange ange the the e ec cono onom mic ic sta stat tus us of of rese reserves rves and and may may, ultimat ultimate ely ly, result result in in t th he e in in 2004.
The The capitalised capitalised c co osts sts wi will ll be be fully fully amortised amortised in in 2035.
2035. reserves reserves being being res rest tated.
S Su uch ch ch changes anges in in reserves reserves cou could ld im impact pact on on d fide epr preciation eciation and and am amortis ortisation ation rates, rates, ass asse et t carry carryin ing g values values, d deferred eferred strippin stripping g As As note noted d in in the the B Basis asis of of pre prep paratio aration, n, IF IFRIC RIC 20 20 will will ch change ange the the a accounti ccountin ng g for for pos post t pro prod du uc ction tion s stripping tripping c co os st ts.
s. Impl Implem ementati entation on o of f the the IFR IFRIIC, C, which which calculations calculations and and p pr rovisions ovisions for for clos close e down down and and res restora torat tion ion cos cost ts.
s. is is mandatory mandatory in in 2013, 2013, may may result result in in a a write write off off to to retained retained earnings earnings of of s so ome me of of the the $ $1.6 1.6 bi billion llion of of deferred deferred s st tripping ripping costs costs in included cluded in in th the e 31 31 D fide ecem cemb ber er iv iv Clo Clos se e d do own, wn, r re esto stor ratio ation n an and d cl cle ea an n up up o ob bligat ligati ions ons 2011 2011 statement statement of of financial financial position.
Provision Provision is is m made ade for for environm environmen ental tal rem reme ediation diation c co ost sts s when when th the e re related lated environmental environmental disturbance disturbance occur occurs s, based based on on th the e n ne et t pr prese esent nt value value o of f esti estimate mated d vi vi R Re ecog cogn nit ition ion of of def defe er rr red ed ta tax x on on m mi in ne eral ral rig right hts s r re ecog cognis nised ed i in n ac acqu quisit isitio ions ns future future costs.
On On transition transition to to E EU U IFRS IFRS with with eff effe ect ct from from 1 1 Janua January ry 2 2004, 004, deferred deferred tax tax was was pr provided ovided in in respect respect of of f fair air value value adjustments adjustments on on a ac cq quisitions uisitions in in prev previous ious The The ultim ultimate ate cost cost of of environmental environmental disturban disturbance ce is is un uncertain certain and and m mana anagem geme en nt t uses uses its its jju udgment dgment and and exp expe erience rience t to o pr provide ovide for for thes these e c co osts sts y yea ear rs s.. N No o oth other er a adj dju us stm tmen ent ts s w wer ere e m ma ad fide t e to th o the e a as ss se et ts s a an nd l d liia abi billiit ties ies recognised recognised in in prior prior year year ac acquisitions.
Accordingly, Accordingly, shareho shareholders lders funds funds were were reduced reduced over over the the life life of of o op pe erations.
Cost Cost esti estimat mate es s can can vary vary in in respon respons se e t to o man many y factors factors includin including g changes changes to to the the relevant relevant lle egal gal re requ quir irements, ements, th the e Gr Gro ou up ps s by by US$720 US$720 million million primarily primarily as as a a res resu ult lt of of deferre deferred d tax tax on on fair fair value value a ad djustments justments to to mining mining rights.
environmental environmental pol policies, icies, the the e em merge ergence nce of of new new re restor storation ation te techniques chniques and and the the effec effect ts s of of inflation.
Experience Experience gained gained at at other other mi mine ne sit site es s is is als also o Deferred Deferred tax tax is is provided provided in in respe respec ct t of of fair fair value value a ad djustmen justment ts s on on acquisitions.
These These a ad djustmen justment ts s may may relat relate e to to asse assets ts such such a as s m mining ining rights rights that, that, in in a a significant significant consideration.
general, general, are are not not eligible eligible for for in inco come me t ta ax x allowanc allowances.
Pr Provision ovision for for d fide eferre ferred d tax tax is is base based d on on t th he e differenc difference e b be et tw ween een the the carry carrying ing value value of of the the asse asset t and and Cost Cost estim estima ates tes are are upda updated ted throug throughout hout the the life life of of th the e o op peration.
The The a accuracy ccuracy range range for for operation operations s with with a a rem rema aining ining life life of of m mo or re e th tha an n t ten en bu but t l les ess s th tha an n its its income income tax tax base base which which m may ay be be nil.
Even Even where where t th here ere is is no no inco income me tax tax bas base e, the the exis existence tence of of a a tax tax bas base e for for ca capital pital gains gains t tax ax purp purposes oses is is not not ta taken ken 40 40 years years is is plus plus or or m miinus nus 30 30 per per cent.
For For op operations erations with with a a rem remaining aining life life of of m mo ore re th than an fi five five but but less less than than t te en n years years the the range range is is 20 20 per per cent.
Operations Operations into into ac account count in in fide determ termiining ning the the def defe erre rred d tax tax provisi provisio on n for for the the mine mineral ral r riights ghts because because it it is is expe expecte cted d tha that t th the e carry carrying ing amount amount w will ill be be recov recove ered red prim primari arily ly must must p produc roduce e a a f fu ull ll dec deco om mm missioning issioning plan plan fi five five y ye ears ars prior prior to to the the estim estima ated ted dat date e of of cl closure.
The The accuracy accuracy r range ange o of f th the e full full dec deco om mm missioning issioning pl plan an is is plus plus through through use use of of the the rights rights and and no not t fr from om dis disposa posal.
l. Also, Also, the the Group Group is is only only entitle entitled d t to o a a fide ded du uction ction for for ca capital pital gains gains tax tax purpos purpose es s if if the the mineral mineral rights rights are are or or m miinus nus 15 15 per per cent.
sold sold or or for form mally ally relinq relinqui uished.
The The exp expe ect cted ed timi timing ng of of exp expe enditure nditure included included in in c co ost st e estimat stimate es s can can a allso so change, change, for for ex exa am mple ple in in res response ponse to to changes changes in in ore ore re reserv serves, es, or or pr product oduction ion rates, rates, For For acquisitions acquisitions af after ter 1 1 January January 2004, 2004, provis provision ion for for deferred deferred tax tax on on ac acqu quis isition ition results results in in a a consequential consequential inc incr rease ease in in the the amo amou un nts ts attribut attributed ed to to g good oodwill will operating operating licenc licence e or or ec economic onomic con cond ditions.
Ex Expenditur penditure e may may occur occur befor before e and and af after ter closure closure and and can can con cont tinue inue for for an an exten extend ded ed perio period d of of ti time me fide depending pending under under EU EU IFRS.
A Am mounts ounts a attributed ttributed to to g goodwill oodwill for for bu business siness comb combinations inations in in 2010 2010 and and 20 2011 11 are are shown shown in in note note 39.
39. on on the the s sp pecific ecific sit site e require requirem ments.
S So om me e ex expendit penditure ure can can conti continue nue into into perpetuity.
Cash Cash flows flows mus must t be be discounte discounted d if if t th his is has has a a ma material terial effec effect t..
The The s se elec lect tion ion of of ap appropriate propriate sources sources on on which which to to base base calcula calculat tio ion n of of th the e r riis sk k f fr re ee d e diis sc cou oun nt t rate rate used used for for this this purpose purpose also also r re equ quires ires judgment.
As As a a result result of of all all o of f the the a above bove fact facto or rs s there there could could be be s siignific gnificant ant adjustments adjustments t to o the the provisi provisio on n for for cl close ose do down, wn, restoration restoration and and clean clean up up costs costs which which would would affect affect future future financial financial results.
148 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 149 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued v Deferral of stripping costs 1 Principal accounting policies continued Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production stage of the mine or pit.
Some mining companies expense these production stage stripping costs as incurred, while others defer such stripping costs.
In operations that experience material fluctuations in the ratio of waste materials to Critical accounting policies and estimates ore or contained minerals on a year to year basis over the life of the mine or pit, deferral of stripping costs reduces the volatility of the cost of stripping i Dual listed company reporting expensed in individual reporting periods.
Those mining companies that expense stripping costs as incurred will therefore report greater volatility in the As explained in detail in the Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements, the consolidated financial statements results of their operations from period to period.
of the Rio Tinto Group deal with the results, assets and liabilities of both of the dual listed companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and their The life of mine or pit waste-to-ore ratio is a function of an individual mines pit design and therefore changes to that design will generally result in subsidiaries.
In other words, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single parent company with their respective shareholders being the changes to the ratio.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on reserves will also have an impact on the life of mine or pit shareholders in that single company.
ratio even if they do not affect the pit design.
Changes to the life of mine or pit ratio are accounted for prospectively.
The 2011 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as amended The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific by an order issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission on 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012.
The 2011 circumstances and the analysis requires judgment: another company could make the determination that a mine is separate or integrated differently financial statements disclose the effect of the adjustments to consolidated EU IFRS profit, consolidated total comprehensive income and consolidated than the Group, even if the fact pattern appears to be similar.
To the extent the determination is different, the resulting accounting would also shareholders funds for the Group that would be required under the version of IFRS that is applicable in Australia, referred to as Australian Accounting be different.
During 2011, production stage stripping costs capitalised by subsidiaries and equity accounted operations were US$307 million and the amount The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial statements, as it most reliably reflects the Groups global business performance.
charged against pre-tax profit was US$50 million 2010: production stage costs exceeded the amounts charged against pre tax profit by US$123 million: ii Impairment review of asset carrying values 2009: production stage costs exceeded the amounts charged against pre-tax profit by US$174 million.
Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant impairment charges or reversals of impairment in a particular year.
There was US$11 million impairment net of reversals of deferred stripping in 2011.
In 2010, there was no impairment of deferred stripping.
In 2009, Where the recoverable amounts of Group cash generating units are assessed by analyses of discounted cash flows, the resulting valuations are US$59 million was written off as part of the Diamonds businesses impairment.
particularly sensitive to changes in estimates of long-term commodity prices, including any carbon element, exchange rates, operating costs and The net book value of stripping costs carried forward in property, plant and equipment and in investments in jointly controlled entities and associates discount rates.
Note 12 outlines the significant judgments and assumptions made in performing impairment testing of non-current assets.
Information about the stripping ratios of the business units, including equity accounted units, that account for the majority of the deferred stripping iii Estimation of asset lives and determination of ore reserve estimates balance at 31 December 2011, along with the year in which deferred stripping is expected to be fully amortised, is set out in the following table: Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the Actual stripping ratio for year Life of mine stripping ratio period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this determination include the existence 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 of contractual rights for unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for a d indefinite periods into the future in view of the Groups future investment intentions.
Kennecott Utah Copper 2026 2.09 2.09 2.13 1.94 1.48 1.21 a Grasberg Joint Venture 2016 3.52 4.15 3.42 2.54 3.13 3.00 Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the b Diavik 2012 0.64 1.21 1.17 0.96 0.95 1.02 Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
The amounts c e Escondida 2058 0.17 0.13 0.11 0.13 0.14 0.14 presented under EU IFRS and AAS are based on the reserves, and in some cases mineral resources, determined under the JORC code.
a Stripping ratios shown are waste to ore.
The estimation of ore reserves requires judgment to interpret available geological data then select an appropriate mining method and establish an b Diaviks stripping ratio is disclosed as bench cubic metre per carat.
The 2011 actual ratio is low because production is now from the bottom of the A418 pit requiring less movement of waste extraction schedule.
It also requires assumptions about future commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs, recovery rates and discount rates per carat.
and, in some instances, the renewal of mining licences.
c Escondidas stripping ratio is based on waste tonnes to pounds of copper mined.
The higher actual ratio in 2011 reflects the lower grade in the year.
d KUCs life of mine stripping ratio has increased because of a strategic review of the Bingham Canyon pit in 2010 which led to a significant conversion of resources to reserves.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly e Escondida is an equity accounted unit.
when new information becomes available.
Rio Tinto Borax capitalised stripping costs during the production stage of the mine as part of a distinct period of new development which was completed New geological data as well as changes in the above assumptions may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the in 2004.
The capitalised costs will be fully amortised in 2035. reserves being restated.
Such changes in reserves could impact on depreciation and amortisation rates, asset carrying values, deferred stripping As noted in the Basis of preparation, IFRIC 20 will change the accounting for post production stripping costs.
Implementation of the IFRIC, which calculations and provisions for close down and restoration costs.
is mandatory in 2013, may result in a write off to retained earnings of some of the $1.6 billion of deferred stripping costs included in the 31 December iv Close down, restoration and clean up obligations 2011 statement of financial position.
Provision is made for environmental remediation costs when the related environmental disturbance occurs, based on the net present value of estimated vi Recognition of deferred tax on mineral rights recognised in acquisitions future costs.
On transition to EU IFRS with effect from 1 January 2004, deferred tax was provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions in previous The ultimate cost of environmental disturbance is uncertain and management uses its judgment and experience to provide for these costs years.
No other adjustments were made to the assets and liabilities recognised in prior year acquisitions.
Accordingly, shareholders funds were reduced over the life of operations.
Cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including changes to the relevant legal requirements, the Groups by US$720 million primarily as a result of deferred tax on fair value adjustments to mining rights.
environmental policies, the emergence of new restoration techniques and the effects of inflation.
Experience gained at other mine sites is also Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in a significant consideration.
general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation.
The accuracy range for operations with a remaining life of more than ten but less than its income tax base which may be nil.
Even where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken 40 years is plus or minus 30 per cent.
For operations with a remaining life of more than five but less than ten years the range is 20 per cent.
Operations into account in determining the deferred tax provision for the mineral rights because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily must produce a full decommissioning plan five years prior to the estimated date of closure.
The accuracy range of the full decommissioning plan is plus through use of the rights and not from disposal.
Also, the Group is only entitled to a deduction for capital gains tax purposes if the mineral rights are or minus 15 per cent.
The expected timing of expenditure included in cost estimates can also change, for example in response to changes in ore reserves, or production rates, For acquisitions after 1 January 2004, provision for deferred tax on acquisition results in a consequential increase in the amounts attributed to goodwill operating licence or economic conditions.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an extended period of time depending under EU IFRS.
Amounts attributed to goodwill for business combinations in 2010 and 2011 are shown in note 39. on the specific site requirements.
Some expenditure can continue into perpetuity.
Cash flows must be discounted if this has a material effect.
The selection of appropriate sources on which to base calculation of the risk free discount rate used for this purpose also requires judgment.
As a result of all of the above factors there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close down, restoration and clean up costs which would affect future financial results.
com 149 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued The The figures figures in in the the belo below w ta table ble only only s sh how ow th the e im impact pact on on underlying underlying and and net net earnings.
Ch Changing anging the the assump assumptions tions woul would d also also h ha ave five an an im impact pact on on the the 1 1 Principal ac Principal accounting policies continued counting policies continued statem statement ent of of fina financial ncial position.
US US$m $mill illiio on n Critical Critical accounting accounting pol policies icies and and estimates estimates continued continued vii vii Cap Capi ital tali isat sati ion on of of exploratio exploration n an and d eval evaluat uati ion on costs costs Sensit Sensitiv ivity ity o of f the the G Gr roup oups s 2 2011 011 unde under rlly yiin ng g and and net net ear earn niin ng gs s to to ch chan anges ges iin n: : Under Under th the e Group Groups s accounting accounting p po olic licy y, explorat exploration ion and and evaluation evaluation expen expend diture iture is is not not capi capita talliis se ed d unfit until il t th he e point point is is reached reached at at wh which ich there there is is a a hig high h degree degree Expected Expected return return on on assets assets of of confid confidence ence in in t th he e projec project ts s viability viability and and it it is is therefo therefor re e consider considered ed pro prob bable able that that f fu utu tur re e ec econ ono om miic c ben benef efiit ts s w wiillll f fllo ow w t to th o the e Group.
inc incr rease ease o of f 1 1 perce percen ntage tage po point int 91 91 decrease decrease of of 1 1 perc percentage entage po point int 91 91 S Su ubsequent bsequent recov recove ery ry of of the the resu resultin lting g carry carrying ing value value depends depends on on suc succ ces essful sful deve develop lopm men ent t or or sale sale of of th the e und undevelo evelop ped ed proje projec ct. t. If If a a projec project t d do oes es n not ot pr prove ove viable, viable, all all irrecov irrecove erable rable c co osts sts a associ ssociated ated with with the the proj project ect n ne et t of of any any rela related ted iim mpairment pairment provisions provisions are are written written off.
Discount Discount rate rate inc incr rease ease o of f 0 0.. 5 5 percentage percentage po point ints s 1 1 vii viii i I Id dent enti ifi ficat cati ion on of of fun func ctio tional final cur curr re en nc ci ie es s decrease decrease of of 0.5 0.5 percentage percentage po point ints s 1 1 The The functional functional cu currency rrency for for each each entity entity in in the the G Gr roup, oup, and and for for jointly jointly controlled controlled enti entities ties an and d associates, associates, is is th the e currency currency of of th the e primary primary econ economic omic environm environment ent in in which which it it operates.
D fide eter term minat ination ion of of fu functional nctional currency currency involves involves signif significant icant judgm judgme en nt t and and other other m miining ning compa compan nies ies may may mak make e dif diff ferent erent Inflation Inflation judgm judgme ents nts based based on on sim simiilar lar facts.
For For m many any of of Rio Rio Tintos Tintos entities, entities, th thei eir r functional functional currency currency is is th the e currency currency of of the the country country iin n which which they they o op per erate.
inc incr rease ease o of f 0 0.. 5 5 percentage percentage po point ints s 33 33 The The G Gr roup oup recons reconsiders iders the the functional functional currency currency of of its its entities entities if if ther there e is is a a cha change nge in in the the underlying underlying transactions, transactions, events events and and c conditions onditions which which d fide eter term mine ine decrease decrease of of 0.5 0.5 percentage percentage po point ints s 31 31 their their primary primary ec eco on nomic omic environme environmen nt.
t. Salary Salary increases increases The The determ determination ination of of functional functional currency currency affe affects cts the the carrying carrying value value of of non-current non-current assets assets included included in in the the statem statement ent of of fina financia ncial l position position and, and, inc incr rease ease o of f 0 0.. 5 5 percentage percentage po point ints s 9 9 as as a a cons consequenc equence e, the the a am mortisation ortisation of of th thos ose e as assets sets included included in in the the inco income me stat statem ement.
It It also also impacts impacts exch exchange ange gains gains and and lo losses sses included included in in the the decrease decrease of of 0.5 0.5 percentage percentage po point ints s 9 9 income income stat statem ement ent.. Demographic Demographic al allowance lowance for for addit additi ional onal future future mort mortality ality improvements improvements particip participa an nts ts ass assu umed med to to have have the the mortalit mortality y ra rates tes of of ind indiiv viiduals duals w wh ho o a ar re e one one y ye ear ar o ollder der 17 17 The The m ma ajority jority of of th the e ex ex-AlcanAlcan bu businesses sinesses acquired acquired by by the the Group Group in in 2007 2007 changed changed from from U US S functional functional currency currency to to llo ocal cal functional functional c currency urrency for for a accoun ccounti ting ng purposes purposes on on 1 1 Jan Janu uary ary 2011.
The The integration integration of of the the exex-Alcan Alcan business businesses es with with the the e exis xisting ting aluminium aluminium busine business ss of of R Rio io Tinto Tinto c ch han ange ged d the the ec econo onom mic ic particip participa an nts ts ass assu umed med to to have have the the mortalit mortality y ra rates tes of of ind indiiv viiduals duals w wh ho o a ar re e one one y ye ear ar y yo ounger unger 17 17 environment environment f fo or r t th hese ese ex ex-AlcanAlcan businesses businesses sinc since e a ac cquisition quisition in in severa several l ways.
In In particul particular, ar, the the divest divestm me ent nt of of th the e majority majority of of t the he exex-Alcan Alcan do down wnstrea stream m x x R Re ec cov ove erability rability of of potent potentia ial l d fide ef fe err rred ed ta tax x ass asse et ts s operations, operations, th the e le legal gal reorganisati reorganisations ons that that hav have e transf transferred erred ownership ownership of of certain certain ex ex-AlcanAlcan companies companies with within in the the Rio Rio Tinto Tinto grou group p and and the the c ce entralisation ntralisation The The Group Group has has ca carried rried forward forward llo oss sses, es, mainly mainly in in UK, UK, Fre Fren nch, ch, Canad Canadiian, an, US US an and d Aust Australian ralian taxable taxable entities, entities, that that have have the the po pot te enti ntial al to to reduc reduce e ta tax x of of certain certain functi functions ons such such as as procurement, procurement, pe pensions nsions and, and, shipping shipping have have brought brought their their bu business siness mo model del cl clos oser er to to that that f fo or r the the rest rest of of Rio Rio Tinto Tintos s operations, operations, pay paym ments ents in in future future y ye ears.
Deferre Deferred d tax tax asse assets ts have have b been een rec reco ogn gnised ised o on n tax tax loss losses, es, and and other other t te em mporary porary d diifferences, fferences, to to the the exten extent t their their recov recove ery ry is is the the m majority ajority of of wh which ich have have the the local local currenc currency y as as their their f functional unctional currency.
In In addition addition, whilst whilst financing financing is is only only a a secon second dary ary iindicator ndicator of of functional functional probabl probable, e, having having regard regard to to the the proje projec cted ted future future taxa taxabl ble e profit profits s of of these these t ta axable xable entities.
currency, currency, the the m mag agn nitude itude of of U US S dolla dollar r fide deno nom miinated nated debt, debt, which which has has now now been been largely largely repa repaid, id, was was a a factor factor in in th the e original original deter determ min ination ation of of U US S fu functional nctional currency currency at at acqui acquisition.
The The p possible ossible tax tax assets, assets, ie ie the the a am mounts ounts that that woul would d be be re recognised cognised if if t th here ere were were no no n ne ee ed d to to assess assess rec reco ov five erability rability on on loss losses es and and other other tempor temporary ary difference differences s in in these these t tax axa able ble entities entities, ar are e shown shown in in the the tabl table e b below elow and and total totalle led d U US S$3,248 $3,248 million million at at 3 31 1 fide December cember 2011 2011 2010: 2010: US US$2, $2,880 880 million million.. ix ix Est Esti im ma atio tion n of of l li iabi abil lit ities ies fo for r p po ost st r re eti tire rem me ent nt cost costs s Of Of th these, ese, US$2,451 US$2,451 million million have have been been recognised recognised as as deferre deferred d tax tax a assets ssets 2010: 2010: US$2,413 US$2,413 milli million, on, leaving leaving US$797 US$797 million million 2 2010: 010: US$467 US$467 million million The The value value of of the the Group Groups s liabilities liabilities for for pos postt-retirem retireme ent nt benefits benefits will will ulti ultimately mately dep depe end nd u upon pon the the a am mount ount o of f benefits benefits paid paid out out..
This This in in turn turn will will depend depend unrecognised, unrecognised, as as recovery recovery is is not not considered considered proba probable.
These These a am mounts ounts exclude exclude capi capital tal losses losses which which can can on only ly be be recover recovere ed d a ag gainst ainst future future capital capital gains.
upon upon the the future future p pa ay y increases increases rec rece eived ived by by m me em mb bers ers of of final final pay pay p plans, lans, the the lev leve el l of of in inflation flation for for th those ose ben bene efits fits that that are are subj subje ect ct to to s so ome me f fo orm rm of of inflation inflation The The 2010 2010 c co ompar mparatives atives have have been been r re estated stated to to include include all all other other te tempora mporar ry y differences, differences, in in addition addition to to tax tax los losses, ses, unless unless the the ta taxa xable ble entity entity has has n ne et t prote protection ction and and how how llo ong ng indi individuals viduals live live in in retire retiremen ment t.. deferred deferred tax tax lia liab bilities.
This This re reflects flects an an increase increase in in the the am amount ount of of r re ecog cogn nis ised ed def defe erred rred tax tax assets assets for for t te em mpor porary ary differences differences o ot th her er than than loss losses, es, a an nd d the the Most Most of of the the Group Groups s defined defined benefit benefit pension pension plans plans are are clos closed ed to to ne new w entran entrants ts and and mos most t o of f the the liabilities liabilities rel rela ate te t to o f fo ormer rmer e em mp plo loy yees.
As As a a cons consequence, equence, fact fact that that similar similar ju judgem dgements ents are are req requ uired ired to to be be ma made fide about about the the re recover covery y of of fide deductibl ductible e t te em mp po orary rary differenc differences es in in entities entities with with ta tax x loss losses es as as thos those e relating relating the the carry carrying ing value value of of th the e Gr Group oups s p po os st-retire t-retirement ment liabi liabilities lities is is less less sensit sensitive ive to to the the as assump sumption tion about about future future salary salary increases increases t th han an it it is is to to the the as assumption sumption to to th the e loss losses es the them mselv selves.
regarding regarding future future inflation.
The The assum assumpti ption on regarding regarding future future inflat inflation ion is is derived derived using using m mark arket et yiel yields ds on on  linked ed instru instrum men ents ts w wh her ere e pos poss siibl ble, e, US US$ $ mil millliio on n Re Rec co ogn gnis ised ed Un Unre reco cogn gnis ised ed combined combined with with co consens nsensus us views views o on n future future in inflation.
T This his assumpti assumption on is is derive derived d using using the the same same proc process ess a at t e ea ach ch reporting reporting d da at te e.. Ch Cha an ng ges es t to th o the e At At 31 31 fide Decem cemb be er r 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2 2011 011 2010 2010 assumption assumption theref therefore ore refle reflec ct t ch change anges s to to the the mark market et a an nd d consensu consensus s vie view ws s of of fu future ture inflation.
U UK K 2 229 29 232 232 nil nil n nil il The The Group Group review reviews s the the a ac ctual tual mort mortality ality rates rates of of reti retir rees ees in in its its m major ajor pension pension p plans lans on on a a regular regular basis basis and and uses uses thes these e rate rates s t to o set set its its current current m mo ortality rtality a a Fra Fran nce ce 5 515 15 859 859 7 797 97 467 467 assumptions.
It It al also so allo allows ws for for future future im improve provem ments ents in in mortalit mortality y having having regard regard to to stan standard dard impr improve ovem ment ent sc scales ales in in each each count country ry.. b b Canada Canada 7 746 46 674 674 nil nil n nil il The The discount discount ra rate te used used t to o value value p po os st t-retireretirem ment ent liabilities liabilities is is se set t in in acc acco ordance rdance with with IAS19 IAS19 P Post ost r re etirem tireme ent nt benefits benefits bas base ed d u up pon on the the y yiields elds on on high high U US S 3 322 22 317 317 nil nil n nil il quality quality corpora corporat te e bonds bonds in in th the e relev releva ant nt currency currency and and of of a a duration duration cons consistent istent with with th the e nature nature of of the the liabilities.
The The discount discount ra rate te will will vary vary from from o on ne e Aust Austral raliia a 6 639 39 331 331 nil nil n nil il period period to to an another other in in line line wi with th m mo ove vements ments in in corp corporat orate e b bo ond nd y yiields, elds, but but at at any any given given m me ea asurem sureme ent nt date date th there ere is is relativ relative ely ly little little estima estimation tion unc uncertainty ertainty.. Total Total 2, 2,45 451 1 2, 2,413 413 7 797 97 467 467 Details Details of of the the key key assumptions, assumptions, ho how w they they have have m mo oved ved since since the the previou previous s stat statem ement ent of of financial financial position position da date, te, and and the the sensitivit sensitivity y of of the the carry carrying ing value value a a The The amoun amount t re recognised cognised t ta akes kes a accou ccoun nt t of of legislation legislation ch changes anges in int trod roduce uced d in in 20 2011 11 w wh hic ich h rest restri ric ct ts s the the recovery recovery of of losses.
to to changes changes in in the the assumptions, assumptions, are are set set out out in in not note e 47.
47. b b No No capi capit ta al l losses losses have have b been een re recognised cognised as as d fide ef fe er rr red ed t ta ax x asset assets s as as t th here ere a ar re e no no u un nrealised realised f fore oreign ign exch excha an nge ge gains gains giving giving r ris ise e to to c capit apita al l g ga ains ins 201 2010: 0: US US$147 $147 mi million llion w wh hich ich were were recoverable recoverable ag again ains st t capital capital gains gains arising arising from from u un nrealised realised foreig foreign n ex exchang change e g ga ains.
For For 2011 2011 the the char charge ge against against income income for for post post retirement retirement benefits benefits net net of of tax tax and and non non c co ontrolling ntrolling interests interests w was as US$445 US$445 million million.. Th This is charge charge included included x xi i C Co ont nti in nge genc ncie ies s both both pension pension and and post post retirement retirement h he ealthcare althcare benefits benefits..
The The charge charge is is ne net t of of the the expe expect cte ed d return return on on asse assets ts which which was was U US S$56 $561 1 milli million on aft after er tax tax and and Disc Disclosu losure re is is m made ade of of m materi aterial al cont contiin ngent gent lliiab abil ilitie ities s u un nle less ss the the poss possib ibil ility ity o of f any any loss loss ar aris isin ing g iis s conside consider red ed rem remo ote te.. Conti Contin nge genc ncies ies a ar re e disclosed disclosed iin n note note 3 33 3.. nonnon-controlling controlling in interests.
xi xii i Bas Basi is s of of c co ons nsolidat olidation ion In In calculating calculating the the 2011 2011 expense, expense, the the average average fu future ture increase increase in in c co ompen mpensation sation lev leve els ls was was assumed assumed to to be be 3.
3.7 7 per per cent cent an and d thi this s wil will l be be 3.4 3.4 per per c ce ent nt In In dete deter rm mining ining whether whether the the Gr Group oup h ha as s contro control, l, joint joint control control or or signific significant ant influence, influence, the the Group Group cons considers iders whether whether other other parties parties hold hold five veto to rights rights for for 2012.
The The av average erage disc discount ount rate rate used used was was 5.2 5.2 per per cent cent and and the the aver average age discount discount rate rate used used in in 2012 2012 will will be be 4.3 4.3 per per c ce ent nt refle reflecting cting the the net net iim mpac pact t over over significant significant o op perating erating and and financial financial deci decisions.
In In s so ome me instances, instances, the the Grou Group p has has c co ontr ntro ol l of of an an entity entity where where o ot ther her parties parties o own wn more more than than on one e half, half, of of changes changes in in c co orporate rporate bon bond d y yiield elds s in in the the re regions gions w wh here ere the the Group Group ha has s pension pension oblig obligati atio ons.
or or in in som some e ca cases ses all, all, of of the the voting voting ri rights ghts of of an an entity entity b bu ut t th the e Group Group can can control control those those voti voting ng rights rights through through a a contractual contractual arr arrangement.
In In such such The The weighted weighted average average expected expected lo long ng term term ra rate te of of return return on on assets assets used used to to d determine etermine t th he e 2011 2011 pensio pension n cost cost wa was s 5.
This This wil willl decrease decrease to to 5 5.. 0 0 p pe er r cent cent circumstances, circumstances, the the Grou Group p c co onsiders nsiders, in in pa particular, rticular, whether whether it it obtains obtains be benefits, nefits, includ including ing non-financial non-financial benef benefiits, ts, from from its its po powe wer r to to g go overn vern the the financial financial for for 20 2012 12.. T Th hiis s decr decrease ease res resu ults lts m ma ain inlly y f fr rom om lower lower go gover vern nm me ent nt bond bond yie yiellds ds in in m mo ost st te terr rritor itories ies wh whic ich h drive drives s the the a as ssumed sumed return return on on o ot ther her a asset sset cla classes sses.. and and op operating erating poli polic cies ies of of the the entity entity.. Based Based on on th the e kno know wn n changes changes in in ass assu umptions mptions n note oted d a above bove and and other other expect expected ed circumsta circumstan nces, ces, the the iim mpac pact t of of p po ost st re retirem tireme ent nt costs costs on on the the Gro Grou up ps s In In some some case cases, s, th the e Grou Group p makes makes ac acquisitions quisitions over over a a p pe eriod riod of of day days s, we wee ek ks s or or mon mont ths.
It It is is a a m ma att tter er of of judg judgment ment as as t to o wh wheth ethe er r th the e pay paym ments ents mad made e EU EU IFRS IFRS net net earnings earnings in in 2012 2012 would would be be an an expected expected iin ncrease crease of of US US$7 $76 6 million million to to US$5 US$521 21 million.
Th The e ac actu tual al charge charge may may be be impacte impacted d by by o ot ther her factors factors during during this this period period form form part part of of on one e t tr ransa ansaction ction or or a a nu numb mber er of of s se eparat parate e transactions transactions..
In In the the lat latt ter er cas case e, the the t tr ransactions ansactions will will b be e trea treated ted as as an an a ac cquisition quisition that that cannot cannot b be e pr predicte edicted, d, such such as as t th he e effe effect ct of of chang change es s in in ben bene efits fits and and exchange exchange rat rate es.
The The eff effe ect ct on on the the financial financial stat statem ements ents of of t tr reatm eatment ent as as an an ac acquisition quisition in in st stages ages is is that that any any ex exces cess s of of c co onsideration nsideration over over id identifiable entifiable net net asse assets ts for for trans transactions actions af after ter t the he acquisitio acquisition n of of c co ontrol ntrol will will b be e taken taken to to equity equity..
If If the the tran transacti sactio ons ns were were treate treated d as as o on ne e acquisition acquisition the then n all all such such exc exce ess ss The The tab tablle e below below s se ets ts out out the the pote potential ntial c change hange in in the the Gr Groups oups 20 201 11 1 n ne et t earnings earnings after after ta tax x and and outside outside interests interests that that w wo ould uld res result ult fro from m hy hypot pothetical hetical consideration consideration wou would ld b be e trea treate ted d as as g good oodwill.
In In additio addition n, acquisitions acquisitions of of shares shares after after the the d da ate te on on which which con cont trol rol is is gained gained and and w which hich are are accounted accounted f fo or r changes changes to to pos post t r re etirem tireme ent nt assu assump mptions tions and and es estima timat te es.
s. The The sensitiviti sensitivitie es s are are vie view we ed d for for each each assu assumption mption iin n isolation isolation alth although ough a a change change in in on one e in in stages stages are are sh sho ow wn n within within the the Fin Financing ancing section section of of the the cash cash fl flow ow ra rather ther than than the the In Investi vestin ng g sect section.
assumption assumption is is like likely ly to to result result in in so som me e offs offset et elsewh elsewhere ere.. Factors Factors which which are are considered considered in in th this is judgment judgment are are th the e length length of of tim time e b be et tween ween the the a ac cquisition quisition dat date e and and co com mp pletion letion of of th the e tran transac saction tion and and wheth whethe er, r, at at the the tim time e of of the the initial initial share share purchase, purchase, it it was was clear clear w wh hat at perc percentage entage o ow wnership nership would would ul ultimat timate ely ly be be ob obtained.
150 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 151 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued The figures in the below table only show the impact on underlying and net earnings.
Changing the assumptions would also have an impact on the 1 Principal accounting policies continued statement of financial position.
US$million Critical accounting policies and estimates continued vii Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs Sensitivity of the Groups 2011 underlying and net earnings to changes in: Under the Groups accounting policy, exploration and evaluation expenditure is not capitalised until the point is reached at which there is a high degree Expected return on assets of confidence in the projects viability and it is therefore considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
increase of 1 percentage point 91 decrease of 1 percentage point 91 Subsequent recovery of the resulting carrying value depends on successful development or sale of the undeveloped project.
If a project does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are written off.
Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 1 viii Identification of functional currencies decrease of 0.5 percentage points 1 The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for jointly controlled entities and associates, is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Determination of functional currency involves significant judgment and other mining companies may make different Inflation judgments based on similar facts.
For many of Rio Tintos entities, their functional currency is the currency of the country in which they operate.
increase of 0.5 percentage points 33 The Group reconsiders the functional currency of its entities if there is a change in the underlying transactions, events and conditions which determine decrease of 0.5 percentage points 31 their primary economic environment.
Salary increases The determination of functional currency affects the carrying value of non-current assets included in the statement of financial position and, increase of 0.5 percentage points 9 as a consequence, the amortisation of those assets included in the income statement.
It also impacts exchange gains and losses included in the decrease of 0.5 percentage points 9 income statement.
Demographic allowance for additional future mortality improvements participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year older 17 The majority of the ex-Alcan businesses acquired by the Group in 2007 changed from US functional currency to local functional currency for accounting purposes on 1 January 2011.
The integration of the ex-Alcan businesses with the existing aluminium business of Rio Tinto changed the economic participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 17 environment for these ex-Alcan businesses since acquisition in several ways.
In particular, the divestment of the majority of the ex-Alcan downstream x Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets operations, the legal reorganisations that have transferred ownership of certain ex-Alcan companies within the Rio Tinto group and the centralisation The Group has carried forward losses, mainly in UK, French, Canadian, US and Australian taxable entities, that have the potential to reduce tax of certain functions such as procurement, pensions and, shipping have brought their business model closer to that for the rest of Rio Tintos operations, payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised on tax losses, and other temporary differences, to the extent their recovery is the majority of which have the local currency as their functional currency.
In addition, whilst financing is only a secondary indicator of functional probable, having regard to the projected future taxable profits of these taxable entities.
currency, the magnitude of US dollar denominated debt, which has now been largely repaid, was a factor in the original determination of US functional currency at acquisition.
The possible tax assets, ie the amounts that would be recognised if there were no need to assess recoverability on losses and other temporary differences in these taxable entities, are shown in the table below and totalled US$3,248 million at 31 December 2011 2010: US$2,880 million.
ix Estimation of liabilities for post retirement costs Of these, US$2,451 million have been recognised as deferred tax assets 2010: US$2,413 million, leaving US$797 million 2010: US$467 million The value of the Groups liabilities for post-retirement benefits will ultimately depend upon the amount of benefits paid out.
This in turn will depend unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
These amounts exclude capital losses which can only be recovered against future capital gains.
upon the future pay increases received by members of final pay plans, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation The 2010 comparatives have been restated to include all other temporary differences, in addition to tax losses, unless the taxable entity has net protection and how long individuals live in retirement.
This reflects an increase in the amount of recognised deferred tax assets for temporary differences other than losses, and the Most of the Groups defined benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants and most of the liabilities relate to former employees.
As a consequence, fact that similar judgements are required to be made about the recovery of deductible temporary differences in entities with tax losses as those relating the carrying value of the Groups post-retirement liabilities is less sensitive to the assumption about future salary increases than it is to the assumption to the losses themselves.
The assumption regarding future inflation is derived using market yields on inflation-linked instruments where possible, US$ million Recognised Unrecognised combined with consensus views on future inflation.
This assumption is derived using the same process at each reporting date.
Changes to the At 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 assumption therefore reflect changes to the market and consensus views of future inflation.
UK 229 232 nil nil The Group reviews the actual mortality rates of retirees in its major pension plans on a regular basis and uses these rates to set its current mortality a France 515 859 797 467 assumptions.
It also allows for future improvements in mortality having regard to standard improvement scales in each country.
b Canada 746 674 nil nil The discount rate used to value post-retirement liabilities is set in accordance with IAS19 Post retirement benefits based upon the yields on high US 322 317 nil nil quality corporate bonds in the relevant currency and of a duration consistent with the nature of the liabilities.
The discount rate will vary from one Australia 639 331 nil nil period to another in line with movements in corporate bond yields, but at any given measurement date there is relatively little estimation uncertainty.
Total 2,451 2,413 797 467 Details of the key assumptions, how they have moved since the previous statement of financial position date, and the sensitivity of the carrying value a The amount recognised takes account of legislation changes introduced in 2011 which restricts the recovery of losses.
to changes in the assumptions, are set out in note 47. b No capital losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets as there are no unrealised foreign exchange gains giving rise to capital gains 2010: US$147 million which were recoverable against capital gains arising from unrealised foreign exchange gains.
For 2011 the charge against income for post retirement benefits net of tax and non controlling interests was US$445 million.
This charge included xi Contingencies both pension and post retirement healthcare benefits.
The charge is net of the expected return on assets which was US$561 million after tax and Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility of any loss arising is considered remote.
Contingencies are disclosed in note 33. non-controlling interests.
xii Basis of consolidation In calculating the 2011 expense, the average future increase in compensation levels was assumed to be 3.7 per cent and this will be 3.4 per cent In determining whether the Group has control, joint control or significant influence, the Group considers whether other parties hold veto rights for 2012.
The average discount rate used was 5.2 per cent and the average discount rate used in 2012 will be 4.3 per cent reflecting the net impact over significant operating and financial decisions.
In some instances, the Group has control of an entity where other parties own more than one half, of changes in corporate bond yields in the regions where the Group has pension obligations.
or in some cases all, of the voting rights of an entity but the Group can control those voting rights through a contractual arrangement.
In such The weighted average expected long term rate of return on assets used to determine the 2011 pension cost was 5.9 per cent.
This will decrease to 5.0 per cent circumstances, the Group considers, in particular, whether it obtains benefits, including non-financial benefits, from its power to govern the financial for 2012.
This decrease results mainly from lower government bond yields in most territories which drives the assumed return on other asset classes.
and operating policies of the entity.
Based on the known changes in assumptions noted above and other expected circumstances, the impact of post retirement costs on the Groups In some cases, the Group makes acquisitions over a period of days, weeks or months.
It is a matter of judgment as to whether the payments made EU IFRS net earnings in 2012 would be an expected increase of US$76 million to US$521 million.
The actual charge may be impacted by other factors during this period form part of one transaction or a number of separate transactions.
In the latter case, the transactions will be treated as an acquisition that cannot be predicted, such as the effect of changes in benefits and exchange rates.
The effect on the financial statements of treatment as an acquisition in stages is that any excess of consideration over identifiable net assets for transactions after the acquisition of control will be taken to equity.
If the transactions were treated as one acquisition then all such excess The table below sets out the potential change in the Groups 2011 net earnings after tax and outside interests that would result from hypothetical consideration would be treated as goodwill.
In addition, acquisitions of shares after the date on which control is gained and which are accounted for changes to post retirement assumptions and estimates.
The sensitivities are viewed for each assumption in isolation although a change in one in stages are shown within the Financing section of the cash flow rather than the Investing section.
assumption is likely to result in some offset elsewhere.
Factors which are considered in this judgment are the length of time between the acquisition date and completion of the transaction and whether, at the time of the initial share purchase, it was clear what percentage ownership would ultimately be obtained.
com 151 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2 2 Operating segments Operating segments US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Re Rest state ated d Capital Capital expenditure expenditure 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 a a b b Gross Gross sales sales reve revenue nue US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m IIro ron n O Ore re 4 4, 7 757 57 1, 1,716 716 2, 2,148 148 c c IIro ron n O Ore re 2 29, 9,909 909 24 24,024, 024 12 12,598, 598 Alumi Alumin nium ium 1 1, 9 957 57 963 963 1, 1,300 300 c c Alumi Alumin nium ium 1 12, 2,159 159 11 11,313, 313 8, 8,701 701 Copper Copper 3 3, 7 784 84 990 990 587 587 Copper Copper 7 7, 6 634 34 7, 7,797 797 6, 6,220 220 Energy Energy 1 1, 3 327 27 685 685 510 510 Energy Energy 7 7, 3 327 27 5, 5,652 652 4, 4,869 869 D Diia amon monds ds & & Mi Min ne era rals ls 6 639 39 300 300 519 519 c c D Diia amon monds ds & & Mi Min ne era rals ls 3 3, 2 220 20 3, 3,035 035 2, 2,618 618 O Ot ther her operat operatio ions ns 7 729 29 570 570 760 760 c c O Ot ther her operat operatiio ons ns 8 8, 2 246 46 10 10,151, 151 9, 9,897 897 Reportable Reportable segm segments ents total total 1 13, 3,193 193 5, 5,224 224 5, 5,824 824 Reportable Reportable segm segments ents total total 6 68, 8,495 495 61 61,972, 972 44 44,903, 903 O Ot ther her item items s 2 251 51 75 75 54 54 Inte Inter-segment r-segment t tr ra an nsactio sactions ns 2, 2,81 817 7 2 2,758, 758 2 2,169, 169 Less: Less: c ca api pita tal l expenditure expenditure of of equit equity y acc accounted units ounted units 1, 1,14 146 6 746 746 522 522 Product Product Group Group To Total tal Capital Capital expenditure expenditure per per Financial Financial information information by by business business unit unit 1 12, 2,298 298 4, 4,553 553 5, 5,356 356 6 65, 5,678 678 59 59,214, 214 42 42,734, 734 Items Items excl excluded uded fro from m underl underly ying ing ea earnings rnings 5 56 6 Add: Add: Proceeds Proceeds f fr ro om m disposal disposal of of p pr rop operty, erty, pla plan nt a t an nd equipment d equipment 3 37 7 38 38 32 32 Gross Gross sales sales reve revenue nue 6 65, 5,622 622 59 59,214, 214 42 42,734, 734 Capital Capital expenditure expenditure per per statement statement of of cash cash flow flow 1 12, 2,335 335 4, 4,591 591 5, 5,388 388 S Sh hare are of of eq equit uity y acc acco ounted unted u un niits ts a an nd d a ad djustm justme ent nts s fo for r iin ntr traa-subs subsidi idiar ary y e equ quit ity y accounted accounted un units its s sales ales 5, 5,08 085 5 4 4,043, 043 2 2,472, 472 Rio Rio Tintos Tintos m management anagement structure structure is is base based d on on the the principal principal produ product ct gr groups oups sho show wn n ab abov ove e tog together ether wi with th th the e globa global l functions functions that that s sup upport port t the he business.
Consolidated Consolidated sales sales revenue revenue per per income income statement statement 6 60, 0,537 537 55 55,171, 171 40 40,262, 262 The The chief chief ex executiv ecutive e of of each each produc product t group group report reports s t to o t th he e Chief Chief ex executive ecutive of of Rio Rio Tin Tinto.
The The Chief Chief executiv executive e of of Rio Rio Tinto Tinto m mo onitor nitors s the the perfor performanc mance e of of each each product product group group ba based sed on on a a num number ber of of m me easures asures inclu includ diing ng capital capital expe expen nd diture iture and and opera operati ting ng cash cash flows, flows, with with Underlying Underlying earnings earnings be being ing the the k ke ey y financial financial d d Depreciation Depreciation and and amortisation amortisation performa performanc nce e indic indicator.
F Finance inance c co ost sts s and and ne net t d fide ebt bt are are manage managed d on on a a group group basis.
IIro ron n O Ore re 1 1, 2 203 03 993 993 763 763 Generally Generally, busine business ss units units are are all allo oca cated ted to to pr produc oduct t gro grou ups ps base based d on on thei their r primary primary produc product t..
The The Energy Energy pro prod du uct ct group group includ include es s bo bot th h coal coal a and nd ur uranium anium c c Alumi Alumin nium ium 1 1, 0 098 98 1, 1,062 062 1, 1,099 099 businesses.
The The D Diiamonds amonds & & Minerals Minerals produc product t group group inc includes ludes business businesses es wi with th produc product ts s s su uch ch as as bora borat tes es an and d titanium titanium dioxide dioxide fee feed dst sto oc ck k toge toget th he er r with with Copper Copper 5 538 38 568 568 543 543 diamonds diamonds o op perati eratio ons.
The The Co Copper pper g gr roup oup includes includes ce cert rtain ain gold gold o op peration erations s in in addition addition to to co copper.
Energy Energy 5 520 20 367 367 296 296 The The financial financial inform information ation by by business business unit unit pr provide ovided d o on n pages pages 209 209 to to 21 212 2 of of th these ese fina financi ncia al l stat statem ements ents pro prov vide ide ad additional ditional vo vollunt untary ary disclosure disclosure which which the the D Diia amon monds ds & & Mi Min ne era rals ls 3 337 37 268 268 290 290 c c Group Group considers considers iis s useful useful t to o the the us users ers of of the the financial financial stat statem ements.
O Ot ther her operat operatiio ons ns 5 535 35 587 587 765 765 Reportable Reportable segm segments ents total total 4 4, 2 231 31 3, 3,845 845 3, 3,756 756 a a Gro Gross ss sa sale les s revenue revenue O Ot ther her item items s 1 113 13 114 114 111 111 Product Product group group gro gross ss sales sales r re evenue venue iin ncludes cludes th the e Group Groups s share share of of the the s sa ales les revenue revenue of of e eq quity uity accounte accounted d u un nits its af after ter adjustin adjusting g for for sales sales to to subs subsidiaries.
Les Less s:: dep depr rec eciia ati tio on n a an nd a d am mor ort tiis sa at tiio on n of of equ equiit ty y a ac cc cou oun nted u ted un niits ts 52 527 7 522 522 440 440 Rio Rio Tinto Tintos s share share of of the the sales sales reve reven nu ue e of of equity equity acc acco ounted unted units units is is d fide ed du ucted cted in in a arriving rriving a at t cons consolidated olidated sal sale es s revenue revenue as as sho show wn n on on the the fac face e Depreciation Depreciation and and amortisation amortisation per per note note 4 4 3 3, 8 817 17 3, 3,437 437 3, 3,427 427 of of the the incom income e s st tat atem ement.
Intersegment Intersegment tran transactions sactions rela relate te to to sales sales b be etw tween een the the Aluminiu Aluminium m Produ Product ct Group Group and and Con Cons stellium tellium f formerly ormerly Alcan Alcan En Engineered gineered Produc Products ts e e Underlying Underlying earning earnings s and and Other Other Alum Alumin inum um operations operations wh whose ose resu resullt ts s are are r re eporte ported d within within Oth Othe er r op operations.
IIro ron n O Ore re 1 12, 2,853 853 10 10,189, 189 4, 4,126 126 Gross Gross sal sale es s rev reve en nu ue e includes includes the the sa sales les reve revenue nue of of equity equity a accoun ccount ted ed units units after after a ad djusting justing for for sales sales to to subsi subsid diaries iaries of of U US S$5, $5,56 564 4 million million c c Alumi Alumin nium ium 4 442 42 611 611 260 260 2010: 2010: US$4,254 US$4,254 million, million, 2009: 2009: US$ US$3,197 3,197 million million in in a addition ddition to to c co onsol nsoliid dated ated sales sales reven revenu ue.
e. Consol Consolidated idated sales sales rev reve enue nue incl includes udes subsidiary subsidiary Copper Copper 1 1, 9 932 32 2, 2,530 530 1, 1,874 874 sales sales to to equity equity accounted accounted units units which which ar are e not not include included d in in gross gross sal sale es s re revenue.
Energy Energy 1 1, 0 074 74 1, 1,187 187 1, 1,167 167 D Diia amon monds ds & & Mi Min ne era rals ls 2 252 52 328 328 800 800 b b Reclassif Reclassifiication cation of of sundry sundry re revenues venues c c O Ot ther her operat operatiio ons ns 12 120 0 237 237 232 232 Following Following th the e c co ontinued ntinued integration integration and and orga organisation nisational al restructure restructure of of Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Alum Alumin inium ium and and ado adoption ption of of the the integrat integrated ed op operat erations ions ap approach proach Reportable Reportable segm segments ents total total 1 16, 6,433 433 15 15,082, 082 7, 7,475 475 see see financial financial information information by by bu business siness unit unit on on pag page es s 2 209 09 to to 212, 212, sales sales of of surplu surplus s power power and and carbon carbon produ products cts used used in in the the s sm mel elti ting ng process, process, previously previously Inte Inter-segment r-segment t tr ra an nsactio sactions ns 4 40 0 15 15 21 21 included included within within sa sales les revenue, revenue, hav have e been been tr treat eate ed d as as a a credit credit t to o operatin operating g costs.
In In ad additio dition n, third third party party co com mm mo od dity ity swap swap arrang arrangements ements for for deli delivery very and and receipt receipt of of s sm mel elter ter grade grade alu alum mina ina are are offs offset et within within op operating erating costs.
C Co or rr responding esponding a am mou ounts nts in in com comp parativ arative e periods periods have have been been recl reclassified assified ac accordingly.
O Ot ther her item items s 59 593 3 554 554 577 577 This This reclassification reclassification is is consid considered ered t to o im improve prove the the rel refile evance vance of of th the e financial financial state statem men ents ts f fo or r users.
The The im imp pa act ct of of the the reclassi reclassif fication ication on on pr previously eviously Explorat Exploratio ion n and and e ev valuat aluatiion on not not att attr ributed ibuted to to product product gro grou ups ps 10 102 2 52 52 5 5 reported reported c co onsolidated nsolidated sales sales r re evenu venue e is: is: 31 31 December December 2010: 2010: US$1, US$1,405 405 million million 31 31 D fide ecemb cember er 2009: 2009: US$1, US$1,563 563 million million..
The The iim mpac pact t on on previou previous sly ly reporte reported d N Ne et t fina finance nce cost costs s 22 229 9 474 474 584 584 gross gross sales sales r re even venu ue e is: is: 31 31 Dec Dece ember mber 2010: 2010: US$1,109 US$1,109 million million 31 31 Dec Dece ember mber 2009: 2009: US$1, US$1,302 302 million.
Underlying Underlying earning earnings s 1 15, 5,549 549 13 13,987, 987 6, 6,298 298 f f Items Items excl excluded uded fro from m Underl Underlying ying earnings earnings 9, 9,72 723 3 251 251 1 1,426, 426 c c Other Other ope oper rations ations Aluminium Aluminium Net Net earnings earnings attri attrib butable utable to to o ow wners ners of of Rio Rio Tinto Tinto per per income income statemen statement t 5 5, 8 826 26 14 14,238, 238 4, 4,872 872 Aluminium Aluminium is is now now present presente ed d on on an an iin ntegrated tegrated op operati eratio ons ns basis basis s sp plitting litting activities activities bet betw wee een n Bauxite Bauxite and and Alumina, Alumina, Primary Primary Metal Metal an and d Oth Othe er r Inte Integrated grated Opera Operat tions.
Oth Othe er r operations operations now now include include Ri Rio o Tintos Tintos interests interests in in Pa Paci cific fic Aluminium Aluminium and and Other Other Alu Alum minium.
2010 2010 c co omparativ mparative e infor information mation has has been been Tax Tax charge charge adjuste adjusted d a accor ccord dingly.
IIro ron n O Ore re 5 5, 9 939 39 4, 4,602 602 1, 1,868 868 c c d d Depreciation Depreciation and and amort amortisation isation Alumi Alumin nium ium 6 64 4 36 36 385 385 P Pr rodu oduc ct g t gr rou oup p d fide epr prec eciia ati tion on a an nd d a am mor ortisation tisation to totals tals in include clude 100 100 p pe er r cen cent t of of su subsid bsidiaries iaries d fide epreciation preciation an and d a am mortisation ortisation and and in incl clude ude Rio Rio Tinto Tintos s share share Copper Copper 6 626 26 705 705 582 582 of of the the fide depreciatio preciation n and and am amortisa ortisatio tion n of of e eq quity uity accou accoun nted ted units.
Rio Rio Tinto Tintos s share share of of the the depre deprec cia iation tion and and amortisa amortisation tion charge charge o of f equity equity accounted accounted units units Energy Energy 4 496 96 537 537 521 521 is is deduc deduct ted ed to to arrive arrive at at fide depreciation preciation and and a am mortisation ortisation excluding excluding equity equity a accounte ccounted d units units as as sh shown own in in not note e 4.
These These figures figures excl exclu ude fide im imp pairment airment c ch harges, arges, D Diia amon monds ds & & Mi Min ne era rals ls 2 29 9 39 39 37 37 c c which which are are exclu exclud ded ed from from Underlying Underlying earnings.
O Ot ther her operat operatiio ons ns 1 11 1 136 136 110 110 Reportable Reportable segm segments ents total total 7 7, 1 165 65 5, 5,705 705 2, 2,513 513 O Ot ther her item items s 37 370 0 216 216 270 270 Explorat Exploratio ion n and and e ev valuat aluatiion on not not att attr ributed ibuted to to product product gro grou ups ps 2 28 8 1 1 30 30 N Ne et t fina finance nce cost costs s 14 140 0 152 152 228 228 6 6, 6 627 27 5, 5,338 338 1, 1,985 985 f f Tax Tax c ch ha ar rge ge exc exclude luded d from from Unde Underl rlyi ying ng earn earniin ngs gs 18 188 8 42 42 91 91 Tax Tax charg charge e per per income income statement statement 6 6, 4 439 39 5, 5,296 296 2, 2,076 076 152 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 153 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 2011 2010 2009 2 Operating segments US$m US$m US$m Restated Capital expenditure 2011 2010 2009 a b Gross sales revenue US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 4,757 1,716 2,148 c Iron Ore 29,909 24,024 12,598 Aluminium 1,957 963 1,300 c Aluminium 12,159 11,313 8,701 Copper 3,784 990 587 Copper 7,634 7,797 6,220 Energy 1,327 685 510 Energy 7,327 5,652 4,869 Diamonds & Minerals 639 300 519 c Diamonds & Minerals 3,220 3,035 2,618 Other operations 729 570 760 c Other operations 8,246 10,151 9,897 Reportable segments total 13,193 5,224 5,824 Reportable segments total 68,495 61,972 44,903 Other items 251 75 54 Inter-segment transactions 2,817 2,758 2,169 Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units 1,146 746 522 Product Group Total Capital expenditure per Financial information by business unit 12,298 4,553 5,356 65,678 59,214 42,734 Items excluded from underlying earnings 56 Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 37 38 32 Gross sales revenue 65,622 59,214 42,734 Capital expenditure per statement of cash flow 12,335 4,591 5,388 Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 5,085 4,043 2,472 Rio Tintos management structure is based on the principal product groups shown above together with the global functions that support the business.
Consolidated sales revenue per income statement 60,537 55,171 40,262 The chief executive of each product group reports to the Chief executive of Rio Tinto.
The Chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the performance of each product group based on a number of measures including capital expenditure and operating cash flows, with Underlying earnings being the key financial d Depreciation and amortisation performance indicator.
Finance costs and net debt are managed on a group basis.
Iron Ore 1,203 993 763 Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product.
The Energy product group includes both coal and uranium c Aluminium 1,098 1,062 1,099 businesses.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes businesses with products such as borates and titanium dioxide feedstock together with Copper 538 568 543 diamonds operations.
The Copper group includes certain gold operations in addition to copper.
Energy 520 367 296 The financial information by business unit provided on pages 209 to 212 of these financial statements provide additional voluntary disclosure which the Diamonds & Minerals 337 268 290 c Group considers is useful to the users of the financial statements.
Other operations 535 587 765 Reportable segments total 4,231 3,845 3,756 a Gross sales revenue Other items 113 114 111 Product group gross sales revenue includes the Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries.
Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units 527 522 440 Rio Tintos share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units is deducted in arriving at consolidated sales revenue as shown on the face Depreciation and amortisation per note 4 3,817 3,437 3,427 of the income statement.
Intersegment transactions relate to sales between the Aluminium Product Group and Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products e Underlying earnings and Other Aluminum operations whose results are reported within Other operations.
Iron Ore 12,853 10,189 4,126 Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries of US$5,564 million c Aluminium 442 611 260 2010: US$4,254 million, 2009: US$3,197 million in addition to consolidated sales revenue.
Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary Copper 1,932 2,530 1,874 sales to equity accounted units which are not included in gross sales revenue.
Energy 1,074 1,187 1,167 Diamonds & Minerals 252 328 800 b Reclassification of sundry revenues c Other operations 120 237 232 Following the continued integration and organisational restructure of Rio Tinto Aluminium and adoption of the integrated operations approach Reportable segments total 16,433 15,082 7,475 see financial information by business unit on pages 209 to 212, sales of surplus power and carbon products used in the smelting process, previously Inter-segment transactions 40 15 21 included within sales revenue, have been treated as a credit to operating costs.
In addition, third party commodity swap arrangements for delivery and receipt of smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
Corresponding amounts in comparative periods have been reclassified accordingly.
Other items 593 554 577 This reclassification is considered to improve the relevance of the financial statements for users.
The impact of the reclassification on previously Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 102 52 5 reported consolidated sales revenue is: 31 December 2010: US$1,405 million 31 December 2009: US$1,563 million.
The impact on previously reported Net finance costs 229 474 584 gross sales revenue is: 31 December 2010: US$1,109 million 31 December 2009: US$1,302 million.
Underlying earnings 15,549 13,987 6,298 f Items excluded from Underlying earnings 9,723 251 1,426 c Other operations Aluminium Net earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement 5,826 14,238 4,872 Aluminium is now presented on an integrated operations basis splitting activities between Bauxite and Alumina, Primary Metal and Other Integrated Operations.
Other operations now include Rio Tintos interests in Pacific Aluminium and Other Aluminium.
2010 comparative information has been Tax charge adjusted accordingly.
Iron Ore 5,939 4,602 1,868 c d Depreciation and amortisation Aluminium 64 36 385 Product group depreciation and amortisation totals include 100 per cent of subsidiaries depreciation and amortisation and include Rio Tintos share Copper 626 705 582 of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units.
Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity accounted units Energy 496 537 521 is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation excluding equity accounted units as shown in note 4.
These figures exclude impairment charges, Diamonds & Minerals 29 39 37 c which are excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other operations 11 136 110 Reportable segments total 7,165 5,705 2,513 Other items 370 216 270 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 28 1 30 Net finance costs 140 152 228 6,627 5,338 1,985 f Tax charge excluded from Underlying earnings 188 42 91 Tax charge per income statement 6,439 5,296 2,076 riotinto.
com 153 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued 2 2 Operating segments continued Operating segments continued 3 3 Operating segments additional information Operating segments additional information 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 a a Gross Gross sales sales rev reve enue nue by by destinatio destination n % % % % % % US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m e e Un Underly derlyiin ng g earnings earnings China China 30 30.7.
7 2 20, 0,155 155 16 16,581, 581 10 10,569, 569 Underlying Underlying earni earnings ngs is is reported reported by by Rio Rio Ti Tinto nto to to pro prov vide ide great greate er r unde under rstanding standing of of th the e underlying underlying business business perfor perform mance ance of of iit ts s o operations perations an and d to to enhanc enhance e Japan Japan 16 16.6.
9 1 10, 0,892 892 9, 9,410 410 5, 5,921 921 com comp parability arability b be et tw ween een r re eporting porting p pe er riod iods.
6 1 10, 0,410 410 8, 8,603 603 5, 5,820 820 The The measure measure of of U Un nderlying derlying earning earnings s is is used used by by the the c ch hief ief executive executive of of Rio Rio Tinto Tinto to to as asse ses ss s the the perfor performanc mance e of of the the produc product t g gr roups.
Underlying Underlying earnings earnings United States of America United States of America 13 13.7.
7 9, 9,01 019 9 8, 8,975 975 8, 8,412 412 and and N Ne et t earnings earnings both both re represent present a am mounts ounts a attributa ttributab ble le t to o o ow wners ners of of Ri Rio o Tinto.
The The f fo ollo llowing wing items items are are ex excluded cluded from from N Ne et t e ea arnings rnings in in arr arriiving ving at at O Ot ther her Eu Europe rope exc excllu udi ding ng Un United ited K Kiin ng gd do om m 11 11.5.
2 7, 7,54 549 9 8, 8,340 340 6, 6,082 082 Underlying Underlying earnin earning gs s each each period period irr irre espe spec ctive tive of of mat mate er riality iality: : Canada Canada 2 2.9.
3.1 1 1, 1,92 926 6 1, 1,925 925 1, 1,313 313 Prof Profits its le less ss los losses ses on on step step acqu acquis isit ition ions disposa s disposal l of of inte intere rests sts iin n bus busiinesses nesses, o ot ther her t th han an t th hose ose re rella ating ting to to undev undevelop elope ed d projects projects Un United ited K Kiin ng gdom dom 1 1.4.
2.4 4 92 922 2 1, 1,334 334 1, 1,031 031 Im Impai pair rm me ent nt ch char arge ges s rever reversal sals s Aust Austral raliia a 2 2.5.
5.6 6 3, 3,10 102 2 2, 2,882 882 2, 2,405 405 P Pr rof ofiit t llos oss s a af fter ter t ta ax x f fr rom om disco discon ntinued tinued operatio operations ns Gross Gross sales sales reve revenue nue 10 100.
0 6 65, 5,622 622 59 59,214, 214 42 42,734, 734 Excha Exchan nge ge and and fide deri rivative vative ga gain ins s and and lo losses.
Th This is e ex xcl clus usion ion iin ncl cludes udes Exc Exch ha an ng ge e ga gain ins s los losses ses o on n US US dolla dollar r ne net t deb debt t and and iin nt tr rag agroup roup b ba alances lances, ga gains ins and and llo osses sses Share Share of of eq equit uity y acc acco ounted unted units units a an nd d a ad djustment justments s fo for r iin nt tr ra a-subssubsidi idia ar ry y equ equit ity y on on cu curre rrenc ncy y and and in interest terest r rate ate der deriivat vatiiv five es s not not qua quali lify fyiing ng fo for r hedg hedge e accou accoun nt tiin ng g and and ga gaiin ns lo s losses sses on on commodit commodity y derivat derivatiives ves not not q qu ual aliif fy yiin ng g fo for r hed hedg ge e acco accou un nti ting ng.. accounted accounted un units its sa sales les 5, 5,08 085 5 4 4,043, 043 2 2,472, 472 In In addition, addition, there there iis s a a final final judgm judgme ent ntal al categ catego ory ry which which includes, includes, where where a applicabl pplicable e, oth other er cr credits edits and and char charges ges that, that, individuall individually y, or or in in aggregate aggregate if if of of Consolidated Consolidated sal sale es s revenue revenue 6 60, 0,537 537 55 55,171, 171 40 40,262, 262 a a similar similar ty type, pe, ar are e of of a a na nature ture or or siz size e to to require require exclu exclus sion ion in in order order t to o pr provide ovide a additional dditional in insight sight into into underly underlying ing business business pe perform rformance.
a a Sales Sales by by g ge eog ographical raphical d fide estina stinat tion ion are are bas based ed on on the the ultim ultimate ate cou coun ntry try o of f destina destination tion o of f the the produ produc ct, t, if if know known.
n. IIf f the the eve event ntu ual al dest destiina nat tion ion of of the the prod product uct sold sold t th hrough rough t tr rad aders ers is is not not known, known, t th he en n r revenu evenue e is is alloc allocat ated ed t to o t th he e loc locat atiion on of of t th he e produ produc ct t at at th the e t tiime me wh when en th the e risks risks an and d rew rewa ards rds o of f o own wne ersh rship ip a are re passed.
R Riio o T Tiin nt to o is is domic domiciiled led in in bot both h the the U Un nited ited K Kiing ngdom dom a an nd d A Au ust stralia.
Product Product group group ear earn nings ings by by reporta reportabl ble e seg segm ment ent includ include e ear earnings nings of of subs subsidiaries idiaries and and equity equity accounted accounted units units stated stated befor before e f finance inance ite item ms s but but af afte ter r the the amortisation amortisation of of discount.
Rio Rio Tinto Tintos s share share of of the the Underly Underlyiing ng earnings earnings of of equity equity accounted accounted units, units, included included in in the the re reportabl portable e s se egm gment ents s tot total, al, am amounts ounts t to o U US$83 S$834 4 mill million ion in in 2011 2011 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 a a 2010: 2010: US$1 US$1,202, 202 million: million: 20 2009 09: : US$ US$864 864 mi million.
This This amount amount is is attributable attributable as as fo foll llows: ows: U US S$660 $660 million million profit profit to to the the C Co opper pper g gr ro oup up and and U US S$174 $174 million million Gross Gross sales sales rev reven enu ue e by by prod produ uct ct US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m profit profit to to other other product product groups groups 201 2010: 0: US US$1,016 $1,016 million million profit profit attribut attributable able to to the the Copper Copper product group product group and and US$186 US$186 million million pr profi ofit t to to oth other er pro prod duct uct IIro ron n O Ore re 2 29, 9,867 867 23 23,834, 834 12 12,096, 096 groups: groups: 2009: 2009: US$ US$750 750 million million profit profit attributab attributablle e to to the the Copper Copper product product g gr roup oup and and U US S$114 $114 milli million on profit profit to to other other produc product t groups groups..
These These a am mount ounts s Alumi Alumin nium ium 1 14, 4,327 327 12 12,721, 721 9, 9,864 864 are are included included in in Underlying Underlying earnings earnings of of the the relevant relevant pr product oduct groups groups and and include include the the Un Under derly lyiing ng earnings earnings of of the the Group Groups s tolling tolling e entities ntities which which pr process ocess Coal Coal 6, 6,35 350 0 5, 5,360 360 5, 5,683 683 bauxite bauxite and and alumi alumin na.
a. Tolling Tolling entities entities re recharge charge the the ma majority jority of of their their cos cost ts s and and would would g ge enerally nerally have have m miinim nima al l earnings.
Copper Copper 5, 5,14 144 4 5, 5,716 716 4, 4,775 775 The The Ene Ener rg gy y p pr roduc oduct t gro grou ups ps Unde Underl rlyin ying g ear earn niin ng gs s iin n 2 2010 010 inc included luded US$ US$229 229 millio million n p pr rofit ofit afte after r t ta ax x iin n re relat latiion on to to t th he e divestment divestment o of f Ma Maules ules Creek Creek a an nd d Vick Vickery ery Ind Indu ust stria riall M Miine nera rals ls 3, 3,13 131 1 2, 2,955 955 2, 2,677 677 coal coal pro projjects ects.. T Th he e Diamonds Diamonds & & M Miine ner ra als ls pr prod oduct uct g gr roup oups s U Under nderllyi ying ng ea earn rniin ngs gs iin n 2 20 009 09 inc incllude uded d US$797 US$797 mi mill llion ion p pr rof ofit it afte after r ta tax x iin n rel rela ation tion t to o t th he e divest divestment ment Gold Gold 1, 1,01 012 2 1, 1,086 086 972 972 of of undeve undevelloped oped potash potash a assets ssets in in Arge Argentina ntina a an nd d Ca Canada nada.. Diamonds Diamonds 72 726 6 682 682 450 450 Oth Othe er r 5, 5,06 065 5 6, 6,860 860 6, 6,217 217 f f Reconciliat Reconciliation ion of of net net earnings earnings to to Underlying Underlying ea earnings rnings Gross Gross sales sales reve revenue nue 6 65, 5,622 622 59 59,214, 214 42 42,734, 734 No NonnRe Rest state ated d Share Share of of eq equit uity y acc acco ounted unted units units a an nd d a ad djustm justme ent nts s fo for r iin ntr traa-subs subsidi idiar ary y e equ quit ity y accounted accounted un units its s sales ales 5, 5,08 085 5 4 4,043, 043 2 2,472, 472 Disc Discont onti in nu ued ed cont control roll lin ing g Ne Net t Net Net Net Net k k k k Consolidated Consolidated sal sale es s revenue revenue 6 60, 0,537 537 55 55,171, 171 40 40,262, 262 Pr Pre e-tatax x o op pe er ra at tio ions ns Taxati Taxation on int inte er re ests sts amo amou unfit nt amo amou unfit nt amo amou unfit nt 2 2011 011 2 2011 011 2 2011 011 2 2011 011 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 a a Gross Gross sales sales revenues revenues of of t th he e Group Group are are derived derived f fr rom om t th he e abov above e produ produc ct ts s sold sold t to o ext exte ern rnal al cus cust tom omers.
Exclusions Exclusions from from Underlying Underlying earnings earnings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Im Impai pair rm me ent nt ch char arge ges s net net of of rever reversals sals n note ote 6 6 9, 9,76 766 6 4 476 76 9, 9,29 290 0 739 739 1 1,103, 103 g g Prof Profits its o on n dispo disposal sal of of inte interest rests s iin n bus busiinesses nesses 1 185 85 1 18 8 16 167 7 174 174 499 499 h h Gain Gain o on n consolid consolidation ation of of Oyu Oyu Tol Tolg goi oi 445 445 Loss Loss afte after r tax tax from from discont discontiinued nued opera operat tions ions 1 10 0 1 10 0 97 97 449 449 Excha Exchan nge ge and and fide deri rivative vative ga gain ins los s losses : ses : Excha Exchan nge ge losse losses s g gains ains o on n US US dolla dollar r net net debt debt and and int intr ra ag gro roup up bala balance nces s 15 155 5 2 22 2 1 14 4 14 147 7 434 434 56 56 Gains Gains losse losses s on on c cu ur rr renc ency y a an nd d iin ntere terest st rate rate fide deri rivati vatives ves not not qual qualifying ifying fo for r hedge hedge accounting accounting 1 12 2 1 16 6 1 15 5 1 19 9 56 56 9 9 Gains Gains losse losses s on on c co ommodity mmodity der deriivat vatiiv five es s not not qua qualliif fyi ying ng for for hed hedg ge e acco account untiin ng g 9 99 9 1 10 0 10 109 9 61 61 75 75 Chi Chin nalco alco b br reak eak fee fee 182 182 i i Deferred Deferred tax tax asset asset write write of off f 34 342 2 34 342 2 j j Restruct Restructu ur riing ng cost costs s from from g global lobal he head adcount count reduct reduction ion 231 231 O Ot ther her excl exclus usion ions s 4 46 6 5 56 6 20 201 1 19 191 1 39 39 12 12 Total Total excluded excluded fr from om Underlying Underlying ea earnings rnings 9, 9,67 671 1 18 188 8 23 230 0 1 10 0 9 9,7, 723 23 251 251 1 1,426, 426 Net Net earnings earnings 1 13, 3,214 214 6, 6,43 439 9 93 939 9 1 10 0 5, 5,82 826 6 14 14,238, 238 4, 4,872 872 Underlying Underlying earning earnings s 2 22, 2,885 885 6, 6,62 627 7 70 709 9 1 15, 5,549 549 13 13,987, 987 6, 6,298 298 g g Prof Profit its s arisin arising g on on t th he e dis disp posal osal of of int inte erest rests s iin n bu busin sine esses sses f for or th the e y year ear en ended ded 31 31 fide Dec ce ember mber 2011 2011 r re elat late e prin princ ciipally pally t to o th the e di divest vestment ment o of f t th he e Grou Groups ps t ta alc lc bu busin sine ess ss an and d Colow Colowyo yo mine.
R Re efer fer t to o note note 39.
Prof Profit its s arisin arising g on on t th he e dis disp posal osal of of int inte erest rests s iin n bu busin sine esses sses f for or th the e y year ear en ended ded 31 31 Dec Dece ember mber 2010 2010 r re elat late e prin princ ciipally pally t to o th the e sale sale of of t th he e Grou Group ps s 48 48 per per c ce ent nt iin nt te erest rest in in Clo Clou ud d Peak Peak E En nergy ergy IIn nc c.. Prof Profit its s arisin arising g on on t th he e dis disp posal osal of of int inte erest rests s iin n bu busin sine esses sses f for or th the e y year ear en ended ded 31 31 Dec Dece ember mber 2009 2009 r re elat late ed d prin princ ciipally pally t to o sal sale es s of of t th he e Coru Corumb mb iron iron ore ore min mine e, th the e J Ja ac co obs bs R Ra anch nch coal coal mi mine ne and and 52 52 p per er cen cent t of of R Riio o T Tiint nto os s int inte erest rest iin n Clou Cloud d Peak Peak En Energy ergy R Re es so ou ur rc ce es s LLC LLC CPE CPER R, , and and w we ere re part partiall ially y off offs set et by by a a loss loss f from rom th the e sale sale of of A Allc ca an n C Composit omposite es.
s. h h T Th he e gai gain n on on c co on nsolidat solidatiio on n of of O Oy yu u T Tolgoi olgoi represen represent ts s t th he e exc exce ess ss o of f t th he e fair fair valu value e asc ascr ribed ibed t to o t th he e Grou Group ps s in indirec direct t sh share are of of t th he e asset assets s and and liabilit liabilitiies es of of O Oy yu u T Tolgoi olgoi over over t th he e h hiist storic oric c cost ost of of acqu acquiri irin ng g t th hat at share share t th hroug rough h its its inves invest tment ment in in Iv Ivanhoe anhoe M Miines fines Ltd. Ltd. i i In In 2011 2011, Fren French ch fide deferred ferred t tax ax assets assets of of US$ US$342 342 million million were were wr writ itten ten off off as as a a result result of of restri restriction ctions s on on t th he e utilisatio utilisation n of of lo losses sses in int trodu roduc ced ed in in 201 2011.
1. j j During During 2009, 2009, t th he e Group Group incurred incurred res rest truct ructuring uring c costs osts relating relating to to t th he e cost cost saving saving measures measures anno annou un nced ced in in Decemb December er 200 2008 8.. k k E Exc xcllu us sion ions s f from rom Underlyin Underlying g earn earniin ng gs s rela relating ting to to bo both th equi equit ty y a acco ccoun unted ted u un nits its EAU EAUs s an and d discon disconti tinued nued operations operations are are st sta at ted ed n ne et t o of f tax tax.. Ex Excl clus usio ions ns fr fro om m U Un nder derllying ying ear earni ning ngs s r re ella ating ting to to EAU EAUs s ar are e in inc clu luded ded in in th the e c colu olumn mn PrePre-t tax ax an and d th the e resu results lts of of disc discont ontiinu nued ed op operat erations ions are are show shown n iin n the the co collu umn mn D Dis isco contin ntinued ued o ope per ratio ations ns.. 154 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 155 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments continued 3 Operating segments additional information 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 a Gross sales revenue by destination % % % US$m US$m US$m e Underlying earnings China 30.7 28.0 24.7 20,155 16,581 10,569 Underlying earnings is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations and to enhance Japan 16.6 16.0 13.9 10,892 9,410 5,921 comparability between reporting periods.
Other Asia 15.9 14.5 13.6 10,410 8,603 5,820 The measure of Underlying earnings is used by the chief executive of Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups.
Underlying earnings United States of America 13.7 15.2 19.7 9,019 8,975 8,412 and Net earnings both represent amounts attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
The following items are excluded from Net earnings in arriving at Other Europe excluding United Kingdom 11.5 14.1 14.2 7,549 8,340 6,082 Underlying earnings each period irrespective of materiality: Canada 2.9 3.3 3.1 1,926 1,925 1,313 Profits less losses on step acquisitions disposal of interests in businesses, other than those relating to undeveloped projects United Kingdom 1.4 2.3 2.4 922 1,334 1,031 Impairment charges reversals Australia 2.5 2.0 2.8 1,647 1,164 1,181 Other 4.8 4.6 5.6 3,102 2,882 2,405 Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations Gross sales revenue 100.0 100.0 100.0 65,622 59,214 42,734 Exchange and derivative gains and losses.
This exclusion includes Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances, gains and losses Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for intra-subsidiary equity on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and gains losses on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
accounted units sales 5,085 4,043 2,472 In addition, there is a final judgmental category which includes, where applicable, other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate if of Consolidated sales revenue 60,537 55,171 40,262 a similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
a Sales by geographical destination are based on the ultimate country of destination of the product, if known.
If the eventual destination of the product sold through traders is not known, then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are passed.
Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the United Kingdom and Australia.
Product group earnings by reportable segment include earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount.
Rio Tintos share of the Underlying earnings of equity accounted units, included in the reportable segments total, amounts to US$834 million in 2011 2011 2010 2009 a 2010: US$1,202 million: 2009: US$864 million.
This amount is attributable as follows: US$660 million profit to the Copper group and US$174 million Gross sales revenue by product US$m US$m US$m profit to other product groups 2010: US$1,016 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and US$186 million profit to other product Iron Ore 29,867 23,834 12,096 groups: 2009: US$750 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and US$114 million profit to other product groups.
These amounts Aluminium 14,327 12,721 9,864 are included in Underlying earnings of the relevant product groups and include the Underlying earnings of the Groups tolling entities which process Coal 6,350 5,360 5,683 bauxite and alumina.
Tolling entities recharge the majority of their costs and would generally have minimal earnings.
Copper 5,144 5,716 4,775 The Energy product groups Underlying earnings in 2010 included US$229 million profit after tax in relation to the divestment of Maules Creek and Vickery Industrial Minerals 3,131 2,955 2,677 coal projects.
The Diamonds & Minerals product groups Underlying earnings in 2009 included US$797 million profit after tax in relation to the divestment Gold 1,012 1,086 972 of undeveloped potash assets in Argentina and Canada.
Diamonds 726 682 450 Other 5,065 6,860 6,217 f Reconciliation of net earnings to Underlying earnings Gross sales revenue 65,622 59,214 42,734 NonRestated Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 5,085 4,043 2,472 Discontinued controlling Net Net Net k k Consolidated sales revenue 60,537 55,171 40,262 Pre-tax operations Taxation interests amount amount amount 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2009 a Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the above products sold to external customers.
Exclusions from Underlying earnings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Impairment charges net of reversals note 6 9,766 476 9,290 739 1,103 g Profits on disposal of interests in businesses 185 18 167 174 499 h Gain on consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi 445 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 10 10 97 449 Exchange and derivative gains losses : Exchange losses gains on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances 155 22 14 147 434 56 Gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 12 16 15 19 56 9 Gains losses on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 99 10 109 61 75 Chinalco break fee 182 i Deferred tax asset write off 342 342 j Restructuring costs from global headcount reduction 231 Other exclusions 46 56 201 191 39 12 Total excluded from Underlying earnings 9,671 188 230 10 9,723 251 1,426 Net earnings 13,214 6,439 939 10 5,826 14,238 4,872 Underlying earnings 22,885 6,627 709 15,549 13,987 6,298 g Profits arising on the disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2011 relate principally to the divestment of the Groups talc business and Colowyo mine.
Profits arising on the disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2010 relate principally to the sale of the Groups 48 per cent interest in Cloud Peak Energy Inc. Profits arising on the disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2009 related principally to sales of the Corumb iron ore mine, the Jacobs Ranch coal mine and 52 per cent of Rio Tintos interest in Cloud Peak Energy Resources LLC CPER, and were partially offset by a loss from the sale of Alcan Composites.
h The gain on consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi represents the excess of the fair value ascribed to the Groups indirect share of the assets and liabilities of Oyu Tolgoi over the historic cost of acquiring that share through its investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. i In 2011, French deferred tax assets of US$342 million were written off as a result of restrictions on the utilisation of losses introduced in 2011. j During 2009, the Group incurred restructuring costs relating to the cost saving measures announced in December 2008. k Exclusions from Underlying earnings relating to both equity accounted units EAUs and discontinued operations are stated net of tax.
Exclusions from Underlying earnings relating to EAUs are included in the column Pre-tax and the results of discontinued operations are shown in the column Discontinued operations.
com 155 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued 3 3 Operating segments addi Operating segments additional tional information information continued continued 5 5 Employme Employment nt costs costs Re Rest state ated d 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 No Note te 2 2011 011 2010 2010 US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m a a Non-current Non-current asse assets ts other other than than fina financia ncial l instruments instruments and and deferred deferred tax tax assets assets US$m US$m US US$m $m Employment Employment costs costs Aust Austral raliia a 40 40,0, 081 81 36,460 36,460 Wag Wages an es and salaries d salaries 6, 6,69 696 6 6, 6,328 328 6, 6,130 130 Canada Canada 22 22,4, 458 58 25,349 25,349 Social security co Social security costs sts 12 128 8 98 98 101 101 Mongo Mongolliia a 11 11,1, 195 95 8,062 8,062 Net Net pos post t retirem retireme ent nt cost cost 47 47 60 604 4 573 573 524 524 Afr Afriica ca 5 5, 68 685 5 1,642 1,642 Share Share optio option n cha char rge ge 46 46 15 156 6 124 124 177 177 United States United States 5 5, 01 012 2 4,398 4,398 7, 7,58 584 4 7, 7,123 123 6, 6,932 932 S So outh uth Am Amer erica ica 2 2, 32 325 5 2,404 2,404 Less: Less: c ch ha ar rged ged w wiithin thin prov provis isions ions 67 676 6 717 717 734 734 Fra Fran nce ce 1 1, 09 095 5 1,890 1,890 Total Total empl employmen oyment t costs costs 4 4 6, 6,90 908 8 6, 6,406 406 6, 6,198 198 Europe Europe e excl xclu udi ding ng Fra Fran nce ce 1 1, 00 000 0 1,322 1,322 Un United ited K Kiin ng gdom dom 89 894 4 1,433 1,433 6 6 Impairment charges Impairment charges Indo Indonesi nesia a 77 770 0 646 646 Pr Pre e- -ta tax x Taxati Taxation on Ne Net t a am mo ou unfit nt N Ne et t am amoun ount t N Ne et t am amoun ount t O Ot ther her cou coun ntr tries ies 49 496 6 576 576 2 2011 011 2 2011 011 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 91 91,0, 011 11 84,182 84,182 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m a a Alumi Alumin nium ium 6, 6,69 691 1 6, 6,69 691 1 212 212 a a Non-current Non-current ass asse ets ts excluded excluded from from ana analysis lysis above: above: O Ot ther her operat operatio ions ns Alum Alumiin nium ium 2, 2,49 491 1 32 327 7 2, 2,16 164 4 b b Deferred Deferred tax tax assets assets 1 1, 87 875 5 1,863 1,863 Alcan Alcan En Engineered gineered Product Products s 589 589 500 500 c c Tax Tax recover recoverable able 74 74 52 52 Diamonds Diamonds 46 467 7 12 123 3 34 344 4 115 115 348 348 Deri Derivat vatiives ves a an nd d oth othe er r f fiina nanc ncial ial a assets ssets 1 1, 45 454 4 1, 1,370 370 Oth Othe er r 11 117 7 2 26 6 9 91 1 35 35 43 43 b b Loans Loans to to equit equity y acc acco ounted unted units units 1 1, 69 695 5 1,363 1,363 Total Total 9, 9,76 766 6 47 476 6 9, 9,29 290 0 739 739 1 1,103, 103 Account Accounts s rece receiv ivabl able e 1 1, 45 450 0 778 778 a a The The ann annu ual al im impairmen pairment t review review o of f the the G Groups roups al aluminiu uminium m b bu usinesses sinesses resu resulted lted in in an an impairme impairmen nt t of of US US$7 $7,405, 405 mill million ion to to g goodwi oodwill ll 2010 2010 and and 200 2009: 9: no no im impairmen pairment t charg charge e of of w wh hich ich US$ US$6,586 6,586 milli million on w wa as s alloc allocat ated ed t to o Alu Alum miin niu ium, m, an and d th the e balan balance ce t to o O Ot th her er operat operation ions s Alu Alum minium inium.. T Th he e re review view also also result resulted ed iin n a a US US$ $1 1,18, 186 6 million million imp impa airmen irment t of of propert property y, pla plan nt t and and eq equi uipmen pment t 2 2010: 010: no no iimpair mpairment ment Total Total non non- -current current assets assets per per st statement atement of of financial financial position position 97 97,5, 559 59 89,608 89,608 charg charge e, 2 2009: 009: US$ US$212 212 million million re related lated to to Ot Othe her r operations operations Alumi Alumin niu ium, m, a an nd d a a US US$579 $579 million million imp impa airmen irment t of of inv inve est stments ments in in equi equit ty y a accou ccoun nt ted ed u un nits its 2010 2010 a an nd d 2 2009 009: : no no iimpairme mpairmen nt t charg charge e, , of of whi whic ch h a a Non-c Non-current urrent assets assets by by location location exclude exclude fi financi nancia al l instrume instruments, nts, fide deferred ferred t ta ax x assets, assets, post-employ post-employment ment be benefi nefit t assets assets an and d asse asset ts s held held f for or sale.
Alloc Allocat ation ion is is based based on on t th he e loc locat ation ion of of th the e bu busin sine ess ss u un niit ts s US$474 US$474 million million relate related d t to o Ot Other her opera operat tions ions Al Aluminiu uminium m a an nd d th the e bala balan nce ce to to Alumini Aluminiu um.
m. Detail Details s of of t th he e 2011 2011 iimpairm mpairme en nt t re review view relating relating to to the the Groups Groups alumi alumin nium ium bus businesses inesses are are s se et t o ou ut t in in n no ote te 12 12.. holding holding th the e assets, assets, a an nd d includes includes iin nvest vestmen ments ts in in equi equit ty y accou accoun nte ted d u un nits its totalling totalling US US$ $8 8,606, 606 milli million on 201 2010: 0: U US S$5, $5,719 719 million million w wh hic ich h represen represents ts t th he e Groups Groups share share of of ne net t a as ss se ets ts ex excl cluding uding quas quasi i e eq quity uity The The 2009 2009 impairme impairmen nt t c ch harg arge e relat relate ed d mai main nly ly t to o t th he e plan planned ned closure closure of of c ce ert rtain ain smelt smelte ers, rs, a an nd d w wa as s caused caused by by a a d fide ecrease crease iin n short short t te erm rm price price assumptions assumptions a at t th the e da date te of of t th he e im impairmen pairment t revi review.
loan loans s sh show own n separat separately ely w wiit th hiin n L Loan oans s to to eq equity uity accoun accounted ted u un nits its above.
The The re recoverable coverable a am moun ount t was was based based on on fair fair val value ue less less c cost osts s t to o sell, sell, and and w wa as s assessed assessed in in lliine ne wi wit th h t th he e po polliicy cy in in no not te e 1 1 i. i. b b Loans Loans to to e eq qui uity ty a accoun ccount ted ed u un nit its s compr comprise ise q qu uasi asi equi equit ty y loans loans of of U US S$1,2 $1,22 27 7 mi millio llion n 2 2010: 010: US$1 US$1,1, 136 36 million million iin nclud cluded ed iin n IInves nvestmen tments ts in in eq equity uity a accoun ccounted ted uni units ts on on t th he e f face ace of of t th he e stat statemen ement t o of f b b IIm mpairme pairmen nt t t to o t th he e Alca Alcan n E En ngineered gineered bu busin sine esses sses arose arose f follow ollowing ing f fiin na ali lisat sation ion o of f t th he e proceeds proceeds an and d t te erms rms of of t th he e proposed proposed sales sales tr trans ansa actio ction, n, w wh hic ich h a affe ffecte cted d the the as ass se es ss smen ment t o of f f fa air ir val valu ue e less less c costs osts t to o sell.
fina financial ncial position position a an nd d n no on-quasi n-quasi equi equit ty y loans loans of of US$46 US$468 8 million million 2010 2010: : US$227 US$227 million million show shown n withi within n other other fi fina nanc nciial al a ass ssets ets..
The The estima estimated ted proceeds proceeds were were assessed assessed in in line line w wiith th th the e policy policy iin n note note 1 i 1 i.. R Refer efer to to note note 20 20 for for f fu urther rther fide details.
c c Of Of th the e net net impairme impairmen nt t t to o the the Groups Groups di diamond amond business business duri during ng 2011 2011 a an nd d 2 2010, 010, US$4 US$456 56 million million 2 2010: 010: US$1 US$135 35 million million relates relates t to o Arg Argy yle le an and d was was ca caused used by by c ch hang ange es s in in assu assumpt mptiion ons s abou about t fut futu ure re capital capital costs costs req requ uired ired to to complet complete e the the Arg Argy yle le un underg derground round project project..
In In ad addition, dition, recover recovery y iin n pr pric ices es resu result lted ed iin n a a reversal reversal of of im impairme pairmen nt t relati relating ng t to o Diavik Diavik of of US$1 US$112 12 milli million on postpost-t tax ax 2010: 2010: US$ US$1 158 58 4 4 Net Net operating operating costs costs million million post-tax post-tax..
The The iimpairmen mpairment t to to t th he e G Group roups s Diamonds Diamonds b bu usiness siness d du uring ring 2009 2009 w wa as s ca caus used ed by by we weak ak d deman emand d for for luxury luxury ite item ms s an and d h higher igher inpu input t c cost osts.
s. T Th he e est estiimat mate e o of f f fa aiir r valu value e le less ss c cost osts s to to sell sell was was based based on on th the e policy policy in in note note 1 i 1 i.. 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 No Note te US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m a a Raw Raw m materi aterials als a an nd d consum consumable ables s 10 10,9, 97 75 5 12 12,004, 004 9, 9,938 938 7 7 Share of profit after tax Share of profit after tax of of equity equity accounted accounted units units Amortis Amortisa atio tion n of of int inta angible ngible a assets ssets 13 13 31 314 4 369 369 387 387 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m D Depr eprec eciia ati tio on n of of p pr ro oper perty, ty, pla plan nt a t an nd eq d equipment uipment 14 14 3, 3,50 503 3 3, 3,068 068 3, 3,040 040 a a S Sales ales reve revenue nue 6, 6,09 099 9 4, 4,722 722 3, 3,020 020 Employment Employment costs costs 5 5 6, 6,90 908 8 6, 6,406 406 6, 6,198 198 Oper Operatin ating g cost costs s 4, 4,87 872 2 2 2,818, 818 1 1,717, 717 Repairs Repairs and and ma maint inte enance finance 2, 2,53 533 3 1, 1,946 946 1, 1,771 771 Prof Profit it befo before re f fiina nanc nce e item items s and and ta taxat xatiio on n 1, 1,22 227 7 1, 1,904 904 1, 1,303 303 Shipping Shipping costs costs 1, 1,88 885 5 1, 1,890 890 1, 1,828 828 Finance Finance items items 5 54 4 87 87 49 49 O Ot ther her f fr rei eight ght co costs sts 95 959 9 838 838 756 756 Share Share of of p pr rof ofit it afte after r tax tax of equit of equity y acco accounted units unted units 3 38 8 21 21 23 23 Increa Increas se decrea e decreas se e in in f fiinished nished goods goods and and wor work k iin n p pr rogre ogress ss 3 31 1 377 377 517 517 Roy Roya alt ltiie es s 2, 2,79 790 0 2, 2,104 104 1, 1,539 539 Prof Profit it befo before re taxat taxatiion on 1, 1,21 211 1 1, 1,838 838 1, 1,277 277 b b Amounts Amounts c ch ha ar rged ged by by jo joint intly ly co cont ntrolle rolled d entit entitiies es 3, 3,73 730 0 2, 2,934 934 2, 2,420 420 Taxat Taxatiion on 50 507 7 737 737 491 491 N Ne et t forei foreig gn n e ex xcha chan nge ge ga gaiins ns lo losses sses 8 84 4 4 4 123 123 P Pr rofit ofit f fo or r the the year year Rio Rio Tinto Tinto share share 70 704 4 1, 1,101 101 786 786 O Ot ther her exte externa rnal l cost costs s 2, 2,90 901 1 3, 3,304 304 3, 3,127 127 a a Sales Sales reve revenue nue of of equi equit ty y accoun accounted ted u un nits its ex exclud cludes es ch charg arges es by by eq equity uity ac account counted ed uni unit ts s t to o Grou Group p su subsidiaries.
Prov Provis isions ions incl inclu uding ding exc exch ha an nge ge d diiffe fferences rences on on p pr rov ovis isions ions 27 27 96 961 1 907 907 930 930 Research Research and and deve development lopment 14 148 8 187 187 193 193 8 8 Finance income and finance costs Finance income and finance costs Costs Costs iin ncl cluded uded abo abov five e qual qualif ifyin ying g for for ca capital pitaliisat satiio on n 83 836 6 140 140 136 136 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 No Note te US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m O Ot ther her operat operatiin ng g iinc nco om me e 39 396 6 174 174 376 376 Finance Finance income income f fr ro om m equity equity accounte accounted d units units 3 35 5 33 33 36 36 Net Net operating operating cos costs ts excluding excluding ite items ms shown shown separa separately tely 36 36,2, 26 60 0 35 35,262, 262 32 32,255, 255 O Ot ther her f fiin finance ance inco incom me e incl inclu ud diin ng g bank bank deposits deposits a an nd d othe other r fi financ nancia ial l asset assets s 8 80 0 130 130 84 84 a a Refer Refer to to note note b b of of the the Group Group In Income come Sta Stateme tement nt for for t th he e re recl classificatio assification n of of amou amoun nts ts iin n 2 2010 010 a an nd d 2 2009, 009, previously previously in included cluded w wiit th hiin n sales sales revenu revenue.
e. b b Amou Amoun nt ts s c ch harged arged by by joi join nt tlly y c co on nt tr rolled olled ent entiit tiies es main mainlly y relate relate t to o t toll oll proc processin essing g bu but t also also inc incllu ud fide e pu purch rcha ases ses f from rom joi join nt tlly y c co on nt trolled rolled ent entiit tiies es of of bau baux xit ite e an and d alu alum miin niu ium m whic which h are are th then en proc processed essed Total Total finance finance inco income me 11 115 5 163 163 120 120 by by th the e produ produc ct t grou group p or or sold sold t to o t th hird ird part partiies.
Gen Gene erally, rally, pu purch rcha ase ses s are are iin n proport proportion ion t to o th the e Grou Group ps s sh share are of of t th he e joint jointly ly c con ont tr rolled olled en entity tity bu but t iin n 201 2011, 1, US$8 US$849 49 million million 2 2010: 010: U US S$56 $564 4 million: million: 2009: 2009: US$4 US$491 91 million million related related to to p pu urchases rchases of of t th he e ot other her v five ent nturers urers shar share e of of productio production n.. a a Inte Interest rest pa pay ya able ble and and simil simila ar r c ch ha ar rges ges 99 990 0 853 853 1 1,127, 127 Inform Information ation on on au auditors ditors rem remunera unerati tion on is is included included in in note note 41.
41. b b Cha Char rges ges related related to to ref refiina nanc ncin ing g 107 107 Amounts Amounts c ca apita pitalise lised d 14 14 49 493 3 182 182 198 198 Total Total fi finance finance cost costs s 49 497 7 778 778 929 929 a a IIn nterest terest payable payable an and d similar similar c ch harges arges relat relate e t to o iin nt te erest rest on on ban bank k loan loans s an and d ot oth he er r borrow borrowin ings.
This This in inc cllu udes des a a f fa air ir valu value e g ga ain in on on int inte erest rest rat rate e sw swaps aps design designa at te ed d as as hedg hedge es s of of US$ US$311 311 million million an and d an an of off fs sett ettiing ng f fa air ir val value ue loss loss on on b ba ank nk borrow borrowings ings at attribut tributable able t to o iin nt te eres rest t rate rate risk risk of of U US S$30 $308 8 million million 2010: 2010: fair fair value value gain gain on on t th he e iin nt te er rest est rat rate e sw swaps aps of of US US$186 $186 mil million lion and and a an n o of ffs fset etting ting fair fair val valu ue e llo os ss s o on n bank bank borrow borrowings ings at att tr rib ibu ut table able t to o in int te erest rest rat rate e risk risk of of U US S$196 $196 mi million: llion: 20 2009: 09: f fa air ir v va alue lue loss loss on on t th he e in int te erest rest ra rat te e sw swaps aps o of f US US$59 $59 million million an and d an an off offs set ett tiin ng g fair fair value value gain gain on on ban bank k borrow borrowin ings gs at att tr riib bu ut table able t to o int inte erest rest rat rate e risk risk of of U US S$59 $59 million million.. b b Charg Charge es s on on the the refin refina anc ncing ing of of bo bonds nds in in O Oc ctober tober 2010 2010 iin nclud cludes es a a cash cash pr premium emium of of U US S$252 $252 million, million, of offset fset by by nonnon-cash cash m mark ark to to m market arket hedg hedge e fair fair value value adj adjustme ustmen nts ts of of U US S$167 $167 million million n note ote 31.
156 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 157 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 3 Operating segments additional information continued 5 Employment costs Restated 2011 2010 2009 Note 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m a Non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets US$m US$m Employment costs Australia 40,081 36,460 Wages and salaries 6,696 6,328 6,130 Canada 22,458 25,349 Social security costs 128 98 101 Mongolia 11,195 8,062 Net post retirement cost 47 604 573 524 Africa 5,685 1,642 Share option charge 46 156 124 177 United States 5,012 4,398 7,584 7,123 6,932 South America 2,325 2,404 Less: charged within provisions 676 717 734 France 1,095 1,890 Total employment costs 4 6,908 6,406 6,198 Europe excluding France 1,000 1,322 United Kingdom 894 1,433 6 Impairment charges Indonesia 770 646 Pre-tax Taxation Net amount Net amount Net amount Other countries 496 576 2011 2011 2011 2010 2009 91,011 84,182 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Aluminium 6,691 6,691 212 a Non-current assets excluded from analysis above: Other operations Aluminium 2,491 327 2,164 b Deferred tax assets 1,875 1,863 Alcan Engineered Products 589 500 c Tax recoverable 74 52 Diamonds 467 123 344 115 348 Derivatives and other financial assets 1,454 1,370 Other 117 26 91 35 43 b Loans to equity accounted units 1,695 1,363 Total 9,766 476 9,290 739 1,103 Accounts receivable 1,450 778 a The annual impairment review of the Groups aluminium businesses resulted in an impairment of US$7,405 million to goodwill 2010 and 2009: no impairment charge of which US$6,586 million was allocated to Aluminium, and the balance to Other operations Aluminium.
The review also resulted in a US$1,186 million impairment of property, plant and equipment 2010: no impairment Total non-current assets per statement of financial position 97,559 89,608 charge, 2009: US$212 million related to Other operations Aluminium, and a US$579 million impairment of investments in equity accounted units 2010 and 2009: no impairment charge, of which a Non-current assets by location exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets, post-employment benefit assets and assets held for sale.
Allocation is based on the location of the business units US$474 million related to Other operations Aluminium and the balance to Aluminium.
Details of the 2011 impairment review relating to the Groups aluminium businesses are set out in note 12. holding the assets, and includes investments in equity accounted units totalling US$8,606 million 2010: US$5,719 million which represents the Groups share of net assets excluding quasi equity The 2009 impairment charge related mainly to the planned closure of certain smelters, and was caused by a decrease in short term price assumptions at the date of the impairment review.
loans shown separately within Loans to equity accounted units above.
The recoverable amount was based on fair value less costs to sell, and was assessed in line with the policy in note 1 i. b Loans to equity accounted units comprise quasi equity loans of US$1,227 million 2010: US$1,136 million included in Investments in equity accounted units on the face of the statement of b Impairment to the Alcan Engineered businesses arose following finalisation of the proceeds and terms of the proposed sales transaction, which affected the assessment of fair value less costs to sell.
financial position and non-quasi equity loans of US$468 million 2010: US$227 million shown within other financial assets.
The estimated proceeds were assessed in line with the policy in note 1 i.
Refer to note 20 for further details.
c Of the net impairment to the Groups diamond business during 2011 and 2010, US$456 million 2010: US$135 million relates to Argyle and was caused by changes in assumptions about future capital costs required to complete the Argyle underground project.
In addition, recovery in prices resulted in a reversal of impairment relating to Diavik of US$112 million post-tax 2010: US$158 4 Net operating costs million post-tax.
The impairment to the Groups Diamonds business during 2009 was caused by weak demand for luxury items and higher input costs.
The estimate of fair value less costs to sell was based on the policy in note 1 i.
2011 2010 2009 Note US$m US$m US$m a Raw materials and consumables 10,975 12,004 9,938 7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units Amortisation of intangible assets 13 314 369 387 2011 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 3,503 3,068 3,040 a Sales revenue 6,099 4,722 3,020 Employment costs 5 6,908 6,406 6,198 Operating costs 4,872 2,818 1,717 Repairs and maintenance 2,533 1,946 1,771 Profit before finance items and taxation 1,227 1,904 1,303 Shipping costs 1,885 1,890 1,828 Finance items 54 87 49 Other freight costs 959 838 756 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 38 21 23 Increase decrease in finished goods and work in progress 31 377 517 Royalties 2,790 2,104 1,539 Profit before taxation 1,211 1,838 1,277 b Amounts charged by jointly controlled entities 3,730 2,934 2,420 Taxation 507 737 491 Net foreign exchange gains losses 84 4 123 Profit for the year Rio Tinto share 704 1,101 786 Other external costs 2,901 3,304 3,127 a Sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes charges by equity accounted units to Group subsidiaries.
Provisions including exchange differences on provisions 27 961 907 930 Research and development 148 187 193 8 Finance income and finance costs Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation 836 140 136 2011 2010 2009 Note US$m US$m US$m Other operating income 396 174 376 Finance income from equity accounted units 35 33 36 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 36,260 35,262 32,255 Other finance income including bank deposits and other financial assets 80 130 84 a Refer to note b of the Group Income Statement for the reclassification of amounts in 2010 and 2009, previously included within sales revenue.
b Amounts charged by jointly controlled entities mainly relate to toll processing but also include purchases from jointly controlled entities of bauxite and aluminium which are then processed Total finance income 115 163 120 by the product group or sold to third parties.
Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Groups share of the jointly controlled entity but in 2011, US$849 million 2010: US$564 million: 2009: US$491 million related to purchases of the other venturers share of production.
a Interest payable and similar charges 990 853 1,127 Information on auditors remuneration is included in note 41. b Charges related to refinancing 107 Amounts capitalised 14 493 182 198 Total finance costs 497 778 929 a Interest payable and similar charges relate to interest on bank loans and other borrowings.
This includes a fair value gain on interest rate swaps designated as hedges of US$311 million and an offsetting fair value loss on bank borrowings attributable to interest rate risk of US$308 million 2010: fair value gain on the interest rate swaps of US$186 million and an offsetting fair value loss on bank borrowings attributable to interest rate risk of US$196 million: 2009: fair value loss on the interest rate swaps of US$59 million and an offsetting fair value gain on bank borrowings attributable to interest rate risk of US$59 million.
b Charges on the refinancing of bonds in October 2010 includes a cash premium of US$252 million, offset by non-cash mark to market hedge fair value adjustments of US$167 million note 31. riotinto.
com 157 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued 9 9 Taxation Taxation 10 10 Earnings l Earnings loss per ordinary share oss per ordinary share 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2 2011 011 2010 2010 No Note te US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Weig Weight hted ed Weig Weight hted ed aver averag age e 2 2011 011 Re Rest state ated d averag average e 2010 2010 Taxation Taxation charge charge 2 2011 011 nu numbe mber r Pe Per r sh share are 2010 2010 n nu umb mbe er r Per Per s sh ha ar re e Cu Curr rren ent t 6, 6,13 131 1 5, 5,026 026 2, 2,593 593 Earning Earnings s o of f s sha har re es s amo amou unfit nt E Ea ar rn nin ing gs s of of sh share ares s amo amou unfit nt US$m US$m mil milli lion ons s ce cen nts ts US US$m $m m mil illliio ons ns c ce en nts ts Deferred Deferred 19 19 30 308 8 270 270 517 517 Basic Basic ea earnings rnings per per sha shar re e attrib attributable utable t to o ordina ordinary ry s sh ha ar reho ehollders ders of of R Riio o Tinto Tinto 6, 6,43 439 9 5, 5,296 296 2, 2,076 076 con cont tin inui uing ng opera operat tion ions s 5, 5,83 836 6 1, 1,92 923 3.1.
0 Basic Basic lo loss ss per per sh shar are e attrib attributable utable to to o or rdina dinary ry share shareh holde olders of Rio Tinto rs of Rio Tinto Re Rest state ated d discont discontiinued nued op opera erat tions ions 1 10 0 1, 1,92 923 3.1.
1 P Pr rima ima facie facie tax tax reconciliation reconciliation US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Dil Dilu uted ted ear earn niin ng gs s p pe er r sh share are att attr ributab ibutablle e to to ordinary ordinary s sh ha ar re eh holders o olders of f Rio Rio Tint Tinto o Prof Profit it befo before re taxat taxatiion on 13 13,2, 21 14 4 20 20,491, 491 7, 7,860 860 con cont tin inui uing ng opera operat tion ions s 5, 5,83 836 6 1, 1,93 935 5.5.
7 Deduct: Deduct: share share of of p pr rofit ofit a af fter ta ter tax x of of equity equity acco accounted unted units units 70 704 4 1 1,101, 101 786 786 Dil Dilu uted ted loss loss pe per r s sh hare are att attr rib ibutable utable to to or ordina dinary ry sha shar reho eholld fide ers rs of of R Riio o Tinto Tinto a a Add: Add: impairment impairment af after ter tax tax o of f inve investme stments nts iin n equ equiit ty y acco accou un nted ted un units its 59 592 2 discont discontiinued nued op opera erat tions ions 1 10 0 1, 1,93 935 5.5.
9 c c Pare Parent nt companies companies and and s su ubsid bsidia iaries ries profit profit befo before re tax tax 13 13,1, 10 02 2 19 19,390, 390 7, 7,074 074 Total Total diluted diluted ea earnings rnings pe per r s sh hare are p pr ro of fit it fo for r the the y ye ea ar r 5, 5,82 826 6 1, 1,93 935 5.5.
8 Pr Prima ima fac facie ie ta tax x p pa ayable yable at at U UK K rate rate o of f 2 26 6% % 2010 2010, 2 200 009 9: : 2 28 8% % 3, 3,40 407 7 5, 5,429 429 1, 1,981 981 2009 2009 H Hiig gh he er r r ra ate o te of f ta tax xa at tiion on o on n A Au us str tra alliia an n e ea ar rn niin ng gs s a at 3 t 30 0% % 75 759 9 295 295 136 136 Weig Weight hted ed Item Items s excl excluded uded iin n arr arriiv viing ng at at Unde Underl rlyi ying ng ea earn rniin ngs gs:: averag average e 2009 2009 2009 2009 n nu umb mbe er r Per Per s sh ha are re IImpai mpair rme men nt t ch charg arge es s 1, 1,90 909 9 23 23 5 5 a a E Ea ar rn nin ing gs s of of sh share ares s amo amou unfit nt Gains Gains o on n disposal disposal of of bus busiines ness ses es a an nd d on on newl newly y consol consolida idated ted operatio operations ns 3 30 0 77 77 US US$m $m m mil illliio ons ns c ce en nts ts Foreign Foreign exc exch ha an nge ge on on intra-gro intra-grou up p ba balances lances 2 22 2 46 46 332 332 Basic Basic ea earnings rnings per per sha shar re e attrib attributable utable t to o ordina ordinary ry s sh ha ar reho ehollders ders of of R Riio Tinto o Tinto con cont tin inui uing ng opera operat tion ions s 5, 5,321 321 1, 1,763.6 763.6 301 301.7.
7 Foreign Foreign exc exch ha an nge ge on on external external debt debt 5 5 61 61 Basic Basic lo loss ss per per sh shar are e attrib attributable utable to to o or rdina dinar ry y sh shar are eh holde olders rs of of Rio Rio Tinto Tinto dis discont continued inued ope oper rat ations ions 449 449 1, 1,763.6 763.6 25 25.. 5 5 b b Foreig Foreign n exc exch ha an ng ge e on on der deriivat vatiives ves and and other other exc exclluded uded it items ems 2 2 17 17 25 25 Total Total bas basiic c ea earnings rnings per per s sh hare are p pr rof ofit it for for the the y ye ea ar r 4, 4,872 872 1, 1,763.6 763.6 276 276.2.
2 Impact Impact of of tax tax lla aw w changes changes o on n prev previo iousl usly y reco recognised gnised fide deferred ferred t ta ax x a assets ssets 34 342 2 Dil Dilu uted ted earnings earnings p pe er r share share att attr ributab ibutablle e to to ordinary ordinary s sh ha ar re eh holders olders o of f Rio Rio Tint Tinto o continuing continuing operat operations ions 5, 5,321 321 1, 1,769.6 769.6 300 300.7.
7 O Ot ther her excl exclus usions ions 9 91 1 13 13 5 5 Dil Dilu uted ted loss loss pe per r s sh hare are att attr rib ibutable utable to to ordina ordinary ry sha shar reho eholld fide ers rs of of R Riio o Tinto Tinto discont discontinued inued operat operations ions 449 449 1, 1,769.6 769.6 25 25.. 4 4 Adjustments Adjustments to to def defe erred rred ta tax x fo folllowi lowin ng g chan changes ges in in t tax ax rate rates s 2 20 0 96 96 22 22 c c Total Total diluted diluted ea earnings rnings pe per r s sh hare are p pr ro of fit it fo for r the the y ye ea ar r 4, 4,872 872 1, 1,769.6 769.6 275 275.3.
3 Other Other tax tax rate rates s app appllicable icable o ou uts tside ide the the UK UK a an nd d Austral Australiia a 11 112 2 110 110 113 113 a a The The 2009 2009 rig righ hts ts issues issues were were a at t a a discou discount nt to to th the e t th hen en marke market t pric price.
e. A Ac ccording cordinglly, y, earning earnings s p pe er r share share for for all all p pe eriods riods up up to to t the he date date on on whi whic ch h t th he e sha shares res were were iissued ssued h ha ave five be been en adjust adjusted ed for for t th he e bonus bonus Resource Resource deplet depletion ion and and othe other r deprec depreciation iation allowa allowances nces 18 182 2 163 163 132 132 element element of of t th he e issues.
T Th he e bon bonu us s fac fact tor or for for Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc was was 1 1.. 2105 2105 an and d for for Rio Rio Tin Tint to o Limi Limit ted ed was was 1.
1.2679 2679.. b b The The weig weigh ht ted ed averag average e n nu umber mber of of shares shares is is calc calculated ulated as as the the averag average e n nu umber mber of of Rio Rio Ti Tin nt to o plc plc shares shares outs outstandi tandin ng g not not h he eld ld as as t treasury reasury shares shares o of f 1 1, 487.
1,525.2 2 million: million: Research, Research, d deve evelopment lopment and and ot othe her r inv inve estm stme ent nt allowa allowance nces s 7 78 8 74 74 55 55 2009: 2009: 1,3 1,366.1 66.1 million million pl plus us t th he e a averag verage e n nu umber mber of of Rio Rio Tin Tint to o Limit Limited ed sh sha ar res es outsta outstanding nding not not hel held d by by Rio Rio Ti Tinto nto plc plc of of 435 435.8.
In In 2011 2011 an and d 2 2010, 010, Util Utilis isatio ation n of of p pr revio eviousl usly y u unreco nrecogn gnised ised deferred deferred t tax ax as assets sets 13 13 36 36 no no Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Limit Limited ed sh sha ar res es were were held held by by Rio Rio Tin Tint to o plc plc 31 31 Decemb December er 20 2010: 10: nil, nil, 3 31 1 D Dece ecem mb ber er 2 20 009: 09: 1 171.1 71.1 million.
c c For For t th he e pu purposes rposes of of c ca alcu lcullat atin ing g dilu dilut te ed d ear earn niin ng gs s per per sh share, are, t th he e ef effec fect t o of f dilutive dilutive securi securities ties of of 12.
12.4 4 million million shares shares iin n 2 20 011 11 201 2010: 0: 11.6 11.6 milli millio on n shar shares: es: 200 2009: 9: 6.0 6.0 million million sha shar res es is is adde added d to to t th he e wei weig ghted hted Un Unrecogn recognised ised c cu urr rrent ent y ye ea ar r operating operating losses losses 27 272 2 95 95 105 105 averag average e n nu umber mber o of f shar shares es des described cribed in in b b abov above.
e. T Th his is e effe ffect ct is is calc calculat ulated ed u un nder der the the tre trea asury sury st stock ock me method.
Th The e Gr Group oups s only only po pote tential ntial dilutiv dilutive e ordinary ordinary shares shares ar are e s sh hare are opt optiion ons s f for or wh whic ich h terms terms an and d Forei Foreig gn n e ex xch chan ange ge diffe difference rences s 3 3 63 63 167 167 conditi conditions ons ar are e describ describe ed d in in note note 46 46..
Withholding t Withholding ta axes xes 2 27 7 35 35 73 73 b b Non-taxable Non-taxable ga gains ins on on asset asset d diispos sposals als 208 208 11 11 Dividends Dividends O Ot ther her item items s 4 40 0 140 140 59 59 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 c c US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Total Total taxation taxation ch charge arge 6, 6,43 439 9 5, 5,296 296 2, 2,076 076 Rio Rio T Tiinto nto plc plc p pr rev evio ious us ye year ar F Fiinal final d diiv viide dend nd paid paid 95 955 5 686 686 670 670 a a Impairme Impairmen nt t of of iin nvest vestme men nts ts iin n eq equity uity ac accoun counted ted units units is is ne net t o of f tax tax credi credit ts s of of US$ US$349 349 million.
b b The The nonnon-taxable taxable g ga ains ins o on n asset asset disposals disposals in in 2009 2009 r re ella ate te to to und undevel evelo oped ped po potas tash h as ass se ets ts in in Ar Arg ge enti ntin na.
a. Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto plc Interi Interim m divide dividend nd paid paid 77 778 8 664 664 c c This This tax tax recon reconc ciliat iliation ion relat relate es s t to o the the Groups Groups pa parent rent compani companie es, s, subsidi subsidia aries ries and and proport proportionally ionally consolidat consolidated ed uni unit ts s.. Rio Rio Tinto Tinto L Liimited mited p pr revio evious us y ye ea ar r F Fiina final l div diviidend dend pa paid id 27 279 9 206 206 206 206 Rio Tin Rio Tinto L to Liimited mited Inte Interim div rim diviidend pa dend paid id 22 224 4 198 198 The The tax tax cre cred dit it charge charge relating relating to to c co om mponents ponents of of oth other er co compreh mprehe ensive nsive incom income e is is as as f fo ollo llows: ws: Dividends Dividends paid paid du during ring the the year year 2, 2,23 236 6 1, 1,754 754 876 876 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 Tota Total l Tot Tota all Tot Tota all US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Dividends Dividends per per sha shar re: e: paid paid during during th the e year year 11 117.
0c 55 55.. 6c 6c Tax Tax o on n exc exch han ange ge a ad djustm justme ent nts s 1 13 3 27 27 D Di ividends vidends per per share: share: proposed proposed in in th the e announcement announcement of of the the results results for for the the y ye ear ar 9 91.
0c 45 45.. 0c 0c Cash Cash flow flow hed hedg ge e fa fair ir val valu ue e losse losses ga s gaiins ns :: Cash Cash flow flow hedge hedge fai fair r va value lue g ga aiin ns s lo losses sses 2 24 4 24 24 97 97 D Di iv vi ide dend nds s Div Diviid fide ends nds Div Diviid fide ends nds Cash Cash flow flow hedge hedge losses losses t tr ran ansfe sferred rred t to o the the iin ncome come state statem ment ent 5 52 2 34 34 20 20 pe per r sha shar re e per per s sh ha ar re e per per s sh ha ar re e Losses g Losses gai ains ns o on n r re evalu valuatio ation n of of a av vai aila lab ble le for for s sa ale le sec secu ur riit tiies es 2 21 1 25 25 1 1 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 Gains Gains o on n reval revalu uat atio ion n of of av avai ailable lable fo for r sa sale le se securit curitiie es s t tr ra an nsf sferred erred to to t th he e inc income ome statement statement 1 1 1 1 1 1 Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc p pr rev evio ious us y ye ear ar F Fiinal final pe pen nc ce e 3 39.
85p Cur Curr renc ency y t tr ra an nslat slatio ion n recl reclass assiif fiied ed 3 3 Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto plc Interim pence Interim pence 3 33.
21p Actua Actuar riia al l lo losses sses on on post post reti retirem reme ent nt be benefit nefit p plla an ns s 56 567 7 216 216 232 232 Rio Rio T Tiinto nto L Liim miited ted p pr revio evious us yea year r F Fiina final l full fully y f fr ra an nk ke ed d at at 30 30% % Aust Austr ral alia ian n cent cents s 61 61.9.
97c Deferred Deferred tax tax o on n s sh hare are optio option ns s 5 55 5 47 47 50 50 Rio Rio T Tiinto nto L Liimited mited IIn nter teriim m full fully y f fr ra an nk ke ed d at at 30% 30% Au Aus str tral aliia an n cent cents s 49 49.8.
27c 46 468 8 256 256 359 359 Share Share of of t ta ax x on on ot other her comprehe comprehens nsive ive expense expense of of eq equit uity y a accounted ccounted units units 3 3 3 3 38 38 a a Tax Tax relating relating to to co components mponents of of othe other r comprehensive comprehensive income income for for the the ye year ar 46 465 5 253 253 321 321 a a This This comprises comprises d deferred eferred tax tax credits credits of of U US S$511 $511 million million 2010 2010: : US US$226 $226 mi million: llion: 2009 2009: : US US$319 $319 million million and and curren current t tax tax charg charge es s of of U US S$43 $43 million million 2 2010: 010: US$2 US$27 7 million million credit: credit: 200 2009: 9: U US S$2 $2 million million credi credit.
158 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 159 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 9 Taxation 10 Earnings loss per ordinary share 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 Note US$m US$m US$m Weighted Weighted average 2011 Restated average 2010 Taxation charge 2011 number Per share 2010 number Per share Current 6,131 5,026 2,593 Earnings of shares amount Earnings of shares amount US$m millions cents US$m millions cents Deferred 19 308 270 517 Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto 6,439 5,296 2,076 continuing operations 5,836 1,923.1 303.5 14,335 1,961.0 731.0 Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto Restated discontinued operations 10 1,923.1 0.5 97 1,961.0 4.9 b 2011 2010 2009 Total basic earnings per share profit for the year 5,826 1,923.1 303.0 14,238 1,961.0 726.1 Prima facie tax reconciliation US$m US$m US$m Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto Profit before taxation 13,214 20,491 7,860 continuing operations 5,836 1,935.5 301.5 14,335 1,972.6 726.7 Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 704 1,101 786 Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto a Add: impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units 592 discontinued operations 10 1,935.5 0.5 97 1,972.6 4.9 c Parent companies and subsidiaries profit before tax 13,102 19,390 7,074 Total diluted earnings per share profit for the year 5,826 1,935.5 301.0 14,238 1,972.6 721.8 Prima facie tax payable at UK rate of 26% 2010, 2009: 28% 3,407 5,429 1,981 2009 Higher rate of taxation on Australian earnings at 30% 759 295 136 Weighted Items excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings: average 2009 2009 number Per share Impairment charges 1,909 23 5 a Earnings of shares amount Gains on disposal of businesses and on newly consolidated operations 30 77 US$m millions cents Foreign exchange on intra-group balances 22 46 332 Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 5,321 1,763.6 301.7 Foreign exchange on external debt 5 61 Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 449 1,763.6 25.5 b Foreign exchange on derivatives and other excluded items 2 17 25 Total basic earnings per share profit for the year 4,872 1,763.6 276.2 Impact of tax law changes on previously recognised deferred tax assets 342 Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 5,321 1,769.6 300.7 Other exclusions 91 13 5 Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 449 1,769.6 25.4 Adjustments to deferred tax following changes in tax rates 20 96 22 c Total diluted earnings per share profit for the year 4,872 1,769.6 275.3 Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia 112 110 113 a The 2009 rights issues were at a discount to the then market price.
Accordingly, earnings per share for all periods up to the date on which the shares were issued have been adjusted for the bonus Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 182 163 132 element of the issues.
The bonus factor for Rio Tinto plc was 1.2105 and for Rio Tinto Limited was 1.2679. b The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,487.3 million 2010: 1,525.2 million: Research, development and other investment allowances 78 74 55 2009: 1,366.1 million plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding not held by Rio Tinto plc of 435.8 million 2010: 435.8 million: 2009: 397.5 million.
In 2011 and 2010, Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 13 36 no Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc 31 December 2010: nil, 31 December 2009: 171.1 million.
c For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of 12.4 million shares in 2011 2010: 11.6 million shares: 2009: 6.0 million shares is added to the weighted Unrecognised current year operating losses 272 95 105 average number of shares described in b above.
This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method.
The Groups only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share options for which terms and Foreign exchange differences 3 63 167 conditions are described in note 46.
Withholding taxes 27 35 73 b Non-taxable gains on asset disposals 208 11 Dividends Other items 40 140 59 2011 2010 2009 c US$m US$m US$m Total taxation charge 6,439 5,296 2,076 Rio Tinto plc previous year Final dividend paid 955 686 670 a Impairment of investments in equity accounted units is net of tax credits of US$349 million.
b The non-taxable gains on asset disposals in 2009 relate to undeveloped potash assets in Argentina.
Rio Tinto plc Interim dividend paid 778 664 c This tax reconciliation relates to the Groups parent companies, subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units.
Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final dividend paid 279 206 206 Rio Tinto Limited Interim dividend paid 224 198 The tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: Dividends paid during the year 2,236 1,754 876 2011 2010 2009 Total Total Total US$m US$m US$m Dividends per share: paid during the year 117.0c 90.0c 55.6c Tax on exchange adjustments 13 27 Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 91.0c 63.0c 45.0c Cash flow hedge fair value losses gains : Cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 24 24 97 Dividends Dividends Dividends Cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 52 34 20 per share per share per share Losses gains on revaluation of available for sale securities 21 25 1 2011 2010 2009 Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 1 1 1 Rio Tinto plc previous year Final pence 39.14p 28.84p 37.85p Currency translation reclassified 3 Rio Tinto plc Interim pence 33.14p 28.21p Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans 567 216 232 Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final fully franked at 30% Australian cents 61.94c 51.56c 82.97c Deferred tax on share options 55 47 50 Rio Tinto Limited Interim fully franked at 30% Australian cents 49.81c 49.27c 468 256 359 Share of tax on other comprehensive expense of equity accounted units 3 3 38 a Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income for the year 465 253 321 a This comprises deferred tax credits of US$511 million 2010: US$226 million: 2009: US$319 million and current tax charges of US$43 million 2010: US$27 million credit: 2009: US$2 million credit.
com 159 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued Alumin Aluminium ium 11 11 Dividends c Dividends continued ontinued Rio Rio Ti Tinto nto Al Alcan can a an nd d Oth Othe er r op oper eratio ation ns s N Nu um mb ber er Nu Num mb ber er Nu Num mb ber er The The majority majority of of th the e Grou Group ps s goo good dwil will l relate relates s to to the the alum aluminium inium cashcash-generating generating units units he held ld in in the the Alu Alum minium inium pr product oduct group group and and O Ot th her er o op perati eratio ons ns produ product ct o of f sh sha ar re es s of of sh share ares s of of sh share ares s 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 group.
A A large large c co omponent mponent of of the the c ca arrying rrying value value relates relates to to the the for form mer A er Allcan can businesses businesses purchased purchased in in 2007.
2007. mil milli lion ons s m mil illliio ons ns m mil illliio ons ns The The annua annuall im imp pai air rm me ent nt review review of of al alum uminium inium resulted resulted in in an an im impa pairment irment of of U US S$7,405 $7,405 m miillion llion to to go goodwill odwill 20 2010 10 and and 2009: 2009: no no im impairme pairment nt charg charge e, , Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc p pr rev evio ious us y ye ear ar F Fiinal final 1 1, 5 522.
22.6 6 1, 1,524.8 524.8 1, 1,208.4 208.4 of of which which US$6,586 US$6,586 million million rela relates tes to to the the Al Aluminium uminium product product group group an and d US US$81 $819 9 million million relates relates to to the the Ot Oth he er r operations operations pr product oduct group.
The The recov recove erable rable Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto plc Interim Interim 1 1, 4 479.
79.5 5 1, 1,526.0 526.0 amount amount has has be been en assesse assessed d by by ref refe erence rence to to fair fair value value less less c co osts sts to to s se ell, ll, usi usin ng g discounted discounted cash cash flows, flows, iin n line line with with the the policy policy in in note note 1 i.
1 i. Rio Rio Tinto Tinto L Liimited mited p pr revio evious us y ye ea ar r F Fiina final l 4 435 35.. 8 8 435 435.8.
3 Fair Fair value value less less co costs sts t to o sell sell was was fide det te ermined rmined by by es estim tima ating ting cash cash flows flows u un ntil til the the en end d of of the the life life of of ea eac ch h s siit te e b ba as sed ed on on l lon ong g- -ter term m pr production oduction pla plan ns, s, Rio Tinto L Rio Tinto Liimi mited ted Interim Interim 4 435 35.. 8 8 435 435.8.
8 including including closure closure restoration restoration and and environm environmental ental clea cleann-up up cos cost ts.
s. Alum Alumiin nium ium benefits benefits fro from m a a gl global obal mar mark ket etplace place with with subs substa tantial ntial b barrier arriers s to to e en ntry try and and The The dividends dividends pai paid d in in 2011 2011 are are bas base ed d on on th the e f fo ollow llowin ing g US US c ce ents nts per per sh share are amounts amounts: : 201 2010 0 final final 63.0 63.0 cent cents, s, 2011 2011 interim interim 54.0 54.0 cents cents 20 2010 10 dividends dividends there there are are a a limit limite ed d numb numbe er r of of co com mp petit etitors ors wh who o are are a ab ble le to to a access ccess effe effectively ctively the the k ke ey y res reso ources urces nec nece essary ssary to to mak make e alu alum minium.
In In addit addition, ion, c co ontinued ntinued paid: paid: 2009 2009 final final 45.0 45.0 cent cents s, 2010 2010 iin nteri terim m 45.0: 45.0: 200 2009 9 dividends dividends paid: paid: 2008 2008 fina final l 55.6 55.6 cents, cents, 2009 2009 inter interim im nil.
global global industrialisation industrialisation is is expected expected to to support support dem deman and d for for alu alum minium inium in in the the long long ter term m..
The The industry industry has has howev howeve er r been been running running su surpluses rpluses in in p pr roductio oduction n for for the the past past fiv five e y ye ears.
With With Ch Chines inese e pro prod duction uction s st till ill tracking tracking dem demand and in in China, China, LME LME inventory inventory is is rising, rising, ne negatively gatively im impa pacting prices cting prices..
This This is is d fide ellay ayiing ng the the The The numb numbe er r of of sh shares ares on on which which Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc dividend dividends s are are bas base ed d exclu exclud des es those those h he eld ld as as treasury treasury shares.
The The numb numbe er r of of sha shar res es on on which which the the Rio Rio Tinto Tinto alum aluminium inium industrys industrys investm investme ent nt in in growth growth pr projects ojects f fo or r new new capacity.
A A current current m ma ar rk ket et participants participants view view of of fair fair value value m miight ght no not t include include the the fu full ll value value Limited Limited dividen dividend ds s are are based based excludes excludes those those shares shares hel held d by by Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc 2011: 2011: nil, nil, 2010: 2010: nil, nil, 2009: 2009: 171.1 171.1 million, million, in in order order t that hat they they repre repres sent ent th those ose of of planne planned d im improv provem ement ents s in in cash cash m margi argin ns s fr from om existi existing ng operations operations and and fr from om the the suc succ cess essf ful ul imple implem menta entatio tion n of of growth growth projec projects.
paid paid t to o pub public lic sha shar reholders.
The The key key as assump sumptions tions to to which which the the calculation calculation of of fair fair value value less less cos cost ts s t to o sell sell for for alu alum minium inium is is m mo ost st sensitiv sensitive e are are the the alu alum minium inium price: price: the the Can Cana adian dian dollar dollar In In addition, addition, the the directors directors of of Rio Rio Tinto Tinto announced announced a a fin final al divi dividend dend of of 91.
91.0 0 cents cents per per share share on on 9 9 February February 2012.
This This is is expec expect ted ed to to result result in in pay paym ments ents and and Austral Australian ian dol dollar lar exchange exchange rat rate es s against against the the U US S d do ollar: llar: opera operating ting co costs: sts: and and disc disco ount unfit rates.
These These a assumpti ssumptions ons have have be bee en n es estima timated ted in in line line with with the the of of US$1,704 US$1,704 million million Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc: plc: U US S$1, $1,307 307 million, million, Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Li Limited mited U US S$397 $397 million.
T Th he e dividends dividends will will be be paid paid on on 12 12 Apri Aprill 2012 2012 to to Ri Rio o Tinto Tinto plc plc policy policy in in note note 1 i.
1 i. shareholders shareholders on on the the register register at at the the close close of of business business on on 2 2 March March 2012 2012 and and to to Rio Rio Tint Tinto o L Liimited mited shareholders shareholders on on the the r re egister gister at at the the clos close e of of bu business siness on on 6 6 March March 2012.
Key Key a assu ssumpt mpti ions ons Alum Alumiin nium ium pr prices ices The The prop propose osed d Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Limi Limit te ed d dividends dividends will will b be e fran franked ked out out of of existing existing franking franking cred credits its or or ou out t of of franking franking credits credits arising arising fr from om th the e pay paym ment ent of of incom income e Short Short term term prices prices are are consisten consistent t wit with h mark market et observa observable ble prices, prices, thereaf thereaft ter er they they are are transi transitioned tioned to to a a longlong-t term erm price price bas base ed d o on n detaile detailed d analy analys siis s of of tax tax during during 2012.
2012. market market funda fundam men entals.
Both Both prices prices a an nd d margin margins s are are kept kept c co onstant nstant in in real real ter term ms s from from 2021 2021 onwards.
Alumina Alumina prices prices are are not not consider considered ed a a key key as assumption sumption The The approxi approxim mat ate e amount amount of of th the e Ri Rio o Tinto Tinto Limit Limite ed d con cons solidate olidated d tax tax grou group ps s retained retained profit profits s and and res rese erves rves th that at coul could d b be e dis dist tribute ributed d as as dividend dividends s and and as as they they are are fide deter term mined ined as as a a perce percen ntage tage of of A Aluminium luminium pric prices.
For For th the e purposes purposes of of s se ens nsitivities itivities any any reasonab reasonable le possibl possible e cha chan nges ges c consider onsider mo movements vements franked franked out out of of credits, credits, that that ar aros ose e from from net net pay paym ments ents of of income income tax tax in in respect respect of of periods periods u up p to to 31 31 D fide ece cember mber 2011 2011 a after fter dedu deductin cting g franking franking credits credits in in both both c co om mm modit oditiies es as as a a resu resullt t of of t th his is relationship.
expec expect ted ed t to o b be e uti utilised lised on on the the 201 2011 1 fina final l dividend dividend d fide ecl clared, ared, is is US$7,604 US$7,604 million.
The The longlong-t term erm alum aluminium inium price price f fo or r iim mpairment pairment testin testing g purposes purposes has has decreased decreased by by three three per per cent cent in in real real te terms rms c co om mp pared ared to to prior prior y year, ear, and and wa was s within within the the range range pu published blished by by mar mark ket et commen commenta tators tors of of US$ US$2 2,180, 180 and and US$2, US$2,6 644 44 per per to tonne, nne, with with an an ave aver rage age of of U US S$2,394 $2,394 pe per r t tonne, onne, albeit albeit a at t th the e u upp ppe er r en end d 12 12 Goodwill Goodwill of of this this range.
Whil While e the the long-t long-term erm p pr rice ice a assump ssumption tion w wa as s near near the the to top p en end d of of the the range, range, th the e m ma arket rket co com mm me en ntator tator prices prices excl exclude ude th the e im impact pact of of carbon carbon Re Rest state ated d pricing, pricing, while while our our long-ter long-term m pric prices es iin nclude clude an an ele elem men ent t of of carbon carbon pricing pricing see see note note 1 i 1 i.. T Th his is price price is is bas base ed d on on an an assess assessm me ent nt of of future future clima climat te e policy policy 2 2011 011 2010 2010 evolution evolution and and the the range range of of carbon carbon prices prices that that could could re result sult from from this this pro proc cess.
US$m US$m US US$m $m Forei Foreig gn n e ex xch chan ange ge r ra ates tes Net Net book book value value In In the the fide deter term mination ination of of fair fair value value le less ss cos cost ts s t to o sel sell, l, th the e Grou Group p uses uses the the 30-day 30-day moving moving av average erage sp spot ot excha exchan nge ge rates, rates, k ke ep pt t c co onst nstant ant in in real real t te er rm ms, s, At At 1 1 Jan Janu ua ar ry y 1 15, 5,316 316 14 14,268, 268 as as a a proxy proxy f fo or r lon long g- -t ter erm m future future exchanges exchanges ra rates.
F For or those those currencies currencies that that show show a a stro strong ng correlation correlation with with world world com comm modity odity price prices, s, spe spec cifically ifically A Ad djju us st tmen ment t on on curr curren ency cy tra tran ns slla at tiio on n 40 404 4 72 72 the the Australian Australian an and d Canadian Canadian d do ollar, llar, the the s spot pot exchang exchange e rate rate is is adjuste adjusted d to to ensure ensure consist consiste ency ncy with with the the Gro Grou up ps s view view of of longlong-t term erm co com mm modity odity prices.
Newly Newly conso consolid lidated ated operatio operations ns 68 680 0 983 983 These These long long run run ex exchange change rate rate as assum sumpti ptions ons are are a appli pplie ed d from from 201 2014.
From From th the e 30-day 30-day m mo oving ving av average erage spot spot exchange exchange rate rate as as at at the the mea measurement surement da date te Dispos Disposals als 7 7 the the Gr Group oup assu assumes mes a a linear linear annual annual increase increase in in the the strength strength of of the the US US dollar dollar ov over er th the e period period to to 2014.
To To d deter eterm min ine e the the long long run run exchange exchange rat rate es s used used Im Impai pair rm me ent nt ch char arge ges s 7, 7,40 405 5 for for the the iim mpairment pairment assess assessmen ment t, an an adjustmen adjustment t fac factor tor of of 0.93 0.93 w wa as s use used d on on the the 30 30 day day mo moving ving averag average e spo spot t exchange exchange rate rate for for the the Au Australian stralian an and d At At 31 31 Decem Decembe ber r 8, 8,18 187 7 15 15,316, 316 Canadian Canadian dollar.
cost cost 2 22, 2,125 125 21 21,906, 906 Post-tax Post-tax d diiscou scount nt r ra ates tes accumulated accumulated impairment impairment 13 13, 9 938 38 6 6,590, 590 In In arrivi arriving ng at at fair fair value value less less cos cost ts s to to se sell, ll, a a post-tax post-tax discount discount rate rate of of 6.6 6.6 per per c ce ent nt 2010: 2010: 6.
6.5 5 per per cent cent has has been been applied applied to to the the post post- -tax tax cash cash flo flow ws s expresse expressed d in in real real terms.
The The discou discount nt rate rate us used ed has has b been een increase increased d by by a a pre prem mium ium of of b be et tw ween een one one and and fou four r per per c ce ent nt for for op operations erations in in countries countries with with At At 1 1 Jan Janu ua ar ry y a a higher higher risk risk profil profile.
e. cost cost 2 21, 1,906 906 20 20,854, 854 Oper Operatin ating g cost costs s accumulated accumulated impairment impairment 6, 6,59 590 0 6 6,586, 586 Opera Operat ting ing costs costs a ar re e base based d on on longlong-t term erm produ produc ct tion ion p plans lans and and kn known own c co ost st iim mprove provem ment ent stra strategies.
Underl Underly yiing ng input input cost cost as assumption sumptions s are are consistent consistent with with relate related d outp output ut price price assu assump mptions.
As As note noted d a ab bo ov five, e, ma margins rgins are are as assumed sumed to to re remain main constant constant from from 20 2021 21 onwards.
Impairment Impairment tests tests for for goodwill goodwill G Goodwill oodwill se sensit nsitiv ivit ity y anal analys ysis is At At 31 31 D fide ece cemb mber er 2 2011, 011, goodwill goodwill has has been been all allo oca cated ted as as follows: follows: Any Any adverse adverse chan change ge to to any any of of the the key key assump assumptions tions w wo ould uld lea lead d to to a a furt further her impairm impairme ent.
It It is is esti estimate mated d tha that t adverse adverse changes changes iin n ke key y assu assumpti mptions ons would would 2 2011 011 2010 2010 lead lead to to the the f fo ollowi llowing ng decreas decrease es s in in fa fair ir value value less less costs costs to to s se ell ll wh which ich m may ay lead lead to to a a further further iim mpa pairm irme ent nt t to o go goo od dwill will and and prop propert erty y, plant plant and and equip equipm ment ent US$m US$m US US$m $m within within the the alumini aluminiu um m cash-g cash-generati eneratin ng g units: units: Net Net book book value value U US$ S$ bi bill llio ion n Alumi Alumin nium ium 5, 5,86 864 4 13 13,678, 678 0.5% 0.5% inc incr rease ease in in d diiscount scount rate rate app applied lied to to post-tax post-tax cas cash h fl flows ows 2.2 2.2 Copper Copper Oy Oyu u To Tolgoi lgoi note note 39 39 98 983 3 983 983 5% 5% decrease decrease in in a allu um mini iniu um m and and alum alumiin na a pr prices ices 5.
5.7 7 Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Coa Coall Moz Moza ambique mbique n note ote 39 39 53 530 0 5% 5% strengthe strengthen ning ing of of local local c cu urrenc rrenciies es 2.9 2.9 Oth Othe er r 81 810 0 655 655 5% 5% inc incr rease ease in in ope oper rat atin ing g costs costs 6.3 6.3 8, 8,18 187 7 15 15,316, 316 Each Each of of the the s se ensit nsitivities ivities above above was was det dete ermined rmined assu assuming ming the the rel refile evant vant key key assu assump mption tion mov move ed d in in is isola olat tio ion, n, except except where where mo modify difying ing the the alum aluminium inium price price directly directly affe affects cts the the price price assumptio assumption n for for cert certain ain inpu input t costs costs and and fur further ther assumes assumes that that th the er re e is is no no mitigating mitigating action action by by manag manage em ment.
160 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 161 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Aluminium 11 Dividends continued Rio Tinto Alcan and Other operations Number Number Number The majority of the Groups goodwill relates to the aluminium cash-generating units held in the Aluminium product group and Other operations product of shares of shares of shares 2011 2010 2009 group.
A large component of the carrying value relates to the former Alcan businesses purchased in 2007. millions millions millions The annual impairment review of aluminium resulted in an impairment of US$7,405 million to goodwill 2010 and 2009: no impairment charge, Rio Tinto plc previous year Final 1,522.6 1,524.8 1,208.4 of which US$6,586 million relates to the Aluminium product group and US$819 million relates to the Other operations product group.
The recoverable Rio Tinto plc Interim 1,479.5 1,526.0 amount has been assessed by reference to fair value less costs to sell, using discounted cash flows, in line with the policy in note 1 i. Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final 435.8 435.8 362.3 Fair value less costs to sell was determined by estimating cash flows until the end of the life of each site based on long-term production plans, Rio Tinto Limited Interim 435.8 435.8 including closure restoration and environmental clean-up costs.
Aluminium benefits from a global marketplace with substantial barriers to entry and The dividends paid in 2011 are based on the following US cents per share amounts: 2010 final 63.0 cents, 2011 interim 54.0 cents 2010 dividends there are a limited number of competitors who are able to access effectively the key resources necessary to make aluminium.
In addition, continued paid: 2009 final 45.0 cents, 2010 interim 45.0: 2009 dividends paid: 2008 final 55.6 cents, 2009 interim nil.
global industrialisation is expected to support demand for aluminium in the long term.
The industry has however been running surpluses in production for the past five years.
With Chinese production still tracking demand in China, LME inventory is rising, negatively impacting prices.
This is delaying the The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes those held as treasury shares.
The number of shares on which the Rio Tinto aluminium industrys investment in growth projects for new capacity.
A current market participants view of fair value might not include the full value Limited dividends are based excludes those shares held by Rio Tinto plc 2011: nil, 2010: nil, 2009: 171.1 million, in order that they represent those of planned improvements in cash margins from existing operations and from the successful implementation of growth projects.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of fair value less costs to sell for aluminium is most sensitive are the aluminium price: the Canadian dollar In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 91.0 cents per share on 9 February 2012.
This is expected to result in payments and Australian dollar exchange rates against the US dollar: operating costs: and discount rates.
These assumptions have been estimated in line with the of US$1,704 million Rio Tinto plc: US$1,307 million, Rio Tinto Limited US$397 million.
The dividends will be paid on 12 April 2012 to Rio Tinto plc policy in note 1 i. shareholders on the register at the close of business on 2 March 2012 and to Rio Tinto Limited shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 March 2012.
Key assumptions Aluminium prices The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of income Short term prices are consistent with market observable prices, thereafter they are transitioned to a long-term price based on detailed analysis of tax during 2012. market fundamentals.
Both prices and margins are kept constant in real terms from 2021 onwards.
Alumina prices are not considered a key assumption The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax groups retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as dividends and as they are determined as a percentage of Aluminium prices.
For the purposes of sensitivities any reasonable possible changes consider movements franked out of credits, that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2011 after deducting franking credits in both commodities as a result of this relationship.
expected to be utilised on the 2011 final dividend declared, is US$7,604 million.
The long-term aluminium price for impairment testing purposes has decreased by three per cent in real terms compared to prior year, and was within the range published by market commentators of US$2,180 and US$2,644 per tonne, with an average of US$2,394 per tonne, albeit at the upper end 12 Goodwill of this range.
While the long-term price assumption was near the top end of the range, the market commentator prices exclude the impact of carbon Restated pricing, while our long-term prices include an element of carbon pricing see note 1 i.
This price is based on an assessment of future climate policy 2011 2010 evolution and the range of carbon prices that could result from this process.
US$m US$m Foreign exchange rates Net book value In the determination of fair value less costs to sell, the Group uses the 30-day moving average spot exchange rates, kept constant in real terms, At 1 January 15,316 14,268 as a proxy for long-term future exchanges rates.
For those currencies that show a strong correlation with world commodity prices, specifically Adjustment on currency translation 404 72 the Australian and Canadian dollar, the spot exchange rate is adjusted to ensure consistency with the Groups view of long-term commodity prices.
Newly consolidated operations 680 983 These long run exchange rate assumptions are applied from 2014.
From the 30-day moving average spot exchange rate as at the measurement date Disposals 7 the Group assumes a linear annual increase in the strength of the US dollar over the period to 2014.
To determine the long run exchange rates used Impairment charges 7,405 for the impairment assessment, an adjustment factor of 0.93 was used on the 30 day moving average spot exchange rate for the Australian and At 31 December 8,187 15,316 Canadian dollar.
cost 22,125 21,906 Post-tax discount rates accumulated impairment 13,938 6,590 In arriving at fair value less costs to sell, a post-tax discount rate of 6.6 per cent 2010: 6.5 per cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
The discount rate used has been increased by a premium of between one and four per cent for operations in countries with At 1 January a higher risk profile.
cost 21,906 20,854 Operating costs accumulated impairment 6,590 6,586 Operating costs are based on long-term production plans and known cost improvement strategies.
Underlying input cost assumptions are consistent with related output price assumptions.
As noted above, margins are assumed to remain constant from 2021 onwards.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill sensitivity analysis At 31 December 2011, goodwill has been allocated as follows: Any adverse change to any of the key assumptions would lead to a further impairment.
It is estimated that adverse changes in key assumptions would 2011 2010 lead to the following decreases in fair value less costs to sell which may lead to a further impairment to goodwill and property, plant and equipment US$m US$m within the aluminium cash-generating units: Net book value US$ billion Aluminium 5,864 13,678 0.5% increase in discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 2.2 Copper Oyu Tolgoi note 39 983 983 5% decrease in aluminium and alumina prices 5.7 Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique note 39 530 5% strengthening of local currencies 2.9 Other 810 655 5% increase in operating costs 6.3 8,187 15,316 Each of the sensitivities above was determined assuming the relevant key assumption moved in isolation, except where modifying the aluminium price directly affects the price assumption for certain input costs and further assumes that there is no mitigating action by management.
com 161 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 12 Goodwill continued 13 Intangible assets Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other Oyu Tolgoi and non patented intangible intangible a b d Goodwill of US$983 million arose following consolidation on 15 December 2010 of Oyu Tolgoi LLC of which US$881 million was calculated in accordance evaluation technology assets assets Total with the requirement in IFRS to recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and Year ended 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m their tax base.
Net book value At 1 January 2011 307 259 4,537 597 5,700 Oyu Tolgois annual impairment review resulted in no impairment charge for 2011 2010: no impairment charge.
The recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to fair value less costs to sell, in line with the policy in note 1 i.
For the purposes of testing goodwill on Oyu Tolgoi Adjustment on currency translation 14 6 79 4 75 for impairment, deferred tax liabilities recognised on consolidation are included in the aggregate net assets against which the provisional fair Expenditure during the year 248 161 409 c value is compared.
Amortisation for the year 24 123 167 314 Impairment charges 1 11 12 In arriving at fair value less costs to sell, a country specific post-tax discount rate of 8.7 per cent, including the appropriate country risk premium, has Newly consolidated operations note 39 2,425 2,425 been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
Fair value less costs to sell was determined by estimating cash flows until the end of the life of mine plan.
Disposals, transfers and other movements 137 41 178 At 31 December 2011 2,857 228 4,335 535 7,955 The key assumptions to which the calculation of fair value less costs to sell for Oyu Tolgoi is most sensitive are the timing of a reliable supply of power, cost 2,857 361 5,436 1,106 9,760 the long-term copper prices and discount rates.
Other key assumptions include the long-term gold price: Mongolian Tugrik and Chinese Yuan exchange accumulated amortisation and impairment 133 1,101 571 1,805 rates against the US dollar: and operating costs.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy in note 1 i.
Based on the assessment of fair value less costs to sell, the resultant recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value of all assets by approximately ten per cent.
Trademarks, Contract patented and based Other If the timing of reliable power supply is delayed, this could have an adverse impact upon the recoverable amount estimated to be up to US$900 million Exploration non patented intangible intangible based on the delay in commencing full production, eliminating the excess above carrying value and resulting in an estimated US$200 million a b d and evaluation technology assets assets Total impairment to goodwill.
Year ended 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value A five per cent decrease in the long-term copper price, in isolation, would lead to the fair value less costs to sell being equal to its carrying amount.
An eight per cent increase in the discount rate, in isolation, would also lead to the fair value less costs to sell being equal to its carrying amount.
At 1 January 2010 145 289 4,802 494 5,730 Adjustment on currency translation 25 5 1 52 71 Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique formerly Riversdale Mining Limited Expenditure during the year 143 186 329 c The Group acquired a controlling interest in Riversdale Mining Limited on 8 April 2011.
Goodwill of US$530 million arose in accordance with the Amortisation for the year 25 167 177 369 requirement in IFRS to recognise deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities Subsidiaries now equity accounted 38 38 and their tax base.
The recognition of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambiques identifiable assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position was based on Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 7 7 fair values at the acquisition date with the assistance of an independent third party valuer.
These fair values are provisional and will be finalised within Disposals, transfers and other movements 6 90 4 92 one year of the acquisition.
At 31 December 2010 307 259 4,537 597 5,700 Refer to note 39 for further information relating to the consolidation of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique.
cost 307 370 5,525 1,373 7,575 accumulated amortisation and amortisation 111 988 776 1,875 Other a Exploration and evaluation: useful life not determined until transferred to property, plant & equipment.
Other goodwill includes US$506 million 2010: US$507 million relating to Australian Iron Ore which comprises the business units located in the Pilbara b The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights.
The water rights are expected to contribute to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation.
These water rights region of Western Australia that mine iron ore, namely Robe River and Hamersley Iron.
The recoverability of the Other goodwill has been assessed by constitute the majority of the amounts in the column of the above table entitled Contract based intangible assets.
The water rights have been allocated to cash-generating units within aluminium.
reference to fair value less costs to sell using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy in note 1 i.
The recoverable amounts were In 2011, the recoverable amount of these cash-generating units was determined based on fair value less costs to sell, using a methodology and assumptions consistent with those described in note determined to be in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill 1 i and note 12.
No impairment of these indefinite-lived intangible assets was recognised during 2011, as the fair value less costs to sell of the related cash-generating units was in excess of their carrying amounts.
to be impaired by a significant amount.
c Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Where amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis, the following useful lives have been determined: Trademark, patented and non-patented technology Trademarks: 14 to 20 years Patented and non-patented technology: 10 to 20 years Other intangible assets Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: 2 to 5 years Other intangible assets: 2 to 20 years Contract based intangible assets Power contracts: 2 to 39 years Other purchase and customer contracts: 5 to 15 years d There are no intangible assets either pledged as security or held under restriction of title.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m Net expenditure proceeds in the year net of proceeds of US$52 million 2010: US$568 million: 2009: US$932 million on disposal of undeveloped projects 1,604 135 486 Changes in accruals including impairment of undeveloped projects of US$37 million 2010: nil: 2009: nil and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects 8 80 104 Amount capitalised during the year 248 143 2 Net charge credit for the year 1,348 72 380 Reconciliation to income statement Exploration and evaluation costs 1,437 594 514 Profit on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 89 522 894 Net charge credit for the year 1,348 72 380 162 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 12 Goodwill continued 13 Intangible assets Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other Oyu Tolgoi and non patented intangible intangible a b d Goodwill of US$983 million arose following consolidation on 15 December 2010 of Oyu Tolgoi LLC of which US$881 million was calculated in accordance evaluation technology assets assets Total with the requirement in IFRS to recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and Year ended 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m their tax base.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m Net expenditure proceeds in the year net of proceeds of US$52 million 2010: US$568 million: 2009: US$932 million on disposal of undeveloped projects 1,604 135 486 Changes in accruals including impairment of undeveloped projects of US$37 million 2010: nil: 2009: nil and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects 8 80 104 Amount capitalised during the year 248 143 2 Net charge credit for the year 1,348 72 380 Reconciliation to income statement Exploration and evaluation costs 1,437 594 514 Profit on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 89 522 894 Net charge credit for the year 1,348 72 380 riotinto.
com 163 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment 15 Investments in equity accounted units Mining Restated properties Land and Plant and Capital works 2011 2010 a b and leases buildings equipment in progress Total Summary statement of financial position Rio Tinto share US$m US$m Year ended 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Rio Tintos share of assets Net book value Non-current assets 11,598 10,089 At 1 January 2011 14,029 6,299 28,615 7,081 56,024 Current assets 3,048 2,576 Adjustment on currency translation 96 88 354 189 727 14,646 12,665 Capitalisation of additional closure costs note 27 2,835 2,835 Rio Tintos share of liabilities c Interest capitalised note 8 493 493 Current liabilities 2,084 1,394 Additions 178 114 981 10,652 11,925 Non-current liabilities 2,729 4,416 a d Depreciation for the year 672 321 2,510 3,503 4,813 5,810 e a Impairment charges, net of reversals 142 91 956 568 1,757 Rio Tintos share of net assets 9,833 6,855 Disposals 12 66 33 111 a Further details of investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are set out in notes 36 and 37.
Refer to note 39 on the 2011 acquisition of Riversdale Mining Limited, and additional interests in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. purchased during the year.
Newly consolidated operations note 39 19 19 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 90 68 118 6 282 At 31 December 2011, the quoted value of the Groups share in associates having shares listed on recognised stock exchanges was US$6,412 million f Transfers and other movements 433 302 1,521 2,205 51 2010: US$5,280 million.
At 31 December 2011 16,475 6,135 27,132 15,225 64,967 cost 22,186 9,327 48,080 16,558 96,151 16 Net debt of equity accounted units excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto accumulated depreciation and impairment 5,711 3,192 20,948 1,333 31,184 Rio Tinto Rio Tinto share of share of g Group net debt Group net debt Non-current assets held under finance leases 18 24 42 h interest funds interest funds Other non-current assets pledged as security 13 29 1,674 977 2,693 2011 2011 2010 2010 % US$m % US$m Jointly controlled entities Mining properties Land and Plant and Capital works Sohar Aluminium Company LLC 20.0 393 20.0 330 a b and leases buildings equipment in progress Total Minera Escondida Limitada 30.0 142 30.0 163 Year ended 31 December 2010 Restated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Richards Bay Minerals 37.0 46 37.0 94 Net book value Halco Mining Inc. 45.0 20 45.0 27 At 1 January 2010 6,738 5,958 25,595 7,512 45,803 Queensland Alumina Limited QAL 80.0 17 80.0 11 Adjustment on currency translation 785 214 1,810 541 3,350 Constellium Holdco B. V 39.0 22 Capitalisation of additional closure costs note 27 872 872 c Interest capitalised note 8 182 182 Associates Additions 170 171 829 3,117 4,287 d a Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. 49.0 278 40.3 404 Depreciation for the year 432 320 2,316 3,068 Port Waratah Coal Services 29.2 362 27.6 305 Impairment charges, net of reversals 66 248 314 277 773 Minerao Rio do Norte S. A.
12.0 25 12.0 39 Disposals 17 77 6 100 Newly consolidated operations note 39 4,881 874 5,755 Other equity accounted units 156 86 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 2 18 11 1 28 f 549 479 Transfers and other movements 947 559 3,099 4,861 256 a In accordance with IAS 28 and IAS 31, the Group includes its net investment in equity accounted units in its consolidated statement of financial position.
This investment is net of the Groups share At 31 December 2010 14,029 6,299 28,615 7,081 56,024 of the net debt of such units, which is set out above.
Further details of investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are set out in notes 36 and 37. cost 19,173 9,289 47,374 7,955 83,791 b Some of the debt of equity accounted units is subject to financial and general covenants.
c As at 31 December 2011, US$15 million of the debt shown above is with recourse to Rio Tinto, with a maximum exposure of $5m 2010: US$12 million with maximum exposure of $5m.
accumulated depreciation and impairment 5,144 2,990 18,759 874 27,767 d Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. owns 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which is consolidated by Rio Tinto.
Net debt of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. excludes its share of the net debt of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
Refer to note 39 for further information relating to the consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
g Non-current assets held under finance leases 19 33 52 h Other non-current assets pledged as security 4 15 1,742 37 1,798 17 Inventories a Mining properties include deferred stripping costs of US$1,119 million 2010: US$1,033 million.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs of US$50 million 2010: US$11 million: 2009: US$3 million 2011 2010 is included within Depreciation for the year.
Impairment of deferred stripping costs of US$11 million is charged to the income statement in 2011 2010: nil: 2009: US$59 million.
US$m US$m b At 31 December 2011, the net statement of financial position amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$6,004 million 2010: US$6,037 million : long leasehold US$75 million 2010: US$217 million : and short leasehold US$56 million 2010: US$45 million.
Raw materials and purchased components 1,292 1,162 c Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Groups cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable.
The Groups average borrowing rate used for capitalisation of interest Consumable stores 1,385 1,279 is 4.8 per cent 2010: 5.0 per cent: 2009: 4.2 per cent.
Work in progress 1,814 1,357 d Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis as follows: Finished goods and goods for resale 1,197 1,333 Land and Buildings 5,688 5,131 Land: Not depreciated Buildings: 5 to 50 years Comprising: Plant and equipment Expected to be used within one year 5,307 4,756 Other plant and equipment: 3 to 35 years Power assets: 25 to 100 years Expected to be used after more than one year 381 375 Capital work in progress: Not depreciated 5,688 5,131 e During 2011 and 2010, impairment charges primarily relate to the impairment of Alcan.
Refer to note 6 for further information.
f Transfers and other movements includes reclassifications between categories.
Inventory write downs, net of reversals, amounting to US$184 million 2010: US$115 million: 2009: US$99 million were recognised during the year.
g The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 24. h Excludes assets held under finance leases.
Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$202 million 2010: US$244 million of loans, which are included in note 23.
164 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment 15 Investments in equity accounted units Mining Restated properties Land and Plant and Capital works 2011 2010 a b and leases buildings equipment in progress Total Summary statement of financial position Rio Tinto share US$m US$m Year ended 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Rio Tintos share of assets Net book value Non-current assets 11,598 10,089 At 1 January 2011 14,029 6,299 28,615 7,081 56,024 Current assets 3,048 2,576 Adjustment on currency translation 96 88 354 189 727 14,646 12,665 Capitalisation of additional closure costs note 27 2,835 2,835 Rio Tintos share of liabilities c Interest capitalised note 8 493 493 Current liabilities 2,084 1,394 Additions 178 114 981 10,652 11,925 Non-current liabilities 2,729 4,416 a d Depreciation for the year 672 321 2,510 3,503 4,813 5,810 e a Impairment charges, net of reversals 142 91 956 568 1,757 Rio Tintos share of net assets 9,833 6,855 Disposals 12 66 33 111 a Further details of investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are set out in notes 36 and 37.
Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$202 million 2010: US$244 million of loans, which are included in note 23. riotinto.
com 165 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued Deferred Deferred tax tax b ba ala lances nces for for which which th there ere is is a a right right of of off offset set within within th the e sa same me jurisdiction jurisdiction ar are e pres presente ented d net net o on n the the fac face e of of the the s st tatem atement ent of of finan financ cial ial position position 18 18 Trade and other receiv Trade and other receivables ables as as per perm mitte itted d by by IAS IAS 12.
The The closin closing g deferre deferred d tax tax liab liabilities ilities an and d asse assets, ts, prior prior to to this this offse offset tt ting ing of of balanc balances, es, a ar re e shown shown belo below.
w. No Non n- -c cu urre rrent nt C Cu urre rren nt t No Nonn-curre curren nt t Cu Curre rrent nt 2 2011 011 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2010 2010 Re Rest state ated d US$m US$m US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Tota Total l Tot Tota all 2 2011 011 2010 2010 Trade Trade recei receiv vables ables 1 11 1 3, 3,72 721 1 10 10 3, 3,939 939 US$m US$m US US$m $m a a Prov Provis ision ion for for doubt doubtful ful debts debts 3 35 5 37 37 D fide eferred ferred tax tax liabilities liabilities arising arising fr from: om: Trade Trade recei receiv vables ables net net 1 11 1 3, 3,68 686 6 10 10 3, 3,902 902 Accelera Accelerated ted capit capita all allowa allowances nces 8, 8,42 424 4 7, 7,098 098 Am Amounts ounts d du ue e f fr rom om equit equity y acco accounted unted un unit its s 31 318 8 42 422 2 337 337 217 217 b b Unremitted earnings Unremitted earnings 48 480 0 437 437 O Ot ther her rece receiv ivables ables 1, 1,02 025 5 1, 1,36 368 8 300 300 1, 1,017 017 Unreal Unrealised ised exc exch ha an nge ge ga gains ins 68 681 1 693 693 Pens Pension ion s su urplu rpluses ses note note 47 47 8 88 8 110 110 c c Capita Capitalised lised interest interest 45 457 7 373 373 Prepa Prepay yment ment of of tol tollling ing c ch harges arges to to jointl jointly y cont controlled rolled e en ntit titiie es s 63 634 4 787 787 O Ot ther her tem temp pora orar ry y d diiffere fferences nces 84 844 4 661 661 O Ot ther her prepa prepay ym me ent nts s 28 289 9 58 582 2 282 282 446 446 1 10, 0,886 886 9, 9,262 262 2, 2,36 365 5 6, 6,05 058 8 1, 1,826 826 5, 5,582 582 a a At At 31 31 Dece December mber 2 2011, 011, t tr rade ade an and d ot other her rec receivabl eivables es of of US US$35 $35 mi million llion 20 2010: 10: U US S$37 $37 million million were were impaired impaired.. T Th he e majority majority of of t th hes ese e rec rece eivables ivables wer were e more more tha than n 90 90 days days overdue.
Deferred Deferred tax tax assets assets arising arising from: from: b b Non-c Non-current urrent receiva receivab bles les inclu include fide a a US US$ $700 700 million million prepay prepaymen ment t f for or an an in intangible tangible asset asset, f follow ollowin ing g signing signing of of the the agreeme agreement nt f fo or r t th he e Sima Simandou ndou iron iron ore ore projec project.
t. The The prepa prepayment yment is is show shown n as as a a pur purc chase hase of of int inta an ng gible ible asset assets s in in t th he e c cash ash flow flow st statem atemen ent.
t. Capita Capital l allow allowa ances nces 50 502 2 71 71 c c Rio Rio Tin Tint to o Alumi Alumin nium ium ha has s made made cert certai ain n prepaym prepayme ent nts s t to o join joint tlly y con cont trolled rolled en ent tit itiies es f for or t toll oll processing processing of of ba bauxit uxite e an and d alu alum mina.
Th These ese prepay prepaymen ments ts will will b be e c ch harg arged ed to to Group Group operati operatin ng g costs costs as as processing processing Prov Provis isions ions 2, 2,05 057 7 2 2,178, 178 takes takes pla plac ce.
e. Post Post ret retiirem reme ent nt be benefit nefits s 1, 1,73 738 8 1 1,301, 301 There There is is no no mat mate erial rial ele elem ment ent of of trade trade and and oth other er recei receiv vables ables that that is is inte interest rest b be earing.
Tax Tax lo losses sses 1, 1,45 454 4 1 1,599, 599 Due Due to to their their short short- -ter term m maturi maturities, ties, the the fair fair value value of of tr trade ade and and oth other er rec rece eiv ivables ables a approxi pproxim mates ates their their carry carrying ing value.
Unreal Unrealised ised exc exch ha an nge ge losses losses 24 241 1 529 529 O Ot ther her tem temp pora orar ry y d diiffere fferences nces 55 559 9 225 225 As As of of 31 31 Dec Dece ember mber 2011, 2011, trade trade and and other other rec rece eivables ivables of of US$15 US$159 9 million million 2010: 2010: US$292 US$292 million million were were past past due due but but n not ot iim mpaired.
Th The e ageing ageing of of these these 6, 6,55 551 1 5 5,903, 903 receivables receivables is is as as f fo ollows: llows: 2 2011 011 2010 2010 Charged credited Charged credited to to the the income income s statement tatement US$m US$m US US$m $m Decelerated acce Decelerated accelerated lerated cap capiital tal allo allowances wances 17 172 2 35 35 less less than than 3 30 0 da day ys s o ov verdue erdue 10 104 4 162 162 Prov Provis isions ions 1 16 6 244 244 between between 30 30 a an nd d 60 60 day days s ove over rdue due 2 29 9 67 67 Post Post ret retiirem reme ent nt be benefit nefits s 11 117 7 259 259 between between 60 60 a an nd d 90 90 day days s ove over rdue due 2 22 2 17 17 Tax Tax lo losses sses 6 66 6 64 64 more more than than 90 90 da day ys s overdue overdue 4 4 46 46 Tax Tax o on n unremitted unremitted earnings earnings 3 39 9 12 12 15 159 9 292 292 Unreal Unrealised ised exc exch ha an nge ge losses losses 29 299 9 222 222 These These relat relate e to to a a number number of of cust custo om mers ers f fo or r who whom m there there is is no no r re ecent cent history history of of default default or or oth other er indicators indicators of of im impairment.
O Ot ther her tem temp pora orar ry y d diiffere fferences nces 2 25 5 74 74 30 308 8 270 270 With With resp respect ect to to tr trade ade and and oth other er rec rece eivables ivables that that are are neither neither impa impaired ired nor nor past past due, due, ther there e are are no no indicatio indication ns s as as of of the the re repor portin ting g date date that that the the deb debtors tors will will not not mee meet t th their eir pa pay ym ment ent obligations obligations.. a a The The amo amoun unts ts cr credi edited ted d diir re ectl ctly y to to t th he e Sta Statem teme ent nt o of f co compr mprehe ehen ns siive five iin nco come me r re ella ate te to to tax tax r re elliief ef o on n s sh har are e o op ptio tion ns s, pr pro ov vis isio ions ns fo for r t ta ax x on on exc exch han ange ge diff differenc erence es s on on in int tr ragrou agroup p loan loans s qu qualif alifyi yin ng g f for or r report eportin ing g as as part part of of the the n ne et t iin nvest vestment ment in in subsidiaries subsidiaries, on on cash cash flow flow hedg hedges es and and on on ac actu tuarial arial gain gains s an and d lo losses sses on on pen pension sion sc sch he emes mes an and d pos post t re retiremen tirement t health healthcare care plans.
b b Def Defe erred rred tax tax relat relatiin ng g t to o n ne ew wlly y c co on nsolidat solidated ed operat operation ions s is is pri prin nc ciipally pally du due e t to o def defe erred rred t ta ax x liabilit liabilitiies es arisin arising g on on t th he e di dif ff fe er re en nc ce e be betw twe een en th the e fair fair valu value e a and nd t th he e tax tax base base of of t th he e assets assets of of Riversdale Riversdale iin n 2 2011 011 19 19 Deferred taxation Deferred taxation and and Oyu Oyu Tolg Tolgoi oi in in 2 2010.
Re Refer fer to to not note e 39 39.. c c Ot Oth her er move movemen ments ts iin ncl clude ude deferred deferred tax tax re relatin lating g to to t ta ax x paya payab ble le recog recogn niis sed ed by by su subs bsidiary idiary holdin holding g companie companies s on on the the prof profits its of of th the e eq equity uity ac accoun count ted ed u un nits its to to whic which h iit t rela relat tes.
O Ot ther her moveme movements nts Re Rest state ated d in in 2010 2010 also also inc incllu uded ded amou amoun nt ts s re relat latiin ng g t to o th the e divest divestment ment o of f t th he e Alc Alca an n Pac Pack kagin aging g bu businesses sinesses an and d Alc Alca an n E En ngin gineered eered Produ Produc ct ts s, exc excllu udi ding ng Cable Cable Division, Division, classifie classified d as as a asset ssets s h he eld ld f for or sale sale at at y year ear en end.
d. 2 2011 011 2010 2010 d d The The def deferred erred t ta ax x liab liability ility of of U US S$6,2 $6,210 10 million million 20 2010: 10: U US S$5, $5,2 222 22 million million in includes cludes US US$6,03 $6,036 6 million million 201 2010: 0: U US S$5, $5,056 056 million million d du ue e iin n more more t th han an one one year.
The The fide deferred ferred tax tax a asset sset of of U US S$1, $1,875 875 million million US$m US$m US US$m $m 2010: 2010: US$ US$1 1,86, 863 3 mill million ion incl includes udes US US$1,7 $1,767 67 mil milllion ion 2010 2010: : US US$853 $853 million million receiv receivable able iin n more more t th han an one one y year.
At At 1 1 Jan Janu ua ar ry y 3, 3,35 359 9 2, 2,073 073 e e US$1,95 US$1,959 9 million million 2010 2010:: US$1 US$1,217, 217 million million of of po poten tent tial ial fide deferred ferred tax tax assets assets ha have five not not been been recog recogn nised ised as as assets assets in in th these ese a acco ccoun unts.
T Th here ere is is a a time time limit, limit, t th he e short shortes est t of of wh whic ich h is is th three ree y years, ears, f for or th the e recovery recovery of of U US S$45 $45 million million of of these these pote potenti ntia al l as assets sets 201 2010: 0: U US S$22 $22 million.
U US S$59 $595 5 million million 201 2010: 0: US US$449 $449 million million of of t th he e pote potenti ntial al asset assets s relates relates t to o realised realised or or u un nr realis ealised ed c ca apit pita all losses, losses, rec reco overy very A Ad djju us st tmen ment t on on curr curren ency cy tra tran ns slla at tiio on n 1 13 3 340 340 of of w wh hich ich dep depends ends o on n th the e e existe xistence nce of of capit capital al g ga ains ins in in fu future ture years.
U US S$ $797 797 million million 2010 2010: : US US$4 $467 67 million million o of f the the pote potent ntial ial asse asset ts s relat relate es s t to o t tr radin ading g losses losses in in Fran France, ce, w wh hic ich h w we ere re ac acqu quired ired as as par part t Cha Char rged to ged to the the inc income statemen ome statement t 30 308 8 270 270 of of the the Alc Alca an n acq acqu uisition.
a a f f Def Defe erred rred tax tax is is n no ot t rec reco ogn gnised ised on on t th he e un unremitt remitted ed earn earniin ng gs s of of su subsidi bsidia aries ries an and d join joint tlly y c co on nt trolled rolled ent entiit tiies es w wh here ere t th he e Grou Group p iis s able able t to o cont control rol the the timing timing of of t th he e remi remit tt ta ance nce and and iit t is is probable probable t th ha at t there there Credited Credited to to st statement atement of of comprehe comprehens nsive ive income income 51 511 1 226 226 will will be be no no remi remitta ttance nce in in the the foreseeable foreseeable f fu uture ture.. IIf f these these earning earnings s were were re remitte mitted, d, tax tax o of f US US$187 $187 m miillion llion 2010: 2010: US$ US$146 146 million million would would be be payable.
b b Newly Newly conso consollid idated ated operatio operations ns n note ote 39 39 1, 1,18 187 7 881 881 g g There There is is a a limi limited ted time time period, period, t th he e s sh hortest ortest o of f w wh hich ich is is fi five five ye years, ars, for for th the e recovery recovery of of US$ US$896 896 m miillion llion 2010: 2010: US$ US$675 675 milli million on of of t ta ax x losses losses an and d ot oth he er r t ta ax x asset assets s wh whic ich h have have been been rec reco ogn gnised ised as as def defe erred rred c c O Ot ther her m mo ovem veme ents nts 5 5 21 21 tax tax assets assets in in th the e fina financi ncial al stat statemen ements.
At At 31 31 Decem Decembe ber r 4, 4,33 335 5 3, 3,359 359 20 20 Assets Assets and and liabilities liabilities h held eld for for sale sale Compris Comprisiing ng: : At At 31 31 D fide ec cember ember 2 2011 011 assets assets and and lia liab bilities ilities he held ld for for sa sale le comprise comprise Zulul Zulula and nd Anthracite Anthracite C Co olliery, lliery, whic which h was was a ac cquired quired with with River Riversd sdale ale Mining Mining Lim Limiited.
d d deferred deferred ta tax x lliiabil abilitie ities s 6, 6,21 210 0 5, 5,222 222 At At 31 31 D fide ec cember ember 2 2010 010 assets assets and and lia liab bilities ilities he held ld for for sa sale le comprise comprise Alcan Alcans s Engineered Engineered Products Products group group AEP AEP, , excluding excluding the the C Ca able ble Division, Division, foll following owing d d deferred deferred ta tax x asse assets ts 1, 1,87 875 5 1 1,863, 863 the the rec rece eipt ipt on on 5 5 A Au ugust gust 2010 2010 of of a a bi binding nding of offer fer fro from m f funds unds affi affili liated ated wit with h Apollo Apollo Gl Global obal M Ma anagement, nagement, LLC LLC A Apollo pollo and and the the F Fo onds nds Stratgiqu Stratgique e dInve dInvestissement stissement FSI FSI t to o buy buy a a 61 61 per per c ce ent nt sta stak ke e in in AEP, AEP, excl excluding uding th the e Cabl Cable e Division.
The The dive divest stmen ment t w wa as s co compl mple ete ted d on on 4 4 Janua January ry 2011.
166 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 167 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the statement of financial position 18 Trade and other receivables as permitted by IAS 12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
Non-current Current Non-current Current 2011 2011 2010 2010 Restated US$m US$m US$m US$m Total Total 2011 2010 Trade receivables 11 3,721 10 3,939 US$m US$m a Provision for doubtful debts 35 37 Deferred tax liabilities arising from: Trade receivables net 11 3,686 10 3,902 Accelerated capital allowances 8,424 7,098 Amounts due from equity accounted units 318 422 337 217 b Unremitted earnings 480 437 Other receivables 1,025 1,368 300 1,017 Unrealised exchange gains 681 693 Pension surpluses note 47 88 110 c Capitalised interest 457 373 Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities 634 787 Other temporary differences 844 661 Other prepayments 289 582 282 446 10,886 9,262 2,365 6,058 1,826 5,582 a At 31 December 2011, trade and other receivables of US$35 million 2010: US$37 million were impaired.
The majority of these receivables were more than 90 days overdue.
Deferred tax assets arising from: b Non-current receivables include a US$700 million prepayment for an intangible asset, following signing of the agreement for the Simandou iron ore project.
The prepayment is shown as a purchase of intangible assets in the cash flow statement.
Capital allowances 502 71 c Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to jointly controlled entities for toll processing of bauxite and alumina.
These prepayments will be charged to Group operating costs as processing Provisions 2,057 2,178 takes place.
Post retirement benefits 1,738 1,301 There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest bearing.
Tax losses 1,454 1,599 Due to their short-term maturities, the fair value of trade and other receivables approximates their carrying value.
Unrealised exchange losses 241 529 Other temporary differences 559 225 As of 31 December 2011, trade and other receivables of US$159 million 2010: US$292 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing of these 6,551 5,903 receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 Charged credited to the income statement US$m US$m Decelerated accelerated capital allowances 172 35 less than 30 days overdue 104 162 Provisions 16 244 between 30 and 60 days overdue 29 67 Post retirement benefits 117 259 between 60 and 90 days overdue 22 17 Tax losses 66 64 more than 90 days overdue 4 46 Tax on unremitted earnings 39 12 159 292 Unrealised exchange losses 299 222 These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default or other indicators of impairment.
Other temporary differences 25 74 308 270 With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
a The amounts credited directly to the Statement of comprehensive income relate to tax relief on share options, provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes and post retirement healthcare plans.
b Deferred tax relating to newly consolidated operations is principally due to deferred tax liabilities arising on the difference between the fair value and the tax base of the assets of Riversdale in 2011 19 Deferred taxation and Oyu Tolgoi in 2010.
Refer to note 39. c Other movements include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates.
Other movements Restated in 2010 also included amounts relating to the divestment of the Alcan Packaging businesses and Alcan Engineered Products, excluding Cable Division, classified as assets held for sale at year end.
2011 2010 d The deferred tax liability of US$6,210 million 2010: US$5,222 million includes US$6,036 million 2010: US$5,056 million due in more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of US$1,875 million US$m US$m 2010: US$1,863 million includes US$1,767 million 2010: US$853 million receivable in more than one year.
At 1 January 3,359 2,073 e US$1,959 million 2010: US$1,217 million of potential deferred tax assets have not been recognised as assets in these accounts.
There is a time limit, the shortest of which is three years, for the recovery of US$45 million of these potential assets 2010: US$22 million.
US$595 million 2010: US$449 million of the potential assets relates to realised or unrealised capital losses, recovery Adjustment on currency translation 13 340 of which depends on the existence of capital gains in future years.
US$797 million 2010: US$467 million of the potential assets relates to trading losses in France, which were acquired as part Charged to the income statement 308 270 of the Alcan acquisition.
a f Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there Credited to statement of comprehensive income 511 226 will be no remittance in the foreseeable future.
If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$187 million 2010: US$146 million would be payable.
b Newly consolidated operations note 39 1,187 881 g There is a limited time period, the shortest of which is five years, for the recovery of US$896 million 2010: US$675 million of tax losses and other tax assets which have been recognised as deferred c Other movements 5 21 tax assets in the financial statements.
At 31 December 4,335 3,359 20 Assets and liabilities held for sale Comprising: At 31 December 2011 assets and liabilities held for sale comprise Zululand Anthracite Colliery, which was acquired with Riversdale Mining Limited.
d deferred tax liabilities 6,210 5,222 At 31 December 2010 assets and liabilities held for sale comprise Alcans Engineered Products group AEP, excluding the Cable Division, following d deferred tax assets 1,875 1,863 the receipt on 5 August 2010 of a binding offer from funds affiliated with Apollo Global Management, LLC Apollo and the Fonds Stratgique dInvestissement FSI to buy a 61 per cent stake in AEP, excluding the Cable Division.
The divestment was completed on 4 January 2011. riotinto.
com 167 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Other financial liabilities 21 Other financial assets Restated Restated Restated Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges 92 118 210 262 159 421 Loans to EAUs 468 121 589 227 110 337 Derivatives related to net debt 1 1 2 34 34 Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges 11 75 86 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as hedges 22 65 87 63 106 169 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated as hedges 5 40 45 19 124 143 Other financial liabilities 57 57 57 57 Derivatives related to net debt 342 5 347 137 6 143 Total other financial liabilities 172 184 356 416 265 681 Equity shares and quoted funds 549 153 702 585 365 950 Other investments, including loans 547 191 738 629 26 655 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 20,357 1,447 21,804 13,693 2,416 16,109 1,922 585 2,507 1,597 631 2,228 Detailed information relating to other financial liabilities is given in note 32.
Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 32. a As at 31 December 2011, US$6.1 billion notional of the fixed rate borrowings were fully swapped to floating rates and US$0.3 billion notional of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited 9.0% due 2019 was swapped for the first two years to floating rates.
Fair value hedge accounting has been applied to the entire amounts borrowed except for US$500 million of the Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 4.875% due 2012, US$87 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.875% due 2013, US$250 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 8.95% due 2014, US$750 million of the Rio 22 Cash and cash equivalents Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% due 2018, US$75 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% 2028 and the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited 9.0% due 2019.
The fair value of interest rate swap assets and liabilities at 31 December 2011 was US$347 million and US$2 million, respectively.
These are included in other financial assets and other financial liabilities in the 2011 2010 statement of financial position.
Details of the major interest rate swaps are shown in note 32 B c. Note US$m US$m b As at 31 December 2010, US$7.6 billion notional of the fixed rate borrowings were fully swapped to floating rates and US$0.3 billion notional of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited 9.0% due 2019 Cash at bank and in hand 2,167 1,785 was swapped for the first two years to floating rates.
Fair value hedge accounting has been applied to all borrowings except for Alcan Inc. Debentures 6.45 per cent due 2011 and Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 4.875 per cent due 2012.
The fair value of interest rate swap assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010 was US$143 million and US$34 million, respectively.
These are included in other Other short term deposits 7,503 8,163 financial assets and other financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Details of the major interest rate swaps are shown in note 32 B c. Balance per Group statement of financial position 9,670 9,948 c Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion 2010: US$10 billion European Medium Term Note EMTN programme for the issuance of debt, of which nil was outstanding at 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
d The Groups borrowings of US$21.4 billion 2010: US$15.4 billion include some US$7.0 billion 2010: US$6.0 billion which relates to borrowings of subsidiaries that are without recourse to the Group, Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 23 16 7 some of which are subject to various financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers were in compliance as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
Cash and cash equivalents included in Assets held for sale 18 e US$3.4 billion 2010: US$1.0 billion of loans from equity accounted units consist of unsecured loans which incur interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 6.5% from February 2011 9.9% in prior periods, are denominated in US dollars and are repayable out of future profits.
Balance per Group cash flow statement 9,654 9,959 Cash and cash equivalents include US$305 million 2010: US$398 million for which there are restrictions on remittances.
24 Capitalised finance leases 2011 2010 23 Borrowings and other financial liabilities Note US$m US$m Restated Present value of minimum lease payments Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Total minimum lease payments 70 89 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Effect of discounting 1 7 Borrowings at 31 December Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 14 69 82 Finance leases 24 34 35 69 70 12 82 a b Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% 2013 100 100 98 98 a b Payments under capitalised finance leases Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.875% 2013 610 610 621 621 a b Due within one year 35 12 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 8.95% 2014 1,957 1,957 1,922 1,922 Between 1 and 3 years 15 21 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 1.875% 2015 500 500 500 500 Between 3 and 5 years 10 12 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 2.5% 2016 695 695 More than 5 years 9 37 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 2.25% 2016 496 496 a b 14 69 82 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% 2018 2,066 2,066 1,953 1,953 a b Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 9.0% 2019 1,451 1,451 1,446 1,446 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.5% 2020 993 993 992 992 25 Consolidated net debt Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 4.125% 2021 996 996 Restated 2011 2010 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.75% 2021 1,143 1,143 US$m US$m a b Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% 2028 1,048 1,048 906 906 Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.2% 2040 1,147 1,147 500 500 b Opening balance 4,071 18,861 Alcan Inc. Debentures 6.45% due 2011 401 401 a b Adjustment on currency translation 39 1,269 Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 4.875% due 2012 498 498 496 496 a a b Exchange losses gains charged credited to the income statement 85 1,130 Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 4.50% due 2013 489 489 486 486 a b Cash movements excluding exchange movements 4,498 15,244 Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 6.125% due 2033 737 737 738 738 Derivatives related to net debt note 32 345 109 Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 5.75% due 2035 282 282 282 282 EAU funded balances excluded from net debt 2,982 1,300 Colowyo Coal Company L. P. Bonds 9.56% 2011 12 12 Adjusted total borrowings 18,121 14,019 Colowyo Coal Company L. P. Bonds 10.19% 2016 35 35 e Cash and cash equivalents note 22 9,670 9,948 Loans from equity accounted units 3,171 301 3,472 14 1,351 1,365 Other secured loans 388 64 452 347 41 388 Consolidated net debt 8,451 4,071 Other unsecured loans 379 349 728 370 327 697 Bank overdrafts 16 16 7 7 Total borrowings including overdrafts 20,185 1,263 21,448 13,277 2,151 15,428 168 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Other financial liabilities 21 Other financial assets Restated Restated Restated Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges 92 118 210 262 159 421 Loans to EAUs 468 121 589 227 110 337 Derivatives related to net debt 1 1 2 34 34 Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges 11 75 86 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as hedges 22 65 87 63 106 169 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated as hedges 5 40 45 19 124 143 Other financial liabilities 57 57 57 57 Derivatives related to net debt 342 5 347 137 6 143 Total other financial liabilities 172 184 356 416 265 681 Equity shares and quoted funds 549 153 702 585 365 950 Other investments, including loans 547 191 738 629 26 655 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 20,357 1,447 21,804 13,693 2,416 16,109 1,922 585 2,507 1,597 631 2,228 Detailed information relating to other financial liabilities is given in note 32.
com 169 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued a The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments in respect 25 Consolidated net debt continued of those arrangements, are given in note 47.
2011 2010 2009 b The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$313 million 2010: US$267 million, based on the relevant entitlements in certain Group operations US$m US$m US$m and includes US$71 million 2010: US$132 million of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
On 1 July 2010, the Performance Share Plan formally the Mining Companies Comparative Plan was redesignated from cash settled to equity settled due to a change in settlement terms.
This resulted in a provision balance of US$57 million being reclassified to reserves, refer to note 30.
Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances excluded from Further details of the plans treatment are provided in note 46.
Underlying earnings c The Groups policy on close down and restoration costs is described in note 1 k. Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the relevant operation.
Remaining lives of mines and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an average, weighted by closure provision, Exchange losses gains on US dollar net debt 175 1,119 2,211 of around 19 years 2010: 21 years.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using Exchange gains losses on intragroup balances 36 589 1,912 current restoration standards and techniques.
Provisions of US$11,654 million 2010: US$8,607 million for close down and restoration costs and environmental clean up obligations include estimates of the effect of future inflation and have been adjusted to reflect risk.
These estimates have been discounted to their present value at an average nominal rate of approximately four per cent per Exchange gains on loans from equity accounted units 1 20 36 annum, based on an estimate of the long term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
Excluding the effects of future inflation, and before discounting, this provision is equivalent to some US$21.1 billion 2010: US$12.3 billion.
Exchange losses gains on settlement of dividend 16 21 30 d Some US$327 million 2010: US$687 million of environmental clean up expenditure is expected to take place within the next five years.
The remainder includes amounts for the operation and Charged credited to income statement 154 529 365 maintenance of remediation facilities in later years.
a Exchange gains taken to the income statement include amounts taken to Underlying earnings.
28 Share capital Rio Tinto plc Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 32 B c on Financial Instruments.
2011 2010 2009 Number Number Number 2011 2010 2009 The Group updated its definition of net debt in 2011, such that it is stated net of the impact of certain funding arrangements relating to Equity Accounted million million million US$m US$m US$m Units EAUs and partially owned subsidiaries EAU funded balances.
This modification is required in order to avoid showing liabilities twice in the net debt Issued and fully paid up share capital disclosure, where funding has been provided to an EAU by the Group and subsequently on lent by the EAU to a consolidated Group subsidiary.
Total borrowings At 1 January 1,529.004 1,529.004 1,004.103 246 246 160 have been similarly adjusted to present adjusted total borrowings.
Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly.
a c Ordinary shares issued 524.901 86 b Syndicated bank loans related to revolving credit facilities arranged for the acquisition of Alcan Inc. in 2007 were all fully repaid and cancelled at Own shares purchased and cancelled 75.604 12 31 December 2010.
At 31 December 1,453.400 1,529.004 1,529.004 234 246 246 26 Trade and other payables Shares held by public Restated At 1 January 1,526.305 1,523.969 998.193 Non-current Current Non-current Current a c Ordinary shares issued 524.901 2011 2011 2010 2010 b US$m US$m US$m US$m Shares reissued from treasury 0.875 2.336 0.875 Shares purchased and cancelled 75.604 Trade payables 3,288 2,076 Shares purchased and held in treasury 13.234 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 346 243 505 222 b a Shares purchased and awaiting cancellation 1.800 Other payables 107 1,852 138 851 At 31 December 1,436.542 1,526.305 1,523.969 Employee entitlements 766 681 Royalties and mining taxes 653 594 b Accruals and deferred income 126 2,572 109 2,097 Shares repurchased and held in treasury 15.058 2.699 5.035 b Government grants deferred 140 7 127 49 Shares repurchased and awaiting cancellation 1.800 Shares held by public 1,436.542 1,526.305 1,523.969 719 9,381 879 6,570 a Other payables include deferred consideration of US$94 million 2010: US$108 million relating to certain assets acquired.
All other accounts payable and accruals are non interest bearing.
Total share capital 1,453.400 1,529.004 1,529.004 Due to their short-term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates their carrying value.
Other share classes d Special Voting Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only 27 Provisions not including taxation d DLC Dividend Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only Pensions Close d Restated and post Other down and Equalisation Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only Total Total retirement employee restoration a b c d Other 2011 2010 healthcare entitlements environmental a No new ordinary shares were issued in 2011.
875,057 ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year resulting from the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m payment plans, with exercise prices between 10.43 and 47.12 per share 2010: no new ordinary shares issued, and 2,336,005 shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between 7.98 and At 1 January 4,472 866 8,607 539 14,484 13,694 40.07 per share: 2009: 440,018 shares issued, and 874,925 shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between 7.98 and 29.38 per share.
524,460,478 new ordinary shares were issued in July 2009 as a result of the Rio Tinto plc rights issue.
Adjustment on currency translation 77 6 147 6 236 461 b The authority for the Company to buy back its ordinary shares was renewed at the 2011 annual general meeting.
No shares were bought back and held in treasury from 2008 to 2010.
From February Amounts capitalised 2,022 2,022 686 to April 2011, 14,371,550 shares were bought back and held in treasury of which 1,137,550 were cancelled.
From April to December 2011 76.266,945 shares were bought back of which 74,466,945 were cancelled in 2011 and 1,800,000 were cancelled in January 2012.
Change in discount rate 909 909 233 c The aggregate consideration received for treasury shares reissued was US$48 million 2010: US$92 million: 2009: US$3 million.
No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of options under Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 21 22 82 125 Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans in 2011 and 2010.
The aggregate consideration for new shares issued resulting from the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans was US$32 million in 2009.
Charged credited to profit: The aggregate gross consideration received for new shares issued arising from the right issue during 2009 was US$12.0 billion.
The difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares new provisions 209 30 46 285 229 issued was credited to merger reserve and expenses associated with the rights issue were charged against the share premium account.
increases to existing provisions 320 97 163 75 655 610 d The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC merger.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the unused amounts reversed 38 34 10 82 76 DLC structure.
exchange gains losses on provisions 7 7 97 During 2011, US$86 million of shares 2010: US$39 million of shares: 2009: US$17 million of shares were purchased by the Employee Share Ownership amortisation of discount 1 364 365 299 Trust on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
Utilised in year 678 245 202 180 1,305 1,617 Actuarial losses recognised in equity 1,924 1 1,925 860 Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 46 on share based payments.
Transfers from to assets held for sale 128 128 829 Transfers and other movements 15 8 17 85 125 163 At 31 December 5,955 871 11,654 677 19,157 14,484 Statement of financial position analysis: Current 131 550 392 414 1,487 1,117 Non-current 5,824 321 11,262 263 17,670 13,367 Total 5,955 871 11,654 677 19,157 14,484 170 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued a The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments in respect 25 Consolidated net debt continued of those arrangements, are given in note 47.
On 1 July 2010, the Performance Share Plan formerly the Mining Companies Comparative Plan was redesignated from cash settled to equity settled due to a change in settlement terms.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques.
Provisions of US$11,654 million 2010: US$8,607 million for close down and restoration costs and environmental clean up obligations include estimates Exchange gains losses on intragroup balances 36 589 1,912 of the effect of future inflation and have been adjusted to reflect risk.
28 Share capital Rio Tinto plc Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 32 B c 2011 2010 2009 on Financial Instruments.
Number Number Number 2011 2010 2009 The Group updated its definition of net debt in 2011, such that it is stated net of the impact of certain funding arrangements relating to Equity Accounted million million million US$m US$m US$m Units EAUs and partially owned subsidiaries EAU funded balances.
At 31 December 1,453.400 1,529.004 1,529.004 234 246 246 26 Trade and other payables Shares held by public Restated At 1 January 1,526.305 1,523.969 998.193 Non-current Current Non-current Current a c Ordinary shares issued 524.901 2011 2011 2010 2010 b US$m US$m US$m US$m Shares reissued from treasury 0.875 2.336 0.875 Shares purchased and cancelled 75.604 Trade payables 3,288 2,076 Shares purchased and held in treasury 13.234 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 346 243 505 222 a b Shares purchased and awaiting cancellation 1.800 Other payables 107 1,852 138 851 At 31 December 1,436.542 1,526.305 1,523.969 Employee entitlements 766 681 Royalties and mining taxes 653 594 b Shares repurchased and held in treasury 15.058 2.699 5.035 Accruals and deferred income 126 2,572 109 2,097 b Shares repurchased and awaiting cancellation 1.800 Government grants deferred 140 7 127 49 Shares held by public 1,436.542 1,526.305 1,523.969 719 9,381 879 6,570 a Other payables include deferred consideration of US$94 million 2010: US$108 million relating to certain assets acquired.
The aggregate consideration for new shares issued resulting from the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share Charged credited to profit: based payment plans was US$32 million in 2009.
The aggregate gross consideration received for new shares issued arising from the right issue during 2009 was US$12.0 billion.
indd 171 06 03 2012 18:04 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 29 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 30 Other reserves and retained earnings 2011 2010 2009 Restated Number Number Number 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 million million million US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Issued and fully paid up share capital Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 435.76 435.76 285.75 5,601 4,924 961 At 1 January 12 12 12 Adjustment on currency translation 19 677 710 Own shares purchased and cancelled 12 a Ordinary shares issued 150.01 3,253 At 31 December 24 12 12 At 31 December 435.76 435.76 435.76 5,582 5,601 4,924 b b Share capital held by Rio Tinto plc 171.07 Hedging reserves b Special Voting Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only At 1 January 155 128 14 b DLC Dividend Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 84 72 206 b Total share capital 435.76 435.76 606.83 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 81 47 16 a No new ordinary shares were issued during 2011 and 2010.
150,015,297 ordinary shares were issued during 2009 as a result of the Rio Tinto Limited rights issue.
The aggregate gross consideration Net movement on equity accounted units cash flow hedges 2 1 received for new shares issued during 2009 was US$3.2 billion.
Cash flow hedge gains reclassified on disposal 4 b The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC merger.
Directors have the ability to Tax on the above 56 1 52 issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
At 31 December 44 155 128 No shares were bought back during 2011.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, Rio Tinto Limited purchased and cancelled 171,072,520 ordinary shares off-market, which were held by Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc.
The selective buyback and cancellation were approved by shareholders at the 2010 Rio Tinto Limited annual c general meeting.
As a result of these transactions, no ordinary shares in Rio Tinto Limited were held by the above subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: nil.
Available for sale revaluation reserves No shares were bought back during 2009.
At 1 January 427 247 107 Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2011 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the Losses gains on available for sale securities 238 213 357 on-market purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Groups behalf.
Gains on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 19 10 3 Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 46 on share based payments.
Tax on the above 23 23 At 31 December 193 427 247 d Other reserves At 1 January 11,785 11,776 169 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 71 84 35 Employee share options: value of services 71 48 30 d Merger reserve arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue 11,936 Deferred tax on share options 20 21 14 Cash settled share options reclassified as equity settled 24 At 31 December 11,765 11,785 11,776 e Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 3,574 2,103 2,072 Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 891 1,230 3,732 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 54 208 456 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 46 6 13 Tax on the above 10 27 At 31 December 2,793 3,574 2,103 Total other reserves per statement of financial position 14,731 15,643 14,010 172 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 29 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 30 Other reserves and retained earnings 2011 2010 2009 Restated Number Number Number 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 million million million US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Issued and fully paid up share capital Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 435.76 435.76 285.75 5,601 4,924 961 At 1 January 12 12 12 Adjustment on currency translation 19 677 710 Own shares purchased and cancelled 12 a Ordinary shares issued 150.01 3,253 At 31 December 24 12 12 At 31 December 435.76 435.76 435.76 5,582 5,601 4,924 b b Share capital held by Rio Tinto plc 171.07 Hedging reserves b Special Voting Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only At 1 January 155 128 14 b DLC Dividend Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 84 72 206 b Total share capital 435.76 435.76 606.83 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 81 47 16 a No new ordinary shares were issued during 2011 and 2010.
Tax on the above 23 23 At 31 December 193 427 247 d Other reserves At 1 January 11,785 11,776 169 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 71 84 35 Employee share options: value of services 71 48 30 d Merger reserve arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue 11,936 Deferred tax on share options 20 21 14 Cash settled share options reclassified as equity settled 24 At 31 December 11,765 11,785 11,776 e Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 3,574 2,103 2,072 Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 891 1,230 3,732 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 54 208 456 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 46 6 13 Tax on the above 10 27 At 31 December 2,793 3,574 2,103 Total other reserves per statement of financial position 14,731 15,643 14,010 riotinto.
com 173 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued i Foreign exchange risk 30 Other reserves and retained earnings continued Rio Tintos shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups 2011 2010 2009 sales, expenditure and the countries in which it operates.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are US$m US$m US$m f denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are located and also Retained earnings by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
The Australian and Canadian dollars are the most important At 1 January 32,499 20,477 17,134 currencies apart from the US dollar influencing costs.
In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant impact on Rio Tintos Parent and subsidiaries profit for the year 5,720 14,229 4,497 financial results.
A strengthening of the US dollar against the currencies in which the Groups costs are partly determined has a positive effect on Equity accounted units retained profit for the year 106 9 375 Rio Tintos Underlying earnings.
g Actuarial losses 1,911 769 973 Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both internally Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 513 236 269 and externally.
It is also the most appropriate currency for financing the Groups operations.
Borrowings and cash are predominantly denominated in Total comprehensive income for the year 4,428 13,705 4,168 US dollars, either directly or through the use of derivatives.
Share buyback scheme 6,210 Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities, including intragroup balances, are not held in the functional currency of the relevant Dividends paid 2,236 1,754 876 subsidiary.
This results in an accounting exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and liabilities are translated into the functional Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 793 h currency of the subsidiary that accounts for those assets and liabilities.
These exchange gains and losses are recorded in the Groups income Own shares purchased treasury shares reissued for share options and other items 10 31 14 i statement except to the extent that they can be taken to equity under the Groups accounting policy which is explained in note 1 d. Exchange gains Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken to the income statement 86 69 65 and losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances are excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other exchange gains and losses are included in Cash settled share options reclassified as equity settled 33 Underlying earnings.
At 31 December 27,784 32,499 20,477 See section B c of note 32 Financial instruments for the details of currency and interest rate contracts relating to borrowings.
a The capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 170 of the Companies Act 1985, when shares of a company are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the companys profits.
The amount at 31 December 2011 reflects the amount by which the Companys issued share capital is diminished in accordance with section 733 of the Companies Act 2006.
After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Groups net debt is either denominated in US dollars or in the functional currency b The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity, as described in note 1 p. iii.
of the entity holding the debt.
The table below summarises the net debt by currency.
c The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available for sale securities, as described in note 1 p. i. d Other reserves record the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited, less, where applicable, the cost Restated of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised.
The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc is recorded 2011 2010 in retained earnings.
Net debt funds by currency US$m US$m Other reserves includes US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed in July 2009.
No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto plc financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
United States dollar 8,701 3,969 e Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described in note 1 d. Australian dollar 124 201 The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
South African rand 104 62 f Retained profit and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Groups share of proportionally consolidated units.
UK sterling 322 24 g This includes actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units of US$5 million 2010: US$4 million: 2009: US$126 million.
h For 2011 this is stated net of a US$95 million reclassification between share premium and retained earnings, relating to the weighted average cost of shares held, that was applied to the rate Euro 133 9 of shares in Rio Tinto plc to Rio Tinto Limited, and for the satisfaction of share options, in prior periods.
Canadian dollar 81 123 i The movement during 2009 included IFRS 2 charges arising from a Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE transaction.
The discount to fair value arising from this transaction was treated as a share based payment in accordance with IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share based Payments and AC 503 Accounting for BEE Transactions.
Other 162 145 Total 8,451 4,071 31 Financial risk management Currency hedging The Groups policies with regard to financial risk management are clearly defined and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental part of the Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long-term benefits Groups long-term strategy covering areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and to shareholders.
The Group reviews its exposure on a regular basis and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial stability.
protection measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances and are subject to strict limits laid down by the Rio Tinto board, Generally, the Group only sells commodities it has produced but also enters into third party direct transactions and physical swaps on Alumina typically hedging of capital expenditures and other significant financial items such as acquisitions, disposals, tax and dividends.
The Group held a legacy to balance the regional positions and to balance the loading on production facilities.
In the long term, natural hedges operate in a number of ways of currency forward contracts used to hedge operating cash flow exposures acquired with the North companies which expired in 2010.
Refer to section B to help protect and stabilise earnings and cash flow.
a to c of note 32 Financial instruments for the currency forward and option contracts used to manage the currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2011.
The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and operates in a number of markets, which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
The relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries in which the Group operates provides further natural protection in the long term.
Production of minerals is an important contributor to the Gross Domestic Products of Australia and Canada, countries in which the Group has a large presence.
As a consequence, the Australian and Canadian currencies have historically tended to strengthen when commodity prices are high.
In addition, US dollar floating rates have historically also tended to be high when commodity prices are high, and vice versa, and hence the Groups interest rate policy is to generally borrow and invest, after the impact of hedging, at floating interest rates.
However, in some circumstances, the Group reserves the right to maintain a higher proportion of fixed rate funding.
These natural hedges significantly reduce the necessity for using derivatives or other forms of synthetic hedging.
Such hedging is therefore undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as described below.
Treasury operates as a service to the business of the Rio Tinto Group and not as a profit centre.
Strict limits on the size and type of transaction permitted are laid down by the Rio Tinto board and are subject to rigorous internal controls.
Senior management is advised of corporate cash and debt positions, as well as commodity and interest rate derivatives through a monthly reporting framework.
Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has material exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments in joint ventures and associates.
Derivatives are used to separate funding and cash management decisions from currency exposure and interest rate management.
The Group held financial assets of US$20.1 billion at 31 December 2011 mainly consisting of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and loans to equity accounted units.
The credit risk associated with these balances is discussed below.
Derivative contracts are carried at fair value based on published quotations for the period for which a liquid active market exists.
Beyond this period, Rio Tintos own valuations are used.
174 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued i Foreign exchange risk 30 Other reserves and retained earnings continued Rio Tintos shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups 2011 2010 2009 sales, expenditure and the countries in which it operates.
com 175 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued iii Commodity price risk 31 Financial risk management continued The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the Foreign exchange sensitivity: Risks associated with exposure to financial instruments Rio Tinto board and to rigid internal controls.
Rio Tintos exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad commodity base and The sensitivities below give the estimated effect of a ten per cent weakening in the full year closing exchange rate of significant currencies against the Group does not generally believe commodity price hedging would provide a long term benefit to shareholders.
The Group may hedge certain the US dollar on the value of financial instruments.
The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on: net earnings, Underlying earnings and equity, commitments with some of its customers or suppliers.
Details of commodity derivatives held at 31 December 2011 are set out in note 32 assuming that each exchange rate moves in isolation.
The sensitivities are based on financial assets and liabilities held at 31 December 2011, where B a to c Financial instruments.
balances are not denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity accounted units.
Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under contract, often long term, at prices determined by reference to prevailing market They also exclude exchange movements on local currency deferred tax balances and provisions.
These balances will not remain constant throughout prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange LME and COMEX in New York, usually at the time of delivery.
Prices fluctuate widely 2012, and therefore the sensitivities should be used with care.
in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply.
Gold is also priced in an At 31 December 2011 active market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of supply: investment and Gains losses associated with a 10% weakening of the currency disinvestment can be important elements of supply and demand.
Contract prices for many other natural resource products including coal are generally Of which agreed quarterly or for longer periods with customers, although volume commitments vary by product.
amount Closing Effect impacting Impact Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate are provisionally priced, ie the selling price is for a period normally ranging from 30 to 180 days exchange on net Underlying directly after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue recognised on provisionally rate earnings earnings on equity priced sales is based on estimates of fair value of the consideration receivable which is based on forward market prices.
At each reporting date Currency Exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose, the selling Australian dollar 101 536 78 1 price can be measured reliably for those products, such as copper for which an active and freely traded commodity market exists such as the London a Canadian dollar 98 1,190 41 Metal Exchange and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
South African rand 12 4 5 The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
Euro 130 239 22 1 New Zealand dollar 77 52 4 At the end of 2011, the Group had 181 million pounds of copper sales 2010: 270 million pounds that were provisionally priced at US344 cents per pound 2010: US428 cents per pound.
The final price of these sales will be determined during the first half of 2012.
A ten per cent change in the price of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales would increase or reduce net earnings by US$41 million 2010: US$72 million.
At 31 December 2010 Gains losses associated with a 10% weakening of the currency Approximately 17 per cent of Rio Tintos 2011 Underlying earnings from operating businesses came from products whose prices were terminal market Of which related and the remainder came from products priced by direct negotiation.
amount Closing Effect impacting Impact Commodity price sensitivity: Risks associated with derivatives exchange on net Underlying directly The Groups commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in market prices and include those aluminium forward and option contracts embedded rate earnings earnings on equity in electricity purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December 2011.
The Groups sensitivity to changes in market prices, based on the assumption that Currency Exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m the market price increases by ten per cent with all other variables held constant, expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups net earnings Australian dollar 102 209 75 2 for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity, would not be significant.
The Groups own use contracts are excluded from the sensitivity Canadian dollar 100 35 56 analysis as they are outside the scope of IAS 39.
Such contracts to buy or sell non financial items can be net settled but were entered into and continue South African rand 15 5 8 to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non financial item in accordance with the business units expected purchase, sale or usage Euro 133 276 2 requirements.
The sensitivity does not include the impact arising from balances with equity accounted units.
The impact of reflecting equity accounted New Zealand dollar 77 19 3 units primarily relates to the sensitivity to aluminium prices with a US$85 million reduction in net earnings 2010: US$100 million.
a As reported in note 1, effective 1 January 2011, Rio Tinto Alcan entities changed from US functional currency to local functional currency for accounting purposes.
The US dollar denominated external and intragroup debt held in Canada creates a currency exposure.
ii Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Rio Tintos interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating interest rates.
This approach is based on historical correlation between interest rates and commodity prices.
In some circumstances, a higher proportion of fixed rate funding may be considered appropriate.
As noted above, Rio Tinto hedges its interest rate and currency risk by entering into interest rate and currency derivatives to achieve its policies.
The market value of such instruments moves in alignment with the market and at times can act as an alternative source of funding.
The Group reviews the positions on a regular basis and may act to monetise in-the-money instruments either to take advantage of favourable market conditions or manage counterparty credit risk.
During 2011 the Group closed out interest rate swaps with a notional principal of US$1,325 million giving rise to a net cash inflow of US$96 million including accrued interest of US$15 million.
The interest rate swaps were in fair value hedge relationships prior to close out.
See section B c of note 32 Financial instruments for the details of currency and interest rate contracts relating to borrowings.
At the end of 2011, US$10.8 billion 2010: US$5.8 billion of the Groups adjusted total borrowings see note 25 was at fixed rates after taking into account interest rate swaps, resulting in a fixed to floating debt ratio of 60 per cent fixed to 40 per cent floating 2010: 41 per cent fixed to 59 per cent floating.
On a net debt basis, the fixed to floating debt ratio was 128 per cent fixed to 28 per cent floating 2010: 142 per cent fixed to 42 per cent floating.
The net debt ratio at the end of 2011 and 2010 reflects the high level of cash, cash equivalents and other liquid resources held by the Group and the impact of borrowings held at fixed rates.
A monthly Treasury report is provided to senior management which summarises corporate debt exposed to currency risks and, where applicable, the offsetting derivatives.
See section B c of note 32 Financial Instruments for the details of currency and interest rate contracts relating to borrowings.
See note 23 Borrowings for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2011.
Based on the Groups net debt refer to note 25 and other floating rate financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2011, the effect on net earnings of a half percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would be an increase of US$8 million 2010: increase of US$6 million reflecting the high level of cash at period end.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2012, however, and therefore the sensitivities should be used with care.
176 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued iii Commodity price risk 31 Financial risk management continued The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
com 177 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued In October 2010, the Group tendered US$1.9 billion of its Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited 5.875% bond due in 2013 and refinanced this with the issue 31 Financial risk management continued of three fixed rate Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited bonds amounting to US$500 million 1.875% bond due 2015, US$1,000 million 3.5% bond due 2020 and US$500 million 5.2% bond due 2040. iv Credit risk In November 2010, the group entered into a US$6 billion five year multi-currency committed revolving credit facility with its relationship banks.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
At 31 December 2011, the facility was undrawn.
Any borrowings under this facility are at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily from customer receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
The facility is not subject to any financial covenants.
The overall agreement also enables with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
same day access to a US$ swing-line facility.
The funds available under the facility agreement may be used for general corporate purposes of the Group.
Credit risks related to receivables The Groups net debt as a percentage of total capital was 12 per cent at 31 December 2011 2010: six per cent.
Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to Rio Tintos established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk management.
Credit limits are established for all customers based on internal or external rating criteria.
Where customers are rated by an independent The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date credit rating agency, these ratings are used to set credit limits.
In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, the credit quality of the to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any credit concerns agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
High risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2011, the Group had approximately 108 customers 2010: 138 customers that owed the Group more than US$5 million each and these Trade Expected Derivatives Other balances accounted for approximately 76 per cent 2010: 70 per cent of all receivables owing.
There were 46 customers 2010: 57 customers with and other Borrowings future interest related to financial a a b payables before swaps payments net debt liabilities Total balances greater than US$20 million accounting for just over 55 per cent 2010: just over 53 per cent of total amounts receivable.
Note 18 provides US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m details of trade and other receivables past due but not impaired.
Financial liabilities The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets mentioned in note 21.
The Group does Within 1 year, or on demand 7,724 1,264 1,093 1,400 246 11,727 not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
Between 1 and 2 years 397 1,226 830 1 255 2,709 Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits Between 2 and 3 years 2,696 713 27 3,436 Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a board approved policy.
Investments Between 3 and 4 years 1,056 630 15 1,701 of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are Between 4 and 5 years 1,233 606 16 1,855 reviewed by the Rio Tinto board on an annual basis, and may be updated throughout the year subject to relevant approval.
The limits are set to After 5 years 13,492 4,794 4 18,290 minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate the potential for financial loss through counterparty failure.
This included US$7.5 billion US$8.2 billion invested in short term deposits consisting of US$5.8 billion 2010: US$ nil held in US Treasury funds and the remaining amount principally held in a At 31 December 2010 Restated diversified portfolio of liquidity funds.
Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans amounted to US$1.8 billion 2010: US$1.5 billlion.
Trade Expected Derivatives Other and other Borrowing future interest related to financial a a b v Liquidity and Capital risk management payables before swaps payments net debt liabilities Total The Groups total capital is defined as equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus equity attributable to non-controlling interests plus net debt and US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m amounted to US$68 billion at 31 December 2011 2010: US$69 billion.
Where debt is subject to variable interest rates, future interest payments are subject to change in line with The boards overriding objective when managing capital is to safeguard the business as a going concern whilst maximising returns for the companies market rates.
In practice, this involves regular reviews by the board of the Groups capital structure.
These reviews take into account the Groups b The Group has agreed to provide Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. with an interim loan facility of US$1,800 million while Rio Tinto and Ivanhoe work together to complete project financing for the development of the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project.
At 31 December 2011, US$1,399 million 2010: US$1,800 million remained undrawn and is reflected in amounts within one year, or on demand.
strategic priorities, economic and business conditions and opportunities that are identified to invest across all points of the commodities cycle, and the focus on its progressive dividend policy, whilst also striving to maintain the Groups single A credit rating with both Standard & Poors and Moodys.
The resulting capital structure provides the Group with a high degree of financial flexibility at a low cost of capital.
The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
During the 2011 financial year, in recognition of the Groups improved financial position, Standard & Poors S&P raised the Groups long-term rating from BBB to Aand retained the short term rating at A-2 with a stable outlook.
In 2010, S&P retained the Groups long term rating at BBB and the short term rating at A-2 with an improvement in outlook from stable to positive.
In 2011, Moodys retained the Groups long-term credit rating at A3 and the short term rating at P-2 with a stable outlook.
In 2010, Moodys improved the Groups long-term credit rating from Baa1 to A3 and the short-term credit rating was P-2 with a stable outlook.
In February 2011, the Group commenced a US$5 billion share buy-back programme which, subject to market conditions, was intended to be completed by the end of 2012.
In August 2011, the share buy-back programme was increased by US$2 billion to US$7 billion, and which, subject to market conditions, is due to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2012.
At 31 December 2011, 91 million Rio Tinto plc shares have been bought back at a total cost of US$5.5 billion.
In May 2011, the Group issued three Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited bonds amounting to US$700 million 2.5% bond due 2016, US$1,000 million 4.125% bond due 2021 and US$300 million 5.2% bond due 2040.
This was followed by the issue of three further Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited bonds in September 2011 amounting to US$500 million 2.25% bond due 2016, US$1,150 million 3.75% bond due 2021 and US$350 million 5.2% bond due 2040.
In 2011, Oyu Tolgoi LLC received additional funding through shareholder loans from wholly owned subsidiaries of Ivanhoe Mines Limited which amounted to US$2.2 billion.
Of this funding, Ivanhoe Mines Limited an EAU was funded US$1.7 billion by Rio Tinto.
In 2010, additional funding through shareholder loans was US$109 million which the Group funded through Ivanhoe Mines Limited.
178 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report RI026 p130 219 Financials.
indd 178 06 03 2012 18:30 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued In October 2010, the Group tendered US$1.9 billion of its Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited 5.875% bond due in 2013 and refinanced this with the issue 31 Financial risk management continued of three fixed rate Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited bonds amounting to US$500 million 1.875% bond due 2015, US$1,000 million 3.5% bond due 2020 and US$500 million 5.2% bond due 2040. iv Credit risk In November 2010, the group entered into a US$6 billion five year multi-currency committed revolving credit facility with its relationship banks.
b The Group has agreed to provide Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. with an interim loan facility of US$1,800 million while Rio Tinto and Ivanhoe work together to complete project financing for the development shareholders.
These reviews take into account the Groups of the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project.
strategic priorities, economic and business conditions and opportunities that are identified to invest across all points of the commodities cycle, the focus on its progressive dividend policy, whilst also striving to maintain the Groups single A credit rating with both Standard & Poors and Moodys.
com 179 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued 32 32 Financial instruments Financial instruments B B Derivative Derivative financial financial instruments instruments Excep Except t wher where e sta stat ted, ed, the the informatio information n given given belo below w rela relates tes t to o th the e financial financial instrum instruments ents of of the the pare parent nt co compa mpan nies ies and and their their sub subs sidi idiaries aries and and pro prop po ortionally rtionally The The Groups Groups deriv derivatives, atives, in including cluding embedded embedded derivati derivatives, ves, as as at at 31 31 D fide ecember cember 2011, 2011, are are su summarised mmarised below: below: consolidat consolidated ed units, units, and and exclud excludes es those those of of equity equity accounted accounted units.
The The iin nform formation ation is is gro grou uped ped in in th the e foll follow owing ing sections: sections: a a Forwa Forwar rd d cont contr ra acts cts rela relati ting ng to to op opera erating ting t tr rans ansa act ctio ions: ns: d fide esig signat nated ed as as hedg hedges es Tota Total l fai fair r Va Valu lue e A A Financial Financial assets assets and and li liabilities abilities by by categories categories B B Derivative Derivative fina financial ncial instrum instruments ents 2 2011 011 2010 2010 C C Fair Fair values values A Asse sset t Lia Liab bi il lit ity y As Asset set Li Liab abil ilit ity y US$m US$m US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Copper Copper forw forward ard co contract ntracts s 2 210 10 409 409 A A Fina Financial ncial assets assets and and liabilities liabilities by by categories categories Hel Held d to to m ma at tu ur riity ty Alum Alumiin nium ium fo forwa rwar rd d contrac contract ts s em embedded bedded in in elect electr ricit icity y pu pur rc chase hase co contr ntracts acts 7 72 2 12 12 Avai Availa lable ble a as ss se ets ts o oth the er r Aluminium optio Aluminium option ns s embedded in embedded in el elect ectr ric icit ity y pu purch rchase ase con cont tracts racts 1 14 4 L Lo oan ans s and and for for sa sale le Held Held at at fi fina nanci ncia all Total Total 8 86 6 21 210 0 421 421 Tota Total l recei receiv va ab ble les s se secu curi ritie ties s fair fair v va alue lue li liab abil ilit itie ies s No Note te US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m US US$m $m US US$m $m At At 3 31 1 D fide ec ce emb mbe er r 20 2011 11 Financial Financial assets assets Les Less s th tha an n 1 1 y yea ear r 7 75 5 11 118 8 159 159 Cash Cash a an nd d ca cash sh eq equ uiivale valents nts 2 22 2 9, 9,67 670 0 9, 9,670 670 Between Between 1 1 and and 5 5 years years 1 11 1 9 92 2 262 262 a a Trade Trade a an nd d othe other r receivable receivables s 1 18 8 6, 6,73 738 8 6, 6,738 738 Total Total 8 86 6 21 210 0 421 421 Equit Equity y s sh ha ar res es a an nd d quoted quoted funds funds 2 21 1 70 702 2 702 702 Reco Reconc ncilia iliatio tion n to to s st tatem atement ent o of f fi finan nanc cial ial pos posi itio tion n c ca at te eg go ori ries es for for d fide erivat rivati iv five es s des desi ig gnat nated ed as as h he edg dges es O Ot ther her iin nves vestm tme ents nts, inc incllud udin ing g loa loan ns s 2 21 1 73 738 8 140 140 338 338 260 260 2 2011 011 2010 2010 Currenc Currency y a an nd d commodity commodity cont contra ract cts s d fide esig sign nated ated a as s hedg hedges es 86 86 86 86 US$m US$m US US$m $m Derivat Derivatiives ves a an nd d embedded embedded derivat derivatiives ves not not rel rela ated ted to to net net d fide ebt: bt: non-curre non-current nt as asse sets ts note note 21 21 1 11 1 not not designated designated as as hedges hedges 2 21 1 4 45 5 45 45 curre current nt a as sset sets s n note ote 21 21 7 75 5 Derivat Derivatiives ves related related to to net net debt debt 2 21 1 34 347 7 347 347 curre current nt lliiab abil ilitie ities s note note 23 23 11 118 8 159 159 Loans Loans to to equit equity y acc acco ounted unted units units incl inclu ud din ing g qua quas si i eq equit uity y llo oans ans 1, 1,81 816 6 1, 1,816 816 nonnon-cu curre rrent nt lliiab abil ilitie ities s note note 23 23 9 92 2 262 262 Total Total fina financial ncial as assets sets 2 20, 0,142 142 18 18,364, 364 702 702 816 816 260 260 Total Total deriva derivatives tives designated designated as as he hedges, dges, detailed detailed ab above ove 12 124 4 421 421 Financial Financial liabilities liabilities The The abov above e c co opper pper forward forward contract contracts s wer were e enter entere ed d into into as as a a c co ondition ndition of of the the refi refinancing nancing of of Palabora Palabora in in 2005, 2005, and and to to reduc reduce e the the G Groups roups exposure exposure b b Trade Trade a an nd d othe other r pa pay ya ables bles 2 26 6 8, 8,12 121 1 8 8,121, 121 to to mov move em me ents nts in in the the c copp opper er price.
Short Short term term borrow borrowings ings and and ba bank nk overdrafts overdrafts 22 22, 23 23 1, 1,26 263 3 1 1,263, 263 The The abov above e alu alum minium inium forward forward contr contra acts cts w we ere re en entere tered d into into t to o hedg hedge e th the e sales sales of of high high cos cost t sm smelters elters an and d t to o c co onvert nvert alu alum minium inium sales sales s so old ld at at a a fixed fixed Medi Medium um and and lo long ng t te erm rm borrow borrowiin ng gs s 2 23 3 20 20, 1 185 85 20 20, 185 185 a a price price to to LME LME cash cash..
The The ineffectiv ineffective e p po ortion rtion arising arising from from fair fair value value hedg hedges es rec reco ognised gnised in in t th he e incom income e st state atem ment ent was was US$5 US$5 mill million ion b before efore tax.
Defer Deferr red ed cons conside ider ra at tion ion 26 26 9 94 4 94 94 Forwa Forwar rd d c commodity ommodity cont contracts racts:: des desiignated gnated as as hed hedg ges es 2 23 3 21 210 0 210 210 Aluminium Aluminium price price exposures exposures are are e em mbed bedd ded ed within within cer cert tain ain alum aluminium inium s sm melter elter e electr lectricity icity pur purc chase hase con cont tracts.
These These contracts contracts reduce reduce the the Group Groups s exposure exposure to to m mo ove vements ments in in the the alu alum minium inium price.
Derivat Derivatiives ves related related to to net net debt debt 2 23 3 2 2 2 2 Other Other derivat derivatiive ves s a an nd d embedded embedded derivative derivatives s not not des desiigna gnat ted ed b b Forw Forward ard a and nd o op ption tion con contra tracts cts rel rela ating ting to to o op pe er rat ating ing trans transa act ctions ions: : no not t des desi ig gnat nated ed as as he hed dg ges es as as hedge hedges s 2 23 3 8 87 7 87 87 Tota Total l fai fair r Va Valu lue e O Ot ther her f fiin na anc ncial ial li liabi abillit ities ies 2 23 3 5 57 7 57 57 2 2011 011 2010 2010 Total Total financial financial liabilities liabilities 30 30, 0 019 19 299 299 29 29, 720 720 A Asse sset t Lia Liab bi il lit ity y As Asset set Li Liab abil ilit ity y US$m US$m US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Re Rest state ated d Hel Held d to to m ma at tu ur riity ty Cur Curr renc ency y fo for rwa war rd d c co ontract ntracts s a an nd d swaps swaps 2 22 2 6 6 5 5 4 4 Avai Availa lable ble a as ss se ets ts o oth the er r Alum Alumiin nium ium fo forwa rwar rd d contrac contract ts s 1 19 9 3 34 4 131 131 17 17 Re Rest state ated d L Lo oan ans s and and for for sa sale le Held Held at at fi fina nanci ncia all Tot Tota all recei receiv va ab ble les s se secu curi ritie ties s fair fair v va alue lue li liab abil ilit itie ies s Aluminium optio Aluminium option ns s embedded in embedded in el elect ectr ric icit ity y pu purch rchase ase con cont tracts racts 1 1 1 15 5 43 43 31 31 D fide ecemb cembe er r 2010 2010 N Not ote e US US$m $m US US$m $m US US$m $m US US$m $m US US$m $m Alum Alumiin nium ium fo forwa rwar rd d contrac contract ts s em embedded bedded in in elect electr ricit icity y pu pur rc chase hase co contr ntracts acts 3 3 4 4 Financial Financial assets assets Other Other embed embedded ded deriv deriva atives tives 3 32 2 101 101 Cash Cash a an nd d ca cash sh eq equ uiivale valents nts 2 22 2 9, 9,948 948 9, 9,948 948 O Ot ther her com comm mo odity dity c co ontract ntracts s 7 7 a a Trade Trade a an nd d othe other r receivable receivables s 1 18 8 5, 5,708 708 5, 5,708 708 Total Total 4 45 5 8 87 7 143 143 169 169 Equit Equity y s sh ha ar res es a an nd d quoted quoted funds funds 2 21 1 950 950 950 950 O Ot ther her iin nves vestm tme ents nts, inc incllud udin ing g loa loan ns s 2 21 1 655 655 185 185 6 64 4 289 289 117 117 Les Less s th tha an n 1 1 y yea ear r 4 40 0 6 65 5 124 124 106 106 Derivat Derivatiives ves a an nd d embedded embedded derivat derivatiives ves not not rel rela ated ted to to net net d fide ebt: bt: Between Between 1 1 and and 5 5 years years 5 5 2 22 2 18 18 47 47 not not designated designated as as hedges hedges 2 21 1 143 143 143 143 More More th than an 5 5 yea year rs s 1 1 16 16 Derivat Derivatiives ves related related to to net net debt debt 2 21 1 143 143 143 143 Total Total 4 45 5 8 87 7 143 143 169 169 Loans Loans to to equit equity y acc acco ounted unted units units incl inclu ud din ing g qua quas si i eq equit uity y llo oans ans 1, 1,473 473 1, 1,473 473 Total Total fina financial ncial as assets sets 19 19,020, 020 17 17,314, 314 1, 1,014 014 575 575 117 117 Financial Financial liabilities liabilities b b Trade Trade a an nd d othe other r pa pay ya ables bles 26 26 5 5,560, 560 5 5,560, 560 Short Short term term borrow borrowings ings and and ba bank nk overdrafts overdrafts 22 22, 23 23 1 1,064, 064 1 1, 064 064 Medi Medium um and and lo long ng t te erm rm borrow borrowiin ng gs s 23 23 13 13, 277 277 13 13,277, 277 a a Defer Deferr red ed cons conside ider ra at tion ion 26 26 108 108 108 108 Forwa Forwar rd co d commodity mmodity cont contracts racts:: des desiignated as hed gnated as hedg ges es 2 23 3 421 421 421 421 Derivat Derivatiives ves related related to to net net debt debt 2 23 3 34 34 34 34 Other Other derivat derivatiive ves s a an nd d embedded embedded derivative derivatives s not not des desiigna gnat ted ed as as hedge hedges s 2 23 3 169 169 169 169 O Ot ther her f fiin na anc ncial ial li liabi abillit ities ies 2 23 3 57 57 57 57 Total Total financial financial liabilities liabilities 20 20, 690 690 624 624 20 20, 066 066 a a This This exclu excludes des pe pensio nsion n s su urpluses, rpluses, prepay prepaymen ment t o of f t tolling olling charges charges t to o joi join ntly tly cont controlled rolled en ent tit itiies es an and d ot oth he er r prepaym prepayme en nt ts s an and d ac acc crued rued income income.. b b Trade Trade a an nd d o ot ther her payabl payables es includ includes es t tr rad ade e cre cred ditors, itors, amount amounts s ow owed ed t to o e eq quit uity y acco accounted unted uni unit ts s, o ot ther her credi credit tors ors excludi excludin ng g deferr deferred ed c co on ns siderat ideration ion sh show own n separat separate ely ly an and d ac acc cr ru ua als.
180 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 181 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 32 Financial instruments B Derivative financial instruments Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and proportionally The Groups derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2011, are summarised below: consolidated units, and excludes those of equity accounted units.
The information is grouped in the following sections: a Forward contracts relating to operating transactions: designated as hedges Total fair Value A Financial assets and liabilities by categories B Derivative financial instruments 2011 2010 C Fair values Asset Liability Asset Liability US$m US$m US$m US$m Copper forward contracts 210 409 A Financial assets and liabilities by categories Held to maturity Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 72 12 Available assets other Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts 14 Loans and for sale Held at financial Total 86 210 421 Total receivables securities fair value liabilities Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2011 Financial assets Less than 1 year 75 118 159 Cash and cash equivalents 22 9,670 9,670 Between 1 and 5 years 11 92 262 a Trade and other receivables 18 6,738 6,738 Total 86 210 421 Equity shares and quoted funds 21 702 702 Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories for derivatives designated as hedges Other investments, including loans 21 738 140 338 260 2011 2010 Currency and commodity contracts designated as hedges 86 86 US$m US$m Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: non-current assets note 21 11 not designated as hedges 21 45 45 current assets note 21 75 Derivatives related to net debt 21 347 347 current liabilities note 23 118 159 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 1,816 1,816 non-current liabilities note 23 92 262 Total financial assets 20,142 18,364 702 816 260 Total derivatives designated as hedges, detailed above 124 421 Financial liabilities The above copper forward contracts were entered into as a condition of the refinancing of Palabora in 2005, and to reduce the Groups exposure b Trade and other payables 26 8,121 8,121 to movements in the copper price.
Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22, 23 1,263 1,263 The above aluminium forward contracts were entered into to hedge the sales of high cost smelters and to convert aluminium sales sold at a fixed Medium and long term borrowings 23 20,185 20,185 a price to LME cash.
The ineffective portion arising from fair value hedges recognised in the income statement was US$5 million before tax.
Deferred consideration 26 94 94 Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges 23 210 210 Aluminium price exposures are embedded within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
These contracts reduce the Groups exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
Derivatives related to net debt 23 2 2 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated b Forward and option contracts relating to operating transactions: not designated as hedges as hedges 23 87 87 Total fair Value Other financial liabilities 23 57 57 2011 2010 Total financial liabilities 30,019 299 29,720 Asset Liability Asset Liability US$m US$m US$m US$m Restated Held to maturity Currency forward contracts and swaps 22 6 5 4 Available assets other Aluminium forward contracts 19 34 131 17 Restated Loans and for sale Held at financial Total receivables securities fair value liabilities Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts 1 15 43 31 December 2010 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 3 4 Financial assets Other embedded derivatives 32 101 Cash and cash equivalents 22 9,948 9,948 Other commodity contracts 7 a Trade and other receivables 18 5,708 5,708 Total 45 87 143 169 Equity shares and quoted funds 21 950 950 Other investments, including loans 21 655 185 64 289 117 Less than 1 year 40 65 124 106 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: Between 1 and 5 years 5 22 18 47 not designated as hedges 21 143 143 More than 5 years 1 16 Derivatives related to net debt 21 143 143 Total 45 87 143 169 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 1,473 1,473 Total financial assets 19,020 17,314 1,014 575 117 Financial liabilities b Trade and other payables 26 5,560 5,560 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22, 23 1,064 1,064 Medium and long term borrowings 23 13,277 13,277 a Deferred consideration 26 108 108 Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges 23 421 421 Derivatives related to net debt 23 34 34 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as hedges 23 169 169 Other financial liabilities 23 57 57 Total financial liabilities 20,690 624 20,066 a This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities and other prepayments and accrued income.
b Trade and other payables includes trade creditors, amounts owed to equity accounted units, other creditors excluding deferred consideration shown separately and accruals.
com 181 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Valuation hierarchy 32 Financial instruments continued The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value in table 32 a by valuation method.
Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories for derivatives not designated as hedges Not held 2011 2010 a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value US$m US$m At 31 December 2011 non-current assets note 21 5 19 Assets current assets note 21 40 124 Equity shares and quoted funds note 21 702 643 14 45 current liabilities note 23 65 106 Other investments, including loans note 21 738 145 193 400 non-current liabilities note 23 22 63 1,440 788 14 238 400 Total derivatives not designated as hedges, detailed above 42 26 Derivatives a Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B of note 32 124 138 14 Embedded options exist within electricity purchase contracts for certain smelters.
These derivatives reduce the Groups exposure to movements in the Forward contracts and option contracts not designated as hedges aluminium price.
A number of put and call options were combined to form synthetic forward contracts that were designated as hedges of variable priced b Section B of note 32 42 1 32 11 aluminium sales.
c Interest rate swap agreements Section B of note 32 345 345 The above aluminium forward contracts were taken out to manage exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
These contracts are not designated 1,619 789 189 241 400 as hedges as they are predominantly offset by other aluminium forward contracts.
c Currency and interest contracts relating to borrowings Not held a b c Total fair Value At 31 December 2010 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value 2011 2010 Assets Asset Liability Asset Liability Equity shares and quoted funds note 21 950 897 16 37 US$m US$m US$m US$m Other investments, including loans note 21 619 150 203 266 Interest Contracts designated as hedges 341 1 132 34 1,569 1,047 16 240 266 Interest Contracts not designated as hedges 6 1 11 Derivatives a Total 347 2 143 34 Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B of note 32 421 409 12 Forward contracts and option contracts not designated as hedges b Less than 1 year 5 1 6 Section B of note 32 26 16 42 c Between 1 and 5 years 88 1 87 17 Interest rate swap agreements Section B of note 32 109 110 1 More than 5 years 254 50 17 1,231 1,047 267 185 266 Total 347 2 143 34 a Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.
b Valuation is based on inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories for currency and interest derivatives active or either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
2011 2010 c Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
US$m US$m Level 3 Financial assets and financial liabilities non-current assets note 21 342 137 The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities for the year ended current assets note 21 5 6 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010. current liabilities note 23 1 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 non-current liabilities note 23 1 34 Level 3 financial assets and Level 3 financial assets and Total currency and interest rate contracts, detailed above 345 109 financial liabilities financial liabilities Opening balance 185 96 The interest rate contracts are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate.
Currency translation adjustments 2 2 The ineffective portion arising from fair value hedges recognised in the income statement was a credit of US$3 million 2010: charge of US$10 million: Realised gains to income statement 17 91 2009: nil.
Unrealised losses to income statement 30 147 Unrealised losses to comprehensive income 14 C Fair values Additions 6 27 The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates to their fair Disposals 7 18 value at 31 December are shown in the following table.
The fair values of the Groups cash, short term borrowings and loans to jointly controlled entities Closing balance 241 185 and associates approximate their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
Total losses for the year included in the income statement for assets and 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 liabilities held at year end 26 97 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value US$m US$m US$m US$m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations Medium and long-term borrowings note 23 20,185 21,863 13,277 15,875 182 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Valuation hierarchy 32 Financial instruments continued The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value in table 32 a by valuation method.
Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories for derivatives not designated as hedges 2011 2010 Not held a b c US$m US$m At 31 December 2011 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value non-current assets note 21 5 19 Assets current assets note 21 40 124 Equity shares and quoted funds note 21 702 643 14 45 current liabilities note 23 65 106 Other investments, including loans note 21 738 145 193 400 non-current liabilities note 23 22 63 1,440 788 14 238 400 Total derivatives not designated as hedges, detailed above 42 26 Derivatives a Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B of note 32 124 138 14 Embedded options exist within electricity purchase contracts for certain smelters.
c Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
2011 2010 US$m US$m Level 3 Financial assets and financial liabilities non-current assets note 21 342 137 The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities for the year ended current assets note 21 5 6 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010. current liabilities note 23 1 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 non-current liabilities note 23 1 34 Level 3 financial assets and Level 3 financial assets and Total currency and interest rate contracts, detailed above 345 109 financial liabilities financial liabilities Opening balance 185 96 The interest rate contracts are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate.
Unrealised losses to income statement 30 147 Unrealised losses to comprehensive income 14 C Fair values Additions 6 27 The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates to their fair Disposals 9 18 value at 31 December are shown in the following table.
Total losses for the year included in the income statement for assets and 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 liabilities held at year end 26 97 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value US$m US$m US$m US$m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations Medium and long-term borrowings note 23 20,185 21,863 13,277 15,875 riotinto.
indd 183 06 03 2012 16:35 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued 33 33 Continge Contingent nt liabilities liabilities a an nd d c commitments ommitments 34 34 Average Average number number of of employees employees 2 2011 011 2010 2010 S Su ubs bsidi idia ari ries es and and p pr ropo opor rti tion onall ally y Eq Equi uity ty a ac cco coun unte ted d u unit nits s a a G Gr roup oup T To otal tal US$m US$m US US$m $m c cons onsol olid idat ated ed un uniits ts R Rio io Tin Tint to o s sh hare are a a 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 Capital Capital commitments commitments including including th those ose rela related ted to to joi joint nt ventures ventures and and associates associates Within 1 Within 1 y year ear 9, 9,70 700 0 5, 5,219 219 The The principal principal loca locations tions of of employ employment ment w we ere: re: Between Between 1 1 and and 3 3 years years 3, 3,30 300 0 2, 2,264 264 Aust Austral raliia a and and New New Zealand Zealand 2 20, 0,875 875 18 18,772, 772 17 17,537, 537 2, 2,54 544 4 2, 2,428 428 2, 2,355 355 2 23, 3,419 419 21 21,200, 200 19 19,892, 892 Between Between 3 3 and and 5 5 years years 4 41 1 90 90 Canada Canada 1 13, 3,689 689 13 13,418, 418 12 12,957, 957 29 295 5 295 295 500 500 1 13, 3,984 984 13 13,713, 713 13 13,457, 457 Total Total 1 13, 3,041 041 7, 7,573 573 Europe Europe 6, 6,60 601 1 15 15,205, 205 16 16,965, 965 3, 3,37 377 7 223 223 274 274 9 9, 9 978 78 15 15,428, 428 17 17,239, 239 a a Inclu Included ded iin n the the above above t ta able ble are are ot other her commitm commitme en nts ts of of US$ US$39 39 million million 20 2010: 10: U US S$25 $25 million.
C Capi apital tal commi commitme tmen nts ts iin ncurr curred ed by by th the e Grou Group p relat relatiing ng t to o join joint t ven vent tu ur res es and and assoc associat iate es s amoun amount t t to o US$215 US$215 million million 20 2010 10:: US$ US$1,4 1,421 21 million.
Ca Capita pital l commitm commitments ents inc incu urre rred d join jointly tly wit with h ot other her v five en nt tu ur rers ers Rio Rio Tin Tint to o share share re relating lating t to o joint joint five ventures ntures amount amount to to US$1 US$1, 260 260 mil milllion ion 2010 2010: : US US$695 $695 million.
Afr Afriica ca 6, 6,10 107 7 5, 5,451 451 6, 6,539 539 2, 2,32 328 8 2, 2,204 204 1, 1,673 673 8, 8,43 435 5 7, 7,655 655 8, 8,212 212 In In addi addition tion to to t th he e above, above, in in 2010 2010, the the Grou Group p prov provided ided Ivan Ivanhoe hoe M Miines fines Ltd Ltd.. with with a an n in interim terim loan loan faci facility lity of of U US S$1, $1,800 800 million million whi while le R Riio o T Tiin nt to o an and d IIv vanh anho oe e w work ork t to oget geth her er to to complete complete project project fi financi nancin ng g for for United States United States 4, 4,99 995 5 6, 6,416 416 8, 8,830 830 40 406 6 721 721 8 80 0 5, 5,40 401 1 7, 7,137 137 8, 8,910 910 the the developme development nt of of th the e Oyu Oyu Tolg Tolgoi oi copper-g copper-gold old project.
A At t 31 31 fide December cember 2011 2011 t th he e amoun amount t rem remai ain ning ing u un ndraw drawn n was was US US$1 $1,399, 399 million million 2 201 010: 0: U US S$ $1 1,800, 800 million.
Ref Refe er r to to note note 39 39 for for f fu urther rther det detai ails ls relat relatiin ng g t to o t th he e Grou Group ps s iin nt te erest rest in in IIv van anh ho oe e Min Mine es s Lt Ltd. d. and and O Oy yu u T Tolgoi.
Emp Employee loyee nu numbers mbers for for proport proportion iona ally lly c co on nsoli solidat dated ed and and equ equiit ty y acc acco oun unfit te ed d Within 1 Within 1 y year ear 52 523 3 507 507 units units are are proportional proportional to to th the e Groups Groups iin nt te erest.
A Av verag erage e employee employee num numbe bers rs include include a a part part y year ear e ef ff fe ect ct for for comp companies anies acqui acquir red ed or or d disposed isposed of of durin during g the the year.
Between Between 1 1 and and 3 3 years years 76 766 6 854 854 Part Part tim time e em employees ployees ar are e incl included uded on on a a f fu ull ll tim time e equi equivalen valent t basis.
Tem Temp porary orary employees employees are are in inc clluded uded iin n e employee mployee n nu um mbers.
Between Between 3 3 and and 5 5 years years 56 564 4 561 561 People People employed employed by by c co on nt tract ractors ors are are n no ot t inc incllu ud ded.
After After 5 5 yea year rs s 1, 1,05 052 2 1, 1,107 107 2, 2,90 905 5 3, 3,029 029 Unc Unco ond nditio itional final p pu ur rc chas hase e obl obli igati gation ons s The The aggregate aggregate a am mount ount of of future future pay paym ment ent co com mm mitm itme en nt ts s for for th the e next next five five y ye ears ars under under unco uncon ndit ditional ional p purchas urchase e o ob bligations ligations outs outstanding tanding a at t 3 31 1 D Dec ecem embe ber r was: was: 2 2011 011 2010 2010 US$m US$m US US$m $m Within 1 Within 1 y year ear 2, 2,57 578 8 2, 2,295 295 Between Between 1 1 and and 2 2 years years 2, 2,08 080 0 1, 1,466 466 Between Between 2 2 and and 3 3 years years 1, 1,74 748 8 1, 1,468 468 Between Between 3 3 and and 4 4 years years 1, 1,63 631 1 1, 1,305 305 Between Between 4 4 and and 5 5 years years 1, 1,58 580 0 1, 1,210 210 After After 5 5 yea year rs s 1 12, 2,303 303 10 10,156, 156 2 21, 1,920 920 17 17,900, 900 Unconditional Unconditional pur purc chase hase o ob bligations ligations relate relate to to co commit mmitm ments ents to to ma make ke pa pay ym ments ents in in th the e fut future ure for for fixe fixed d or or minimu minimum m quantitie quantities s of of go good ods s or or servic services es at at fixed fixed or or minimu minimum m price prices s..
The The future future pa pay ym ment ent co com mm mitm itme en nt ts s se set t out out ab above ove h ha ave five not not be been en di disc scounted ounted an and d mainly mainly relate relate to to co commi mmitmen tments ts under under ta tak ke e or or pay pay pow power er and and freight freight contracts.
They They e ex xclude clude uncon unconditio dition final al purchase purchase o ob bli ligations gations of of join jointly tly controlle controlled d entities entities apart apart fro from m those those re relating lating to to the the Group Groups s tolling tolling arrangem arrangements.
2 2011 011 2010 2010 US$m US$m US US$m $m Contingent Contingent liabili liabilities ties excluding excluding those those re relating lating t to o jo joi int nt ventures ventures and and a associa ssociates tes Indemnit Indemnities ies a an nd d other other pe performa rformance nce guarantees guarantees 70 706 6 557 557 a a Conting Continge ent nt liabili liabilities ties relating relating to to joi join nt t vent ventures ures and and a associates ssociates Inc Incu ur rr red ed in in relat relatiion on to to inte interests rests in in jo joint int ventu ventur res es 14 147 7 214 214 Inc Incu ur rr red ed in in relat relatiion on to to other other five ventu ntur rer ers s conti contin nge gent nt lliiab abilit ilitiie es s 7 78 8 79 79 a a A Amou moun nt ts s disc disclosed losed in inc cllu ude fide t th hose ose ar ariisin sing g as as a a res resu ult lt of of th the e Grou Group ps s in invest vestment ments s in in bo bot th h joint jointlly y c co on nt trolled rolled asset assets s a an nd d jjo oin int tlly y c co ont ntrolled rolled ent entiit tiies es.. b b There There are are a a nu number mber of of lle egal gal cl claims aims c cu urrent rrently ly ou out ts st ta an nd ding ing agains against t t th he e Group.
No No ma mat te erial rial loss loss t to o t th he e Group Group is is expec expect te ed d to to re result sult from from th these ese clai claims.
ms. 184 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 185 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 33 Contingent liabilities and commitments 34 Average number of employees 2011 2010 Subsidiaries and proportionally Equity accounted units a Group Total US$m US$m consolidated units Rio Tinto share a 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Capital commitments including those related to joint ventures and associates Within 1 year 9,700 5,219 The principal locations of employment were: Between 1 and 3 years 3,300 2,264 Australia and New Zealand 20,875 18,772 17,537 2,544 2,428 2,355 23,419 21,200 19,892 Between 3 and 5 years 41 90 Canada 13,689 13,418 12,957 295 295 500 13,984 13,713 13,457 Total 13,041 7,573 Europe 6,601 15,205 16,965 3,377 223 274 9,978 15,428 17,239 a Included in the above table are other commitments of US$39 million 2010: US$25 million.
Capital commitments incurred by the Group relating to joint ventures and associates amount to US$215 million 2010: US$1,421 million.
Capital commitments incurred jointly with other venturers Rio Tinto share relating to joint ventures amount to US$1,260 million 2010: US$695 million.
Africa 6,107 5,451 6,539 2,328 2,204 1,673 8,435 7,655 8,212 In addition to the above, in 2010, the Group provided Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. with an interim loan facility of US$1,800 million while Rio Tinto and Ivanhoe work together to complete project financing for United States 4,995 6,416 8,830 406 721 80 5,401 7,137 8,910 the development of the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project.
At 31 December 2011 the amount remaining undrawn was US$1,399 million 2010: US$1,800 million.
Refer to note 39 for further details relating to the Groups interest in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. and Oyu Tolgoi.
Employee numbers for proportionally consolidated and equity accounted Within 1 year 523 507 units are proportional to the Groups interest.
Average employee numbers include a part year effect for companies acquired or disposed of during the year.
Between 1 and 3 years 766 854 Part time employees are included on a full time equivalent basis.
Temporary employees are included in employee numbers.
Between 3 and 5 years 564 561 People employed by contractors are not included.
After 5 years 1,052 1,107 2,905 3,029 Unconditional purchase obligations The aggregate amount of future payment commitments for the next five years under unconditional purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Within 1 year 2,578 2,295 Between 1 and 2 years 2,080 1,466 Between 2 and 3 years 1,748 1,468 Between 3 and 4 years 1,631 1,305 Between 4 and 5 years 1,580 1,210 After 5 years 12,303 10,156 21,920 17,900 Unconditional purchase obligations relate to commitments to make payments in the future for fixed or minimum quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices.
The future payment commitments set out above have not been discounted and mainly relate to commitments under take or pay power and freight contracts.
They exclude unconditional purchase obligations of jointly controlled entities apart from those relating to the Groups tolling arrangements.
2011 2010 US$m US$m Contingent liabilities excluding those relating to joint ventures and associates Indemnities and other performance guarantees 706 557 a Contingent liabilities relating to joint ventures and associates Incurred in relation to interests in joint ventures 147 214 Incurred in relation to other venturers contingent liabilities 78 79 a Amounts disclosed include those arising as a result of the Groups investments in both jointly controlled assets and jointly controlled entities.
b There are a number of legal claims currently outstanding against the Group.
No material loss to the Group is expected to result from these claims.
com 185 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued 35 35 Principal Principal subsidiaries subsidiaries a an nd d consolidated operations consolidated operations 36 36 Principal Principal joi join ntly tly control controlled led entities entities At At 31 31 fide Dec ce em mb be er r 2 2011 011 At At 31 31 fide Dec ce em mb be er r 2 2011 011 C Comp ompan any y an and c d cou oun nt tr ry y o of f C Clla ass ss o of f P Pr ropo opor rti tion on o of f Gro Grou up p in inte tere rest st C Comp ompan any y an and c d cou oun nt tr ry y o of f Nu Num mb ber er of of C Clla ass ss o of f P Pr ropo opor rti tion on o of f Gro Grou up p in int te ere rest st in inco cor rp por orat atio ion n op opera erat tiio on n P Pr rinc incip ipa all a ac ct tiv ivit itiie es s sh share ares s he helld d cl clas ass s held held % % % % in inco cor rp por orat atio ion n op opera erat tiio on n Pri Prin nci cip pa all a ac ct tiivi vitie ties s sh share ares s he helld d sh share ares s he helld d cl clas ass s held held % % % % Australi Australia a Australi Australia a a a Argy Argyle le Diamo Diamond nd L Limited imited Mining Mining and and p pr roces ocessing sing of of d diiamonds amonds O Ord rdiin nar ary y 100 100 100 100 Boy Boyn ne Smelters L e Smelters Liimited mited Alumi Alumin nium ium smelt smeltiin ng g 153 153,679,56, 679,560 0 O Ord rdin inary ary 59 59.4.
4 a a a a Coal Coal & & A Alllie lied d Ind Indu us st tries ries L Liimited mited Coal Coal mining mining O Ord rdiin nar ary y 80 80 80 80 Queensla Queenslan nd d Alumina Alumina Lim Limiited ted A Allu um min ina a pr pro od du uc cti tion on 1, 1,769,600 769,600 O Ord rdiin nar ary y 80 80 80 80 Dampi Dampier er Salt Li Salt Limi mit ted ed Salt pr Salt produ oduc ct tiion on O Or rd diin na ary ry 68 68.40.
40 68 68.. 40 40 Chile Chile b b Ener Energy gy Reso Resour urces ces of of Aust Austra ralia lia Li Limi mite ted d U Ur ran aniu ium m mi minin ning g C Cllass ass A A 68 68.39.
39 9 Mi Minera nera Escond Escondida ida Lim Limiitada tada Copper Copper m miin niing ng a an nd d ref refiin niin ng g 30 30 30 30 H Ha amer mers sle ley y IIr ro on n Pt Pty y Li Limi mited ted IIr ro on n or ore e m miini ning ng O Ord rdiin nar ary y 100 100 100 100 Mozambique Mozambique b b c c Queensla Queenslan nd Coa d Coall Pty Pty Lim Limiited ted Coal Coal mining mining O Ord rdiin nar ary y 100 100 100 100 Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Benga Benga M Ma au uri riti tius us Li Limi mited ted Coal Coal m miin niing ng iin n dev deve elopm lopment ent 381 381,322,34, 322,349 9 O Ord rdiin nar ary y 65 65 65 65 Rio Rio T Tiinto nto A Alum lumiin niu ium m Holdi Holdings ngs Lim Limiit te ed d Baux Bauxite ite m miini ning ng: : a alu lum mina ina p pr roduct oductiion on: : p pr rim ima ar ry y O Ord rdiin nar ary y 100 100 100 100 1 1 M Ma an na ag ge eme ment nt alumi alumin nium ium smelti smeltin ng g New New Zealand Zealand Canada Canada a a New New Zealand Zealand Alum Aluminium inium Smelters Smelters L Liimited mited Alumi Alumin nium ium smelt smeltiin ng g 24 24,998,400, 998,400 O Ord rdiin nar ary y 79 79.4.
4 c c Iro Iron n Ore Ore Company Company of of Canad Canada a Inc Inc.. Iro Iron n ore ore m miining: ning: iro iron n ore ore pe pellet llets s C Co ommon mmon s sh hare ares s 58 58.72.
72 58 58.. 72 72 Norway Norway Q QIIT-Fer T-Fer et et Tit Titane ane IIn nc.
c. Tita Titan niium um dio diox xide ide feedstock: feedstock: high puri high purit ty y iron iron and and stee steell C Co ommon mmon s sh hare ares s 100 100 100 100 S So orr-N No orge rge Al Alum umiin niiu um m A.
S.. Alum Alumiin nium ium sm smelt eltiin ng g 500 500,000, 000 O Ord rdiin nar ary y 50 50 50 50 C Cllass ass B B p pr ref efere eren nc ce e share shares s 100 100 100 100 Oman Oman C CA AD D 0 0.. 01 01 preferre preferred d s sh hare ares s 100 100 100 100 S So ohar har A Allum umiin nium ium Com Comp pany any L L.. L L.. C. C. Alum Alumiin nium ium sm smelt eltiin ng g p power ower ge gener nera atio tion n 37 37,500, 500 O Ord rdiin nar ary y 20 20 20 20 Rio Rio T Tiinto nto A Alca lcan n IIn nc c.. Baux Bauxite ite m miini ning ng: : a alu lum mina ina ref refiin niin ng g: : prod productio uction n of of spec specialt ialty y C Co ommon mmon s sh hare ares s 100 100 100 100 a allu umin mina: a: a allu umin minium ium s smelti melting: ng: e en ngine gineered ered product products s South South Africa Africa Richa Richar rds ds Ba Bay y Tita Titanium nium Pty Pty Ltd Ltd Tita Titanium nium dio diox xide ide high high purity purity iron iron p pr rod oductio uction n P Pr refer eferr re ed d Or Ordin dina ary ry Madag Madagascar ascar } } 37 37.7.
7 A A O Or rd din ina ar ry y QI QIT T M Ma ada dag ga as sc car ar Min Mine er ra als ls SA SA IIllmeni menite te mi minin ning g C Co ommon mmon s sh hare ares s 80 80 80 80 150 150,960, 960 B B O Or rdi dinary nary 51 51 Mong Mongolia olia A A P Pr refe efer ren ence ce Oy Oyu u Tol Tolg go oii LLC LLC Copper Copper and and gold gold mining mining iin n fide development velopment d d 32 32.34.
5 140 140,046, 046 B B P Pr refere eferen nc ce e 51 51 Mozambique Mozambique e e Ri Rich char ards ds Bay Bay M Miin niing ng P Pty ty Ltd Ltd IIllmeni menite, te, ru ruti tile le a an nd d zi zircon rcon mini mining ng P Pr refer eferr re ed d Or Ordin dina ary ry Riversdale Riversdale Mining Mining Limited Limited Coal Coal mining mining iin n dev deve elopment lopment and and e ex xplorat ploration ion C Co ommon mmon s sh hare ares s 100 100 100 100 36 36.3.
3 A A O Or rd din ina ar ry y } } Namibia Namibia 36 36,26, 260 0 B B O Or rdi dinary nary 49 49 f f Rssin Rssing g Ur Urani aniu um m L Liimi mite ted d U Ur ran aniu ium m mi minin ning g B B N$1 N$1 71 71.16.
59 } } 37 37 31 31,335, 335 B B P Pr refere eferen nc ce e 49 49 Papu Papua Ne a New G w Gu ui in ne ea a United United States States of of A Am merica erica g g Bouga Bougaiinville nville Coppe Copper r Lim Limiited ted Copper Copper and and gold gold mining mining Or Ordi dina nary ry 1 1 K Kiin na a 5 53 3.. 8 83 3 53 53.. 83 83 d d H Ha alco lco M Mini inin ng g In Inc. c. 4, 4,500 500 C Co ommon mmon 45 45 45 45 South South Africa Africa e e Pechine Pechiney y Reynolds Reynolds Quebec Quebec Inc Inc.. 100 100 C Co ommon mmon 50 50 } } 50 50.3.
3 Palabo Palabora ra M Miini ning ng C Co om mp pany any L Liim miited ted Copper Copper m miin niing ng, sm smeltin elting g a an nd d re refi fini ning ng O Or rd diin na ary ry R1 R1 72 72.90.
70 1 1 P Pref refe erre rred d 100 100 United United States States of of A Am merica erica The The Group Group has has joi join nt t control control of of the the a above bove op oper erations ations w wh hich ich are are indepen independ dent ent legal legal entities entities..
It It therefore therefore includ includes es the them m in in its its acc accounts ounts using using the the equity equity Kennecott Kennecott Hold Holdin ing gs s Corpor Corporatio ation n iinc ncllu udi ding ng Copper Copper and and gold gold m miini ning ng, sm smelt eltiing ng a an nd d ref refiini ning ng, C Co ommon mmon U US S$0.01 $0.01 100 100 100 100 Kennecott Kennecott Uta Utah h Co Copper, pper, Kennecott Kennecott land land development development and and explo explor rat ation ion act actiiv viities ties accounting accounting metho method d.. Land Land a an nd d Kenneco Kennecott tt Exploratio Exploration n The The Group Group co compri mprises ses a a large large numb numbe er r of of operati operations ons a an nd d it it is is not not prac practical tical to to include include all all of of the them m in in this this list.
The The list list ther therefor efore e only only includes includes th thos ose e jointly jointly U.
S.. Bora Borax x IIn nc c.. Mi Mini ning ng, ref refiin niin ng g a an nd d m mark arketin eting g of of bo bor rates ates C Co ommon mmon U US S$0.10 $0.10 100 100 100 100 controlle controlled d entities entities that that have have a a more more significant significant impac impact t on on the the pr profit ofit or or o op perating erating asset assets s of of the the Group.
The The G Gr roup oup com comp pri rises ses a a large large num number ber of of com comp panies anies a an nd d it it is is not not prac practical tical to to include include all all of of the them m in in this this list.
The The list list ther therefore efore only only includes includes th thos ose e The The Gro Group ups s principal principal jointly jointly cont control rolled led entities entities are are he held ld by by inter interm me ed diate iate hold holding ing co compani mpanie es s and and n not ot directl directly y by by Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc or or Rio Rio Tinto Tinto Limit Limite ed.
d. companies companies tha that t h have ave a a m mo ore re significant significant impact impact on on th the e profit profit or or as ass se ets ts of of the the Group.
With With the the exce exceptio ption n of of fo footn otnot ote e d d a an nd d e, e, all all jjo ointly intly c co ontrolle ntrolled d entitie entities s opera operat te e main mainly ly in in the the c co ountr untries ies in in w wh hich ich they they are are iinco ncor rporated.
The The Gro Group ups s principal principal subsidiaries subsidiaries a ar re e m mo ostly stly hel held d by by intermediat intermediate e hol hold ding ing compan companies ies an and d not not directly directly by by Rio Rio Tinto Tinto plc plc or or Ri Rio o T Tinto into Li Limite mited.
d. a a W Wh hile ile th the e Group Group holds holds more more tha than n a a 50 50 per per cen cent t int inte erest rest iin n thes these e en entitie tities s, o ot ther her par partici ticipan pants ts h ha av five e five veto to r riig gh hts ts o over ver o oper pera at tin ing g, fina financi ncin ng g and and stra strat te eg giic c decision decision maki makin ng.
g. A Ac cc cordin ordingly, gly, th the e Grou Group p does does n not ot a a Of Of th the e Groups Groups 80 80 per per c ce ent nt in interest terest iin n Coal Coal & & Allied Allied IIn ndustri dustries es Li Limite mited, d, an an iin ndirect direct share share of of 4.29 4.29 per per c ce en nt t, purch purcha ased sed d du uri ring ng 2011, 2011, is is h held eld throu throug gh h its its iin nvestm vestmen ent t in in a an n equity equity ac accoun counted ted uni unit.
t. h have ave t th he e abilit ability y t to o un unilatera ilaterally lly c co on nt trol, rol, and and t th heref erefore ore does does n no ot t c co on nsolidate solidate th these ese en ent tiit tiies.
b b Quee Queensland nsland Coal Coal Pty Pty Li Limited mited is is t th he e main main leg lega al l enti entity ty tha that t ow own ns s t th he e sh shares ares sh show own n iin n n no ot te e 38 38 o of f Hail Hail Creek, Creek, Blair Blair At Ath hol, ol, Cler Clermon mont t an and d Kest Kestrel.
b b The The y year ear e en nd d o of f Minera Minera Escondida Escondida Limit Limita ada da is is 3 30 0 Ju June.
Ho How wever, ever, the the a am mount ounts s iin nclud cluded ed iin n t th he e consolidat consolidated ed f fiina financial ncial stat stateme ements nts o of f Rio Rio Tin Tint to o ar are e based based on on accou accoun nts ts o of f M Miinera nera Escondid Escondida a Limi Limit tada ada tha that t are are c co ot te ermi rmin nou ous s w wiit th h those those of of th the e Grou Group.
p. c c This This e en nti tity ty is is iin nco cor rpo por rat ated ed in in t th he e U Un nite ited d Sta States tes of of America America bu but t op operates erates in in Cana Canada.
c c This This e en nti tity ty is is iin ncorporat corporated ed in in M Ma auriti uritiu us s bu but t op operates erates m ma ainly inly iin n M Mo ozam zambi bique, que, w wh here ere iit t has has a a 100 100 per per ce cent nt int inte erest rest iin n Rive Riversd rsdale ale M Mo ozambique zambique Lim Limitada, itada, a a coal coal mi mine ne loca locat ted ed in in Te Tete, te, M Mo ozambiq zambiqu ue e.. d d T Th he e Grou Group p h holds olds n no o direc direct t equ equiit ty y iin nt te erest rest in in O Oy yu u T Tolgoi olgoi LLC: LLC: th this is en ent tiit ty y iis s c con onsoli solidat dated ed by by vir virt tu ue e of of c co on nt tract ractu ua all righ right ts s wh whic ich h permit permit th the e exerc exerciise se of of c co on nt tr rol ol ov over er cert certain ain polic policiies es an and d act actiivit vitiies es of of O Oy yu u T Tolgoi olgoi LLC.
T Th he e Grou Group p iin nt te erest rest of of 32.
32.34 34 per per c ce ent nt arises arises t th hrou rough gh iit ts s 49 49 p pe er r cen cent t iin nvest vestmen ment t iin n Iv Ivanhoe anhoe M Miin ne es s Lt Ltd: d: Iva Ivan nh ho oe e M Miines fines ow own ns s 66 66 per per cen cent t of of O Oy yu u T Tolgoi olgoi LLC.
Ref Refe er r t to o n no ote te 39 39 f for or f fu ur rt ther her details details d d Halco Halco has has a a 51 51 per per cen cent t indirect indirect in interest terest in in Compag Compagnie nie d fide es s Ba Bauxit uxites es fide fide Guine, Guine, a a bauxi bauxite te mine, mine, t the he c core ore ass assets ets of of whi whic ch h are are loca locat ted ed iin n G Gu uinea inea.. relat relating ing t to o t th he e co consolidat nsolidation ion of of O Oy yu u Tolgoi Tolgoi LLC LLC f fr rom om 15 15 fide December cember 2010 2010.. e e Pechiney Pechiney Rey Reyn nolds olds Qu Que ebec bec has has a a 50.
50.1 1 p pe er r cent cent interest interest in in the the Alu Alum miner inerie ie fide fide Becan Becanc cou our r alumin aluminiiu um m smelter, smelter, w wh hich ich is is lo loc ca at te ed d in in Ca Canada.
e e This This e en nti tity ty is is iin ncorporat corporated ed in in Au Australia stralia bu but t oper operates ates iin n M Mo ozambi zambique.
f f T Th he e Grou Group ps s sh shareh areholdi oldin ng g in in R Rssin ssing g Uran Uraniu ium m Limit Limited ed c ca arries rries 35 35.. 5 54 4 per per c ce ent nt of of th the e t tot ota all vot votiin ng g righ right ts.
s. R Rssin ssing g is is c con onsolida solidat te ed d by by vir virt tu ue e of of board board c co ont ntrol.
g g The The resul result ts s of of Bougain Bougainvi ville lle Copper Copper Limited Limited are are n no ot t consoli consolidat date ed d.. S Se ee e not note e 44.
186 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 187 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 35 Principal subsidiaries and consolidated operations 36 Principal jointly controlled entities At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2011 Company and country of Class of Proportion of Group interest Company and country of Number of Class of Proportion of Group interest incorporation operation Principal activities shares held class held % % incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held class held % % Australia Australia a Argyle Diamond Limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 Boyne Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 a a Coal & Allied Industries Limited Coal mining Ordinary 80 80 Queensland Alumina Limited Alumina production 1,769,600 Ordinary 80 80 Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.40 68.40 Chile b Energy Resources of Australia Limited Uranium mining Class A 68.39 68.39 Minera Escondida Limitada Copper mining and refining 30 30 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 Mozambique b c Queensland Coal Pty Limited Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Rio Tinto Benga Mauritius Limited Coal mining in development 381,322,349 Ordinary 65 65 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited Bauxite mining: alumina production: primary Ordinary 100 100 1 Management aluminium smelting New Zealand Canada a New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 24,998,400 Ordinary 79.4 79.4 c Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc. Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Common shares 58.72 58.72 Norway QIT-Fer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock: high purity iron and steel Common shares 100 100 Sor-Norge Aluminium A. S. Aluminium smelting 500,000 Ordinary 50 50 Class B preference shares 100 100 Oman CAD 0.01 preferred shares 100 100 Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. Aluminium smelting power generation 37,500 Ordinary 20 20 Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining: alumina refining: production of specialty Common shares 100 100 alumina: aluminium smelting: engineered products South Africa Richards Bay Titanium Pty Ltd Titanium dioxide high purity iron production Preferred Ordinary Madagascar } 37.7 A Ordinary QIT Madagascar Minerals SA Ilmenite mining Common shares 80 80 150,960 B Ordinary 51 Mongolia A Preference Oyu Tolgoi LLC Copper and gold mining in development d 32.34 } 38.5 140,046 B Preference 51 Mozambique e Richards Bay Mining Pty Ltd Ilmenite, rutile and zircon mining Preferred Ordinary Riversdale Mining Limited Coal mining in development and exploration Common shares 100 100 36.3 A Ordinary } Namibia 36,260 B Ordinary 49 f Rssing Uranium Limited Uranium mining B N$1 71.16 } 68.58 A Preference C N10c 70.59 } 37 31,335 B Preference 49 Papua New Guinea United States of America g Bougainville Copper Limited Copper and gold mining Ordinary 1 Kina 53.83 53.83 d Halco Mining Inc. 4,500 Common 45 45 South Africa e Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. 100 Common 50 } 50.3 Palabora Mining Company Limited Copper mining, smelting and refining Ordinary R1 72.90 57.70 1 Preferred 100 United States of America The Group has joint control of the above operations which are independent legal entities.
It therefore includes them in its accounts using the equity Kennecott Holdings Corporation including Copper and gold mining, smelting and refining, Common US$0.01 100 100 Kennecott Utah Copper, Kennecott land development and exploration activities accounting method.
Land and Kennecott Exploration The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those jointly U. S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of borates Common US$0.10 100 100 controlled entities that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those The Groups principal jointly controlled entities are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
With the exception of footnote d and e, all jointly controlled entities operate mainly in the countries in which they are incorporated.
The Groups principal subsidiaries are mostly held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a While the Group holds more than a 50 per cent interest in these entities, other participants have veto rights over operating, financing and strategic decision making.
Accordingly, the Group does not a Of the Groups 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied Industries Limited, an indirect share of 4.29 per cent, purchased during 2011, is held through its investment in an equity accounted unit.
have the ability to unilaterally control, and therefore does not consolidate these entities.
b Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that owns the shares shown in note 38 of Hail Creek, Blair Athol, Clermont and Kestrel.
b The year end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June.
However, the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are based on accounts of Minera Escondida Limitada that are coterminous with those of the Group.
c This entity is incorporated in the United States of America but operates in Canada.
c This entity is incorporated in Mauritius but operates mainly in Mozambique, where it has a 100 per cent interest in Riversdale Mozambique Limitada, a coal mine located in Tete, Mozambique.
d The Group holds no direct equity interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC: this entity is consolidated by virtue of contractual rights which permit the exercise of control over certain policies and activities of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
The Group interest of 32.34 per cent arises through its 49 per cent investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd: Ivanhoe Mines owns 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
Refer to note 39 for further details d Halco has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
relating to the consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC from 15 December 2010. e Pechiney Reynolds Quebec has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie fide Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
e This entity is incorporated in Australia but operates in Mozambique.
f The Groups shareholding in Rssing Uranium Limited carries 35.54 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rssing is consolidated by virtue of board control.
g The results of Bougainville Copper Limited are not consolidated.
com 187 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 37 Principal associates 38 Principal jointly controlled assets and other proportionally consolidated units At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2011 Company and country of Name and country of operation Principal activities Group interest % Number of Class of Proportion of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held class held % Group interest % Australia Brazil Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 a a Minerao Rio do Norte SA Bauxite mining 25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 Bengalla Coal mining 32 } 12 b 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 Blair Athol Coal Coal mining 71.2 Cameroon Clermont Coal Coal mining 50.1 Compagnie Camerounaise fide lAluminum Aluminium smelting 1,623,127 Ordinary 46.7 46.7 Hail Creek Coal mining 82 Canada Kestrel Coal mining 80 b c Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Copper and gold mining 361,858,442 Common 49 49 Mount Thorley Coal mining 64 Warkworth Coal mining 42.1 The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
Northparkes Mine Copper gold mining and processing 80 The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 d associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
Robe River Iron Associates Iron ore mining 53 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 With the exception of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd, the core assets of which are located in Mongolia, all associates operate mainly in the countries in which they Brazil are incorporated.
Consrcio fide Alumnio Maranho Alumina production 10 a Minerao Rio do Norte SA is accounted for as an associated company because the Group has significant influence through representation on its Board of Directors.
b Ivanhoe Mines Ltd own 66% of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which the Group consolidates refer to note 35.
The Group only equity accounts for its interest in the net assets of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. Canada that does not relate to Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
Refer to note 39 for further details of additions to the Groups investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. during 2010 and 2011.
Alouette Aluminium production 40 Diavik Mining and processing of diamonds 60 Indonesia Grasberg expansion Copper and gold mining 40 The Group comprises a large number of operations, and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those proportionally consolidated units that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups proportionally consolidated units are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a The Group owns a 40 per cent interest in Bengalla through its 80 per cent investment in Coal and Allied, giving a beneficial interest to the Group of 32 per cent.
b The Group has a direct interest of 57.2 per cent in Blair Athol Coal, and an additional 14 per cent interest through its investment in an equity accounted unit.
c The Group owns an 80 per cent interest in Mount Thorley through its 80 per cent investment in Coal and Allied, giving a beneficial interest to the Group of 64 per cent.
d The Group holds 65 per cent of Robe River Iron Associates, of which 30 per cent is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary.
The Groups net beneficial interest is, therefore, 53 per cent, net of amounts attributable to outside equity shareholders.
188 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 37 Principal associates 38 Principal jointly controlled assets and other proportionally consolidated units At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2011 Company and country of Name and country of operation Principal activities Group interest % Number of Class of Proportion of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held class held % Group interest % Australia Brazil Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 a a Minerao Rio do Norte SA Bauxite mining 25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 Bengalla Coal mining 32 } 12 b 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 Blair Athol Coal Coal mining 71.2 Cameroon Clermont Coal Coal mining 50.1 Compagnie Camerounaise fide lAluminum Aluminium smelting 1,623,127 Ordinary 46.7 46.7 Hail Creek Coal mining 82 Canada Kestrel Coal mining 80 b c Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Copper and gold mining 361,858,442 Common 49 49 Mount Thorley Coal mining 64 Warkworth Coal mining 42.1 The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
com 189 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Goodwill arising on acquisition comprises US$150 million, being Rio Tintos 88 per cent share of the amount calculated in accordance with IFRS to 39 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities with their tax base.
in businesses The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Hathor at the acquisition date were provisionally estimated as follows: Provisional 2011 Acquisitions fair value Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique formerly Riversdale Mining Limited US$m As at 30 November 2011 of which 88 per cent attributable to owners of Rio Tinto After the opening of Rio Tintos bid for Riversdale Mining Limited Riversdale on 11 January 2011, Rio Tinto cumulatively increased its interests Intangible assets 628 in the issued share capital of Riversdale, culminating in the acquisition of a controlling 52.6 per cent interest on 8 April 2011 the acquisition date.
Cash 30 The cumulative consideration paid to reach the controlling percentage was US$2,191 million, all of which was cash.
Subsequent to the acquisition date, Other assets and liabilities 1 Rio Tinto continued to increase its interest in Riversdale and on 1 August 2011, its interest increased to 100 per cent: consideration paid for the remaining 47.4 per cent was US$1,977 million.
Riversdale was delisted on 7 July 2011 and subsequently renamed Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM.
Deferred tax liabilities 184 Due to the mutual proximity of the dates of individual increases in Rio Tintos shareholding prior to the acquisition date, the transactions have been Non-controlling interests 57 accounted for as an acquisition taking place in only two stages, first the acquisition of a controlling interest on 8 April 2011, and secondly the purchase Goodwill 150 of additional interests after the acquisition date.
Net attributable assets including goodwill at the acquisition date 566 RTCM owns and operates a number of exploration and early development stage projects, specialising in coal opportunities in southern Africa.
Its principal interests are the Benga project, a 65:35 joint venture with Tata Steel Limited, which is equity accounted, and the wholly owned Zambeze coal Consideration: project.
These projects are located contiguously in the Tete and Moatize provinces of Mozambique.
Riversdale also has several prospective exploration Cash consideration 550 tenements in the region.
Less: cash acquired on acquisition 30 The acquisition is in line with Rio Tintos growth strategy of investing in, developing, and operating, large, long term, cost-competitive mines, and Included within acquisitions of subsidiaries per the cash flow statement 520 provides Rio Tinto with one of the worlds most promising tier one coking coal developments.
Gain recognised on previously held interest of 5.8% 16 Fair values recognised on acquisition are provisional and will be subject to further review during the 12 months from the acquisition date.
Total 536 Goodwill arising on acquisition comprises US$530 million, being Rio Tintos 52.6 per cent share at the acquisition date, of the amount calculated in For the period since acquisition, there was no impact on the consolidated income statement.
Had Hathor been consolidated from 1 January 2011, accordance with IFRS to recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities the consolidated income statement would have reduced by US$73 million, to show profit after tax from continuing operations of US$6,702 million.
Consolidated sales revenue would have been unaffected.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Riversdale Mining Limited at the acquisition date were provisionally estimated as follows: Ivanhoe Mines Ltd During the year and in January 2012, Rio Tinto increased its ownership of shares in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Ivanhoe as follows: Provisional fair value Ownership after transaction US$m As at 8 April 2011 of which 52.6 per cent attributable to owners of Rio Tinto Shares Aggregate Intangible assets 1,797 acquired Price per consideration Shares Investments in Equity Accounted Units 1,802 Date Description million Share C$ US$ million million % Cash 478 2 February 2011 Rights offering 34.4 13.93 477 263.6 40.3 Other assets and liabilities 91 3 February 2011 Share purchase 10.0 US$ 25.34 253 273.6 41.9 Deferred tax liabilities 1,009 3 February 2011 Share rights purchase 1.5 13.93 21 275.1 42.1 Non-controlling interests 1,498 21 June 2011 Warrant exercise 55.2 US$9.10 502 330.3 46.5 Goodwill 530 24 August 2011 Exercise of rights to subscribe 27.9 18.98 536 358.2 48.5 Net attributable assets including goodwill at the acquisition date 2,191 27 September 2011 Share purchase agreement 3.7 19.75 71 361.9 49.0 As at 31 December 132.7 1,860 Cash consideration to acquire 52.6 per cent interest 2,191 17 January 2012 Exercise of rights to subscribe 0.4 19.66 9 362.3 49.0 Less: cash acquired on acquisition 478 24 January 2012 Share purchase 15.1 20.00 299 377.4 51.0 Included within acquisitions of subsidiaries per the cash flow statement 1,713 Total 148.2 2,168 Included within purchase of non-controlling interests per the cash flow statement purchase of 47.4 per cent interest 1,977 2010 Acquisitions Total cash outflow per the cash flow statement 3,690 Consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi restated On 15 December 2010, Rio Tinto consolidated provisional fair values relating to Oyu Tolgoi LLC Oyu Tolgoi, following the signing of a new agreement Non-controlling interests were recognised at their proportionate share of the provisional fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities at the with Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Ivanhoe, under which Rio Tinto obtained contractual control over certain policies and activities of Oyu Tolgoi.
No direct equity acquisition date.
interest was acquired under the agreement and the existing equity arrangements were not changed as a result of the agreement.
Oyu Tolgoi LLC is owned 66 per cent by Ivanhoe and 34 per cent by the Government of Mongolia.
The signing of the agreement did not affect the Government of For the period since acquisition, losses after tax of US$63 million are included in the consolidated income statement: there was no impact on consolidated sales Mongolias economic interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
Had Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique been consolidated from 1 January 2011, the consolidated income statement would have reduced by US$119 million to show profit after tax from continuing operations of US$6,656 milliion.
Provisional fair values on consolidation were determined for Oyu Tolgoi at 31 December 2010.
The fair values continued to be reviewed and were finalised by 15 December 2011, 12 months after the effective date of the agreement with Ivanhoe.
During the course of the year ended 31 December Cash flows relating to the Groups purchase of its interest in Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique are allocated between investing and financing activities in 2011, certain reallocations between balance sheet categories were identified as additional information became available.
An amount of US$1,087 million accordance with the presentation requirements for staged acquisitions under IAS 7 Cash flow statements.
In the interim Financial Statements for was reclassified to loans and borrowings, with corresponding adjustments of US$676 million to non-controlling interests and US$352 million to the six months ended 30 June 2011, all cash flows relating to the purchase of interests in Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique were included within investing Investments in Equity Accounted Units.
Comparative figures for the six months ended 30 June 2012 will be revised accordingly.
The restatement arising from reallocation between balance sheet categories at 31 December 2010 resulted in an increase to Goodwill of US$20 million Hathor Exploration Limited and a reduction of US$86 million to both the non-cash gain on consolidation recognised in the income statement, and to equity attributable to owners During 2011, between April and October, Rio Tinto built up a 5.8 per cent interest in Hathor Exploration Limited Hathor, a uranium exploration of Rio Tinto.
Fair values have not been restated other than for the impact of the reallocation.
The reallocation did not result in an impairment.
company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
In October, an all cash offer was made for the remaining shares.
On 30 November 2011 the conditions of the offer were satisfied and Rio Tinto acquired a controlling interest of 70.2 per cent of Hathor.
By 31 December 2011 ownership had reached 88.0 per cent: by 12 January 2012 the remaining 12.0 per cent was acquired and Hathor has since been delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Due to the mutual proximity of the dates of individual increases in Rio Tintos shareholding subsequent to the acquisition date, and before the end of the year, these transactions have been accounted for as taking place in one stage, at 30 November, resulting in an ownership interest of 88 per cent being recognised at the acquisition date.
Fair values recognised on acquisition are provisional and will be subject to further review during the 12 months from the acquisition date.
190 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Goodwill arising on acquisition comprises US$150 million, being Rio Tintos 88 per cent share of the amount calculated in accordance with IFRS to 39 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities with their tax base.
in businesses The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Hathor at the acquisition date were provisionally estimated as follows: 2011 Acquisitions Provisional fair value Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique formerly Riversdale Mining Limited As at 30 November 2011 of which 88 per cent attributable to owners of Rio Tinto US$m After the opening of Rio Tintos bid for Riversdale Mining Limited Riversdale on 11 January 2011, Rio Tinto cumulatively increased its interests Intangible assets 628 in the issued share capital of Riversdale, culminating in the acquisition of a controlling 52.6 per cent interest on 8 April 2011 the acquisition date.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Riversdale Mining Limited at the acquisition date were provisionally estimated as follows: Ivanhoe Mines Ltd During the year and in January 2012, Rio Tinto increased its ownership of shares in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Ivanhoe as follows: Provisional fair value Ownership after transaction As at 8 April 2011 of which 52.6 per cent attributable to owners of Rio Tinto US$m Shares Aggregate Intangible assets 1,797 acquired Price per consideration Shares Investments in Equity Accounted Units 1,802 Date Description million Share C$ US$ million million % Cash 478 2 February 2011 Rights offering 34.4 13.93 477 263.6 40.3 Other assets and liabilities 91 3 February 2011 Share purchase 10.0 US$25.34 253 273.6 41.9 Deferred tax liabilities 1,009 3 February 2011 Share rights purchase 1.5 13.93 21 275.1 42.1 Non-controlling interests 1,498 21 June 2011 Warrant exercise 55.2 US$9.10 502 330.3 46.5 Goodwill 530 24 August 2011 Exercise of rights to subscribe 27.9 18.98 536 358.2 48.5 Net attributable assets including goodwill at the acquisition date 2,191 27 September 2011 Share purchase agreement 3.7 19.75 71 361.9 49.0 As at 31 December 132.7 1,860 Cash consideration to acquire 52.6 per cent interest 2,191 17 January 2012 Exercise of rights to subscribe 0.4 19.66 9 362.3 49.0 Less: cash acquired on acquisition 478 24 January 2012 Share purchase 15.1 20.00 299 377.4 51.0 Included within acquisitions of subsidiaries per the cash flow statement 1,713 Total 148.2 2,168 Included within purchase of non-controlling interests per the cash flow statement purchase of 47.4 per cent interest 1,977 2010 Acquisitions Total cash outflow per the cash flow statement Consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi restated 3,690 On 15 December 2010, Rio Tinto consolidated provisional fair values relating to Oyu Tolgoi LLC Oyu Tolgoi, following the signing of a new agreement Non-controlling interests were recognised at their proportionate share of the provisional fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities at the with Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Ivanhoe, under which Rio Tinto obtained contractual control over certain policies and activities of Oyu Tolgoi.
indd 191 06 03 2012 16:35 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued As part of the Settlement Agreement, GoG has the following options to take up to a 35 per cent interest in the mining portion of the Simandou project 39 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests ie in Simfer : in businesses continued From the grant of the Presidential Decrees: 7.5 per cent non-contributing stake at no cost and 10 per cent fully contributing stake at historic cost: Ivanhoe Mines Ltd In addition to the agreement described above, during the year ended 31 December 2010 Rio Tinto also entered into the transactions described below, Five years from the grant of the Presidential Decrees: a further 7.5 per cent non-contributing stake at no cost: in relation to its investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Ivanhoe.
15 years from the grant of the Presidential Decrees: 5 per cent fully contributing stake at market value: and Ownership after transaction 20 years from the grant of the Presidential Decrees: 5 per cent fully contributing stake at market value.
Shares Aggregate acquired Price per consideration Shares In addition, the Settlement Agreement provides for joint ownership of railway and port infrastructure, with GoG entitled to take a 51 per cent interest Date Description million Share C$ US$ million million % in a newly formed Infrastructure SPV InfraCo that will hold the rail and port assets.
The other Simfer participants will take up an interest in the 1 March 2010 Share purchase 15.0 16.31 241 98.6 22.4 remaining portion of InfraCo equity in proportion to their relative interests in Simfer.
The Settlement Agreement stipulates that participants in InfraCo 30 June 2010 Warrant exercise 46.1 US$8.54 393 144.7 29.6 will be required to fully fund their proportion of InfraCos capital cost or be subject to dilution.
13 September 2010 Debt facility conversion 40.1 US$10.00 a 184.8 34.9 InfraCo will appoint Simfer or an affiliate of Simfers within the Rio Tinto Group as its operator the Operator.
The rail line will be available for 13 September 2010 Anti-dilution warrants 0.6 3.15 2 185.4 34.9 passenger and freight trains and the operator may haul other mineral producers ore subject to commercial agreement.
Simfer will have the status 15 December 2010 Series B warrants partial 33.8 US$8.88 300 219.2 38.6 of a foundation customer, and will therefore retain priority use of the infrastructure.
15 December 2010 Share purchase from Robert Friedland 10.0 b 253 229.2 40.3 The infrastructure will revert to GoG ownership after 25 to 30 years.
Simfer will retain its status as a foundation customer.
On transfer of the project Total 145.6 1,189 infrastructure to GoG, GoG will put the management of InfraCo to international tender.
Simfer will be one of the parties invited to tender.
Any user a On 13 September 2010, Rio Tinto increased its ownership to 34.9 per cent following automatic conversion of the US$350 million convertible debt facility Rio Tinto made available to Ivanhoe in 2007, access charges to Simfer will reflect its status as a foundation customer.
which was fully drawn down by mid 2008.
The outstanding principal and accrued interest US$401 million under the credit facility automatically converted on maturity into common shares at a price of US$10 per share.
Certain provisions of the Settlement Agreement, including the GoG participation regime changes, require amendment to Simfers current mining b The Robert Friedland share purchase has a price equal to the simple average of the closing price of Ivanhoe shares in the NYSE on the 20 days preceding 8 December 2010. convention Mining Convention, which requires ratification by the Guinean National Assembly or by Transitional Council until the Guinean National Assembly is duly constituted in order for these provisions to have full effect.
This is expected to take place in the first six months of 2012.
2009 Acquisitions On 28 October 2009, Rio Tinto completed the second tranche of its private placement investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd, increasing its ownership Both prior to and post participation by Chalco and GoG, Rio Tinto will retain control of Simfer and, therefore, the mining portion of the Simandou project.
by 9.8 per cent to 19.7 per cent of Ivanhoes common shares.
The second tranche consisted of 46,304,473 common shares at a subscription price As such, Rio Tinto will continue to account for its interest in Simfer as a subsidiary.
Contributions to funding made by Chalco to acquire its interest in of US$8.38 per share for a total consideration of US$388 million.
the Chalco JV will be credited to equity.
The effect on the Group of the options granted to GoG will be recognised upon ratification by the Guinean National Assembly or Transitional Council of the amendments to the Mining Convention discussed above.
There were no other significant acquisitions for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Settlement Sum is shown as a non-current prepayment for an intangible asset in the Groups statement of financial position at 31 December 2011 and as the purchase of an intangible asset in the Groups cash flow.
2011 Disposals Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products The eventual basis of consolidation of InfraCo is unknown pending finalisation of the detailed infrastructure agreements.
On 4 January 2011, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of 61 per cent of Alcan Engineered Products AEP to certain investment funds affiliated Management, LLC Apollo and the Fonds Strategique dInvestissement FSI.
The terms of the transaction are confidential.
AEP with Apollo Global 2010 Disposals was rebranded as Constellium on 3 May 2011.
Rio Tinto completed the sale of Alcan Packaging global pharmaceuticals, global tobacco, food Europe and food Asia divisions to Amcor for a total Apollo is now the majority shareholder in Constellium formerly AEP with a 51 per cent stake in a new holding company for AEP, with the FSI holding consideration of US$1,948 million on 1 February 2010.
The consideration was adjusted to exclude Medical Flexibles operations and to reflect actual 10 per cent.
Rio Tinto holds a 39 per cent stake and accounts for its interest in Constellium as an equity accounted unit.
business performance over the six months preceding completion.
Divestment of the Talc business Rio Tintos subsidiary, Coal & Allied, which was 75.7% owned in 2010 sold the Maules Creek project to Aston Resources, a private Australian company, On 1 August 2011, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its talc business to Imerys for gross consideration based on an enterprise value of for A$480 million US$427 million.
The sale was completed on 18 February 2010.
Coal & Allieds Vickery asset was sold to Whitehaven Coal ASX listed $340 million before any deductions or tax.
for A$31.5 million US$28 million, with an effective date of 4 February 2010.
Proposed Chalco Joint Venture and Settlement Agreement with Government of Guinea for the Simandou Iron Ore Project The sale of the Alcan Packaging Food Americas division to Bemis Company Inc. for a total consideration of US$1.2 billion was completed on Under the terms of a binding agreement with Chalco signed on 29 July 2010, Rio Tintos 95 per cent interest in Simfer S. A. Simfer, the entity which 1 March 2010. currently undertakes the various aspects of the Simandou project, will be held in a newly-formed Joint Venture for the development and operation of the On 5 July 2010, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of the remainder of its Alcan Packaging business with the closing of the sale of the Medical Simandou iron ore project Chalco JV, through its subsidiary Simfer Jersey.
Chalco will acquire a 47 per cent interest in Simfer Jersey and, therefore, Flexibles business acquired by Amcor for US$66 million and of the sale of the Alcan Beauty Packaging business acquired by Sun European Partners LLP an effective interest in Simfer and the Simandou project by providing US$1.35 billion on an earn-in basis through sole funding of ongoing development for an undisclosed sum.
works and historical development expenditure incurred since March 2010.
Once Chalco has paid its US$1.35 billion and prior to the Government of Guinea GoG taking up any portion of its interests see below, the effective 2009 Disposals interests of Rio Tinto and Chalco in the Simandou project will be 50.35 per cent and 44.65 per cent respectively: with the International Finance On 1 December 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Alcan Composites, part of Alcan Engineered Products, to Schweiter Technologies for a total Corporation IFC, the financing arm of the World Bank, holding the remaining 5 per cent.
The formation of the Chalco JV remains subject to the satisfaction of certain regulatory requirements.
On 20 November 2009, Rio Tinto received US$741 million in connection with Cloud Peak Energy Incs initial public offering IPO and related transactions, comprising US$434 million net proceeds from the sale of part of Rio Tintos interest in Cloud Peak Energy Resources LLC CPER, in Chinalco and Rio Tinto have entered into an agreement under which Chinalco guarantees the performance of Chalcos obligations under the binding connection with Cloud Peak Energy Incs IPO of common stock, and a cash distribution by CPER of US$307 million from the proceeds of its debt offering agreement.
An additional US$7 million was received as part of a working capital adjustment at 31 December 2009.
Rio Tinto retained an interest On 22 April 2011, Rio Tinto signed the Settlement Agreement with GoG relating to the southern concession of the Simandou project, known as blocks in CPER of 48 per cent, which was treated as an equity accounted unit EAU until its disposal on 21 December 2010.
3 and 4, which is the location of Rio Tintos declared iron ore resources in Guinea.
In recognition of this and of the resolution of all other outstanding US$660 million of sales proceeds arose from these transactions and US$151 million was received as dividends from an EAU.
The sales proceeds issues and the finalisation of new investment agreement terms, Simfer paid US$700 million the Settlement Sum to the Guinean Public Treasury comprised the gross IPO proceeds of US$459 million, 52 per cent of the cash distribution by CPER representing the percentage not retained by the upon promulgation of Guinean Presidential Decrees granting Simfer a mining concession and approving the proposed Chalco JV.
The Presidential Group and US$38 million of deferred consideration.
Decrees were promulgated on 22 April 2011.
On 1 October 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its Jacobs Ranch coal mine to Arch Coal Inc. for a final cash consideration of US$764 million.
Under the Settlement Agreement, there will be an income tax holiday of eight years from the first taxable profit, followed by a general tax rate of 30 per cent.
Royalties will be payable at 3.5 per cent Free on Board FOB for all exported ore. Simfer will also be exempt from withholding tax on On 18 September 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its Corumb iron ore mine and associated river logistics operations to Vale SA for a cash dividends.
All imported goods used for construction and maintenance will be exempt from VAT and Customs duty.
On 26 January 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50 percent equity share of the Alcan Ningxia aluminium joint venture in China to Qingtongxia Aluminium Group Co Ltd QTX for gross cash consideration of US$125 million.
192 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued As part of the Settlement Agreement, GoG has the following options to take up to a 35 per cent interest in the mining portion of the Simandou project 39 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests ie in Simfer : in businesses continued From the grant of the Presidential Decrees: 7.5 per cent non-contributing stake at no cost and 10 per cent fully contributing stake at historic cost: Ivanhoe Mines Ltd In addition to the agreement described above, during the year ended 31 December 2010 Rio Tinto also entered into the transactions described below, Five years from the grant of the Presidential Decrees: a further 7.5 per cent non-contributing stake at no cost: in relation to its investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Ivanhoe.
com 193 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 39 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests 40 Directors and key management remuneration Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: in businesses continued The aggregated carrying value of the Groups share of the major classes of assets and liabilities at the dates of sale were: 2011 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 2009 Emoluments 10,145 11,384 18,021 US$m Long term incentive plans 3,215 3,334 3,092 Goodwill 184 13,360 14,718 21,113 Intangible assets 169 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 61 54 389 Property, plant & equipment 2,021 Gains made on exercise of share options 17,265 20 Investments in equity accounted units 11 Inventories 288 The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and members of the Executive committee.
The Executive committee comprises the Other financial assets 251 executive directors, product group chief executive officers PGCEOs and Group executives.
Borrowings 12 The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its directors was US$9,059,000 2010: US$10,510,000: 2009: US$17,784,000.
Deferred tax liabilities 82 The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was nil 2010: nil: 2009: US$342,000.
The aggregate remuneration, including Provisions 796 pension contributions and other retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its directors was US$4,362,000 2010: US$4,262,000: Outside equity shareholders 1 2009: US$3,718,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$61,000 2010: US$54,000: 2009: US$47,000.
Net assets 2,033 During 2011, three directors 2010: three: 2009: three accrued retirement benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and one director 2010: one: 2009: two accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution arrangements.
Add: Divestment of investment in associate 80 Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local currency at the average rate for the year with the exception of bonus Less: Retained investment in associates 359 payments which, together with amounts payable under long term incentive plans, have been translated at the year end rate.
Less: Recycled gains and losses and movements in other comprehensive income 18 Net assets and investments in associates disposed of 1,736 Detailed information concerning directors remuneration, shareholdings and options is shown in the Remuneration report, including Tables 1 to 5, on pages 106 to 117 of the 2011 Annual report.
Consideration Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under EU IFRS, of the Groups key management, including directors, was as follows: a Cash proceeds net of transactions costs 2,424 2011 2010 2009 Deferred consideration 46 US$000 US$000 US$000 Accrued disposal costs 42 Short term employee benefits and costs 25,122 28,487 35,881 Net consideration 2,428 Post employment benefits 4,542 3,984 3,692 Gain on disposal 692 Termination benefits 1,357 Share-based payments 28,190 20,822 34,476 Net cash inflow from disposals 2,424 57,854 53,293 75,406 Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 396 The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise social security and accident premiums in the UK and US and payroll taxes in Cash flow from disposals acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 2,028 Australia paid by the employer as a direct additional cost of hire.
In total, they amount to US$2,010,000 2010: US$2,020,000: 2009: US$2,269,000 a Cash proceeds were stated net of US$20 million cash and cash equivalents transferred on sale of subsidiaries.
and although disclosed here, are not included in Table 1 of the Remuneration report.
In 2005, prior to being appointed a member of key management personnel, Mr. Andrew Harding relocated to the United States.
As an expatriate in the US, Mr. Harding was unable to access car leasing arrangements and so was loaned a sum of US$30,000 by the Group for the purposes of purchasing a car.
The loan repayable over 60 months attracted interest of US$3,235 during the term of the loan.
The balance as at 1 January 2010 was US$4,531 and the loan was repaid in full on 21 December 2010.
More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key management is shown in the Remuneration report, including Tables 1 to 5 on pages 106 to 117 of the 2011 Annual report.
194 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 39 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests 40 Directors and key management remuneration Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: in businesses continued The aggregated carrying value of the Groups share of the major classes of assets and liabilities at the dates of sale were: 2011 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 2009 Emoluments 10,145 11,384 18,021 US$m Long term incentive plans 3,215 3,334 3,092 Goodwill 184 13,360 14,718 21,113 Intangible assets 169 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 61 54 389 Property, plant & equipment 2,021 Gains made on exercise of share options 17,265 20 Investments in equity accounted units 11 Inventories 288 The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and members of the Executive committee.
com 195 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 41 Auditors remuneration 42 Related party transactions 2011 2010 2009 Information about material related party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: US$m US$m US$m a Group Auditors remuneration Subsidiary companies and proportionally consolidated units Audit of the Company 2.8 2.7 2.1 Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 35.
Information relating to proportionally consolidated units can be found Audit of the subsidiaries 11.6 13.0 20.0 in note 38.
14.4 15.7 22.1 Equity accounted units Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Purchases relate largely to amounts charged by jointly controlled Audit related assurance services 1.1 1.0 1.1 b entities for toll processing of bauxite and alumina.
Sales relate largely to charges for supply of coal to jointly controlled marketing entities for onward Other assurance services 3.3 9.9 22.0 sale to third party customers.
Total assurance services 4.4 10.9 23.1 2011 2010 2009 c Income statement items US$m US$m US$m Tax compliance 0.3 0.1 0.3 c Tax advisory services 1.2 0.4 2.1 Purchases from equity accounted units 4,211 3,009 2,558 Services related to corporate finance transactions not covered above Sales to equity accounted units 4,079 3,038 2,088 Services in connection with bond issues capital raising 0.5 0.3 4.2 Services in connection with divestment programme 2.0 5.0 8.4 Cash flow statement items US$m US$m US$m Other non-audit services not covered above 1.1 0.9 1.9 Total other services 5.1 6.7 16.9 Cash movement on EAU funded balances note 25 1,683 Net funding of equity accounted units 745 154 265 23.9 33.3 62.1 d Remuneration payable to other accounting firms Statement of financial position items US$m US$m a Audit of the accounts of the Groups subsidiaries 2.6 2.6 0.5 Investments in equity accounted units note 15 9,833 6,855 Loans to equity accounted units 589 337 c Taxation services 12.0 6.6 9.1 Loans from equity accounted units 3,472 278 Financial systems design and implementation 0.8 Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units note 18 1,374 1,341 Internal audit 10.5 6.5 8.4 Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units note 26 589 727 Litigation services 0.3 0.4 0.1 a Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 36 and 37. e Other services 30.4 15.9 12.2 Pension funds 56.6 32.0 30.3 Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 47.
Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.1 0.1 56.7 32.0 30.4 Directors and key management 80.6 65.3 92.5 Details of directors and key management remuneration are set out in note 40 and in the Remuneration report on pages 86 to 118.
The Group has early adopted the statutory changes in relation to the Group auditors remuneration in line with the UK Companies Regulations 2011 Statutory Instrument 2011 2198 for the year ended 2011.
2010 and 2009 fees have been reclassified accordingly.
43 Exchange rates in US$ a The remuneration payable to , the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit committee.
The Audit committee sets the policy for the award of non audit work to the auditors The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of the 2011 financial statements are: and approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained.
The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to  by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the payments made by proportionally consolidated units.
Non-audit services arise largely Annual average Year end from assurance and or regulation related work.
2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 b Other assurance services are mainly related to carve-out financial statements, sustainability assurance and limited assurance over the Taxes paid in 2010 report.
c Taxation services includes tax compliance and advisory services.
Tax compliance involves the preparation or review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes.
Tax advisory services Sterling 1.60 1.55 1.57 1.54 1.55 1.61 includes advice on non recurring acquisitions and disposals, advice on transfer pricing and advice on employee global mobility.
Australian dollar 1.03 0.92 0.79 1.01 1.02 0.89 d Remuneration payable to other accounting firms does not include fees for similar services payable to suppliers of consultancy services other than accountancy firms.
Canadian dollar 1.01 0.97 0.88 0.98 1.00 0.95 e Other services in 2011, 2010 and 2009 in respect of other accounting firms includes costs relating to capital raising, divestments and similar corporate services, advice on mine expansion and infrastructure projects, pension fund and payroll administration, advice on accounting matters, secondments of accounting firms staff, forensic audit and other consultancy.
South African rand 0.14 0.14 0.12 0.12 0.15 0.14 Euro 1.39 1.33 1.39 1.30 1.33 1.44 44 Bougainville Copper Limited BCL Mining has been suspended at the Panguna mine since 1989.
Safe mine access by company employees has not been possible since that time and an accurate assessment of the condition of the assets cannot therefore be made.
Considerable funding would be required to recommence operations to the level which applied at the time of the mines closure in 1989.
An Order of Magnitude study undertaken in 2008 indicates that costs in a range of US$2 billion to US$4 billion would be required to re-open the mine assuming all site infrastructure is replaced.
The directors consider that the Group does not currently realise a benefit from its interest in BCL and therefore BCL information continues to be excluded from the financial statements.
BCL reported a net loss of US$2 million for the financial year 2010: net profit of US$1 million.
This is based upon actual transactions for the financial year.
The aggregate amount of capital and reserves reported by BCL as at 31 December 2011 was US$139 million 2010: US$142 million.
The Group owns 215,920,089 shares in BCL, representing 53.8 per cent of the issued share capital.
The investment of US$195 million was fully provided against in 1991.
At 31 December 2011, the number of shares in BCL held by the Group, multiplied by the share price as quoted in the Australian Securities Exchange, resulted in an amount of US$164 million 2010: US$354 million.
196 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 41 Auditors remuneration 42 Related party transactions 2011 2010 2009 Information about material related party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: US$m US$m US$m a Group Auditors remuneration Subsidiary companies and proportionally consolidated units Audit of the Company 2.8 2.7 2.1 Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 35.
com 197 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Performance Share Plan formally the Mining Companies Comparative Plan 45 Events after the statement of financial position date Prior to 2010, the Remuneration Committee gave the Plans participants the option to receive their awards in cash or as shares.
This option resulted Ivanhoe Mines Ltd in the Plan being classified as a cash-settled share-based payment transaction and it was accounted for accordingly.
On 24 January 2012, Rio Tinto took a majority stake in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Ivanhoe, purchasing shares that took its interest to 51 per cent from 49 per cent at 31 December 2011.
The Group had previously gained control of Oyu Tolgoi LLC OT, in which Ivanhoe holds a 66 per cent interest, on 15 In 2010 the Groups policy for settling these awards changed.
Since 2010, participants have been assigned shares in settlement of their awards with December 2010 and it has consolidated OT since that date.
The Group will consolidate the remainder of Ivanhoe the non OT assets from the date of no option to receive a direct cash alternative.
As a result of this, and with effect from 1 July 2010, the Plan has been accounted for in accordance with acquisition of control, reflecting 100 per cent of the assets and liabilities in the relevant lines in the statement of financial position and the proportion of the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Ivanhoe and its non OT subsidiaries, not owned by the Group, will be shown as non-controlling interests.
The change in settlement policy has been accounted for under IFRS 2 as a modification.
Accordingly, the fair values of the awards granted prior to this Non OT assets will be ascribed provisional fair values as at the date of acquisition of control subject to finalisation within 12 months.
Any excess or change were re-measured at 1 July 2010 and from that date treated as equity-settled awards.
The incremental fair value as a result of this modification shortfall of the fair value of the 49 per cent interest in non OT assets the Group held before this transaction, against the carrying value of that interest, was nil.
This re-measurement was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair value of awards granted after July 2010 are measured at will be taken to the income statement.
Any excess or shortfall of the consideration paid for the additional two per cent interest in Ivanhoe, over the resulting reduction in the non-controlling For the purpose of the disclosures below, the grant date fair values of the awards made prior to 2008 were calculated as the market value of the shares interest in OT and the incremental fair value of the non OT assets acquired, will be charged or credited to equity.
Deferred tax will be provided on any at the date of award reduced by 50 per cent for anticipated relative TSR performance.
The grant date fair value of the awards made since 2008 were excess of the fair value attributed to assets acquired over the tax basis of those assets, with a consequential increase in goodwill.
calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
In each case fair values were adjusted for non receipt of dividends between measurement date and date of vesting excluding awards for executive directors and product group CEOs.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum Richards Bay Minerals of outstanding awards except for the 2009 awards which applied to senior executives only with no allowance for forfeitures.
On 1 February 2012 Rio Tinto announced that it will increase its stake in Richards Bay Minerals RBM to 74 per cent through the acquisition of BHP Billitons 37 per cent interest.
The acquisition has been triggered by BHP Billitons decision to exercise a put option agreed between Rio Tinto and Management Share Plan BHP Billiton as part of RBMs restructuring in 2009.
The final consideration for the acquisition will be determined through a previously agreed valuation The Management Share Plan was introduced during 2007 to provide conditional share-based awards to management.
The vesting of these awards process.
Completion is subject to regulatory approvals.
is dependent on service and or performance based conditions being met.
The awards will be settled in equity including the dividends accumulated Rio Tinto currently treats its interest in RBM as an equity accounted unit, as it is a jointly controlled entity.
On initial consolidation, the excess from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share based payment or shortfall of the fair value of the Groups existing interest in RBM over the carrying value of that interest will be taken to the income statement.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends vesting.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at five per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
46 Share based payments Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited the Companies have a number of share based payment plans, which are described in detail in the Remuneration Bonus Deferral Plan report.
These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, which means The Bonus Deferral Plan was introduced during 2009 and is made up of two parts: the Bonus Deferral Award and the Company Contributed Award.
that IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of employee share based payments that had not vested as at 1 January 2004.
The Bonus Deferral Award was established for the mandatory deferral of 100 per cent of the 2008 Bonus for executive directors and product group executives and 50 per cent of the 2008 Bonus for other executives.
In addition, in order to enhance retention of key employees the Company The charge that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tintos share based compensation plans, and the related liability for cash-settled Contributed Award was made in respect of 25 per cent of the gross annual basic salary for other executives.
plans, is set out in the table below.
Additional Bonus Deferral Awards were made in 2010 for the mandatory deferral of 50 per cent of the 2010 Bonus for executive directors and product Charge recognised for the year Liability at the end of the year group executives and 10 per cent of the 2010 Bonus for other executives, on the same terms as the 2008 Bonus Deferral Awards.
2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met.
The awards will be settled in equity including the dividend accumulated Equity-settled plans 157 119 76 from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share based payment a Cash-settled plans 1 5 101 2 5 transactions.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to the share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends vesting.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
Total 156 124 177 2 5 a From 1 July 2010 the accounting treatment for the Performance Share Plan formerly called the Mining Companies Comparative Plan changed from cash settled to equity settled.
This resulted in six months of expense for 2010 being classified as cash-settled and the remaining six months as equity-settled.
For further detail refer to the Performance Share Plan section in this note.
Lattice-based option valuation model The fair value of share options is estimated as at the date of grant using a lattice-based option valuation model.
The significant assumptions used in the All options and awards outstanding when the 2009 rights issues took place were adjusted to nullify any impact on the economic position of the valuation model are disclosed below.
Expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of Rio Tintos share returns under the UK and Australian participant at exercise.
Historical data was used to estimate employee forfeiture and cancellation rates within the valuation model.
Under the Share Option Plans, it is The main plans are as follows: assumed that after options have vested, 20 per cent per annum of participants will exercise their options when the market price is at least 20 per cent above the exercise price of the option.
Participants in the Share Savings Plans are assumed to exercise their options immediately after vesting.
Share Savings Plans The implied lifetime of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options granted Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for accordingly.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant was estimated using are expected to be outstanding.
The risk-free rate used in the valuation model is equal to the yield available on UK and Australian zero-coupon a latice-based option valuation model, including allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price.
government bonds for Rio Tinto plc and Limited options respectively at the date of grant with a term equal to the expected term of the options.
The key assumptions used in the valuations are noted in the table below: Share Option Plans The Group has a policy of settling these awards in equity, although the directors at their discretion can offer a cash alternative.
The awards are Risk-free Expected Dividend Forfeiture Cancellation Implied a interest rate volatility yield rates rates lifetime accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled, share based payment transactions.
The performance conditions in % % % % % Years Awards made in 2011 relation to Total Shareholder Return TSR have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for these awards by modelling the correlation Share Savings Plan between Rio Tintos TSR and that of the index.
The relationship between Rio Tintos TSR and the index was simulated many thousands of times to derive a distribution which, in conjunction with the lattice-based option valuation model, was used to determine the fair value of the options.
Rio Tinto plc 0.6-1.4 46.0 2.5 5.0 5.0 2.2-5.2 Rio Tinto Limited 3.5-3.6 37.0 1.9 5.0 5.0 3.2-5.2 Share Ownership Plan Share Option plan The fair values of awards of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of purchase.
Rio Tinto plc 2.5 46.0 1.6 n a 5.3 These awards are settled in equity.
The total fair value of shares awarded during the year was US$3 million 2010: US$2 million.
Rio Tinto Limited 5.4 37.0 1.3 n a 6.4 a In addition to the regular cancellation rates above it is assumed that on the anniversary of date of grant a proportion of employees will cancel their awards in favour of new awards if the then share price is less than the exercise price.
The proportion assumed is a sliding scale from 20 per cent cancelling if the then share price equals the exercise price to 100 per cent cancelling if the then share price is 75 per cent of the exercise price or less.
198 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Performance Share Plan formerly the Mining Companies Comparative Plan 45 Events after the statement of financial position date Prior to 2010, the Remuneration Committee gave the Plans participants the option to receive their awards in cash or as shares.
The performance conditions in Awards made in 2011 % % % % % Years relation to Total Shareholder Return TSR have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for these awards by modelling the correlation Share Savings Plan between Rio Tintos TSR and that of the index.
indd 199 06 03 2012 18:39 Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Management Share Plan and Bonus Deferral Plan 46 Share based payments continued Rio Tinto plc Awards Rio Tinto Limited Awards Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Summary of options outstanding average average average average A summary of the status of the Companies equity-settled share option plans at 31 December 2011 is presented below.
Bonus Deferral Plan 118,588 40.13 252,612 17.32 52,489 80.36 131,425 41.75 Options exercisable at 31 December 2011 Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 10-23 1,526,370 14.84 2.5 39 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$17-A$55 492,547 37.00 2.9 11 Average Average Average average share price share price share price share price 2,018,917 50 2010 2011 2011 2010 2011 2011 2010 2010 Number Number Number A$ Number A$ As at 31 December 2011, there were no options 2010: no options exercisable under either the Rio Tinto plc or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Shares issued in respect of vested awards during the year including dividend shares applied on vesting Savings Plans.
Management Share Plan 599,902 42.88 374,609 34.69 176,881 80.28 282,117 73.59 The Management Share Plan, Performance Share Plan and Bonus Deferral Plan together represent 81 per cent of the total IFRS 2 charge.
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 9,476 plc cash-settled awards and 2,056 Limited cash settled awards outstanding Performance Share Plan at 31 December 2011.
The total liability for the plc awards at 31 December 2011 was less than US$1 million 2010: less than US$1 million and for Rio Tinto plc Awards Rio Tinto Limited Awards Limited awards was less than US$1million 2010: less than US$1million.
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average 47 Post retirement benefits fair value at fair value at fair value at fair value at grant date grant date grant date grant date 2011 2011 2010 2010 2011 2011 2010 2010 Description of plans Number Number Number A$ Number A$ The Group operates a number of pension and post retirement healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined contribution and Non-vested shares at 1 January 2,475,349 27.37 2,324,181 14.98 1,289,576 57.09 1,515,643 31.97 some are defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Valuations of these plans are produced and updated Reclassification of phantom annually to 31 December by qualified actuaries.
There are some defined benefit Failed performance conditions 366,574 10.49 416,765 7.49 254,234 28.96 302,218 19.61 obligations in Australia but the retirement arrangements there are predominantly defined contribution.
In general the Group has a policy of moving Vested 382,473 10.35 488,544 7.41 273,706 28.64 334,135 19.42 towards defined contribution provision.
Non-vested shares A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the Canadian entities.
The two main plans are for salaried and bargaining employees.
at 31 December 2,473,203 33.67 2,475,349 27.37 1,204,561 71.24 1,289,576 57.09 Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay, while benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions.
There are a number of pension arrangements in the UK.
The defined benefit sections of these arrangements are linked to final pay and are closed Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted to new members, with new employees being admitted to defined contribution sections.
average average average average share price share price share price share price A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US entities.
Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay and 2011 2011 2010 2010 2011 2011 2010 2010 closed to new entrants, while benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions.
Number Number Number A$ Number A$ Shares issued in respect of In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany and France.
The largest single plan is in Switzerland and provides vested awards during the year 382,473 43.27 488,544 32.06 273,706 87.81 334,135 71.94 benefits linked to final average pay.
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 2,608 plc cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2011.
The total liability for In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution in nature but there are sections providing defined benefits linked to final pay, these awards at 31 December 2011 was less than US$1 million 2010: less than US$1 million.
typically paid in lump sum form.
The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, which are included in the figures below.
Post retirement healthcare plans Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some cases to their beneficiaries and covered dependants.
Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain age and service criteria.
These arrangements are generally unfunded, and are included in the figures below.
200 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Management Share Plan and Bonus Deferral Plan 46 Share based payments continued Rio Tinto plc Awards Rio Tinto Limited Awards Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Summary of options outstanding average average average average A summary of the status of the Companies equity-settled share option plans at 31 December 2011 is presented below.
com 201 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued Based Based on on th the e ass assu um mptions ptions m ma ade fide a an nd d the the distri distribution bution of of assets assets th the e weight weighted ed average average ex expected pected return return on on assets assets as as at at 1 1 Jan Janu uary ary 201 2011 1 was was 5.9 5.9 per per c ce ent nt 47 47 Post retirement benefits continued Post retirement benefits continued 2010: 2010: 6.4 6.4 per per c ce en nt t and and is is expected expected to to be be 5.0 5.0 per per cent cent as as at at 1 1 January January 2 2012.
The The sou sources rces us used ed to to determ determine ine m man anagem ageme en nt ts s bes best t es estim timate ate of of longlong-t ter erm m returns returns are are num numerous erous an and d inclu includ fide e  specific bon bond d yi yields, elds, whi whic ch h may may Plan Plan assets assets be be derived derived fr from om t th he e mar mark ket et using using local local bon bond d indic indice es s or or by by analy analys sis is of of t th he e local local bon bond d mar mark ket, et, and and country-s country-specific pecific inflation inflation a an nd d invest investment ment ma market rket The The prop proportions ortions o of f the the total total fair fair va vallu ue e of of ass asse ets ts in in the the p pe ension nsion plans plans f fo or r each each asse asset t cl class ass at at th the e sta stat te em ment ent of of financial financial posit positio ion n date date were: were: expec expect tations ations deriv derive ed d fro from m mark market et d da ata ta and and analy analys sts ts or or governm governments ents e ex xpecta pectat tions ions as as a ap pplicable.
6% Total Total expens expense e recognise recognised d in in the the income income statement statement Bonds Bonds 3 39.
7.1% 1% Pe Pens nsio ion n Ot Other her Tota Total l Tot Tota all Tot Tota all be benefi nefit ts s be benefi nefit ts s US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Oth Othe er r 4 4.5.
0% Inte Interest rest cost cost 852 852 58 58 91 910 0 974 974 826 826 The The assets assets of of the the plans plans are are gen gene erall rally y mana managed ged on on a a d da ay y- -toto-day day basis basis b by y external external sp specia eciali list st fund fund m managers.
These These m managers anagers m may ay in invest vest in in the the Group Groups s Expected return Expected return on assets on assets 782 782 1 1 78 783 3 777 777 581 581 securities securities subjec subject t to to li limits mits im impo pos sed ed by by th the e rel refile evant vant fid fidu uciary ciary committe committee es s and and lo local cal lle egislation.
The The appr approximat oximate e t total otal h ho olding lding of of Group Group s se ecurities curities wi within thin Past Past se serv rvice ice cost cost 6 6 4 4 2 2 29 29 11 11 the the plans plans is is US$2 US$22 2 milli million on 2010: 2010: U US S$24 $24 million.
Gains Gains o on n c curta urtaiilme lmen nt t and and settlement settlement 41 41 20 20 6 61 1 111 111 124 124 Total Total def defiined ned be benef nefiit t expense expense 274 274 44 44 31 318 8 348 348 325 325 Main Main assumptions assumptions rates rates per per annum annum Current Current emplo employ yer er s se ervice rvice cost cost fo for r def defiine ned d cont contrib ribu utio tion n a an nd d indust industry ry-widewide pl plans ans 285 285 1 1 28 286 6 225 225 199 199 The The main main assu assump mptions tions for for th the e valua valuat tions ions of of the the plans plans under under IAS IAS 19 19 are are set set out out b be elo low.
w. Information Information on on the the s se ensitivity nsitivity of of the the resu results lts to to the the main main Total Total expense expense recog recognised nised in in the the inc inco ome me statement statement 559 559 45 45 60 604 4 573 573 524 524 assumptions assumptions is is set set out out in in the the s se ensitivity nsitivity section section on on pa page ge 205.
Ot Other her The The abov above e ex expens pense e a am mounts ounts are are included included as as an an empl employee oyee c co ost st with within in net net operating operating c co osts sts..
In In 2011, 2011, US$21 US$21 million million pre-tax pre-tax of of curt curtailment ailment and and m ma aiin nlly y settl settlement ement gains gains r re elating lating to to the the s sa ale le of of business businesses es ha have five been been ex excluded cluded from from Underlying Underlying earnings earnings 2010: 2010: US$88 US$88 million, million, 2009: 2009: US$ US$61 61 million.
a a b b UK UK Au Austr stra allia ia US US C Ca an na ad da a E Eu uro rozo zone ne Sw Swit itz ze er rlla an nd d Afri Africa ca At At 31 31 December December 2 2011 011 Total Total amount amount recognise recognised d iin n other other comprehensi comprehensiv five e inc inco ome me before before t ta ax x Rate Rate of of increa increase se in in sala salarie ries s 4.
2.9% 9% US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m Disco Discount unfit rate rate 4.
2.9% 9% Loss Loss on on cu curre rrenc ncy y tran translat slation ion o on n pla plan ns s us usin ing g US US doll dollar ar f funct unctiion onal al cu cur rr renc ency y 67 67 70 70 At At 31 31 December December 2 2010 010 Loss gain Loss gain on on appl applicat ication ion of of asset asset lliimit mit 1 13 3 19 19 a a Rate Rate of of increa increase se in in sala salarie ries s 4.
4.3% 3% Total Total los loss s reco recogn gnis ised ed in in ot other her com comp pre rehens hensive ive incom income e 1, 1,96 961 1 786 786 970 970 Rate Rate of of increa increase se in in pensio pensions ns 3.
2.3% 3% Cum Cumu ulat latiive five a am mou oun nt t recog recogn niis sed ed iin n O Ot th he er r com comp preh rehe ens nsive ive iin ncom come e at at 31 31 Dec Dece em mb ber er 4, 4,54 547 7 2 2,586, 586 1 1,800, 800 Disco Discount unfit rate rate 5.
5.0% 0% a a Actuarial Actuarial loss loss includ includes es US US$5 $5 million million loss loss relat relate ed d t to o equi equit ty y a accou ccoun nt te ed d u un nit its s 2010: 2010: US US$ $4 4 million million loss: loss: 2009: 2009: US US$1 $126 26 million million loss.
2.3% 3% a a T Th he e disc discou ount nt rat rate e sh sho ow wn n f for or A Au ust stralia ralia is is aft afte er r t ta ax.
Deficits surpluses Deficits surpluses in in the the plans plans b b The The assumptions assumptions vary vary b by y location location for for t th he e O Other ther plans.
Assump Assumptions tions sh shown own are are for for Sout Southern hern A Af frica.
The The following following amounts amounts wer were e m me eas asured ured in in a accor ccord danc ance e with with IAS IAS 19 19 a at t 3 31 1 Dec Dece em mb ber: er: c c T Th he e iin nf fllat ation ion assu assumpt mptio ion n sh shown own f for or t th he e UK UK is is f for or t th he e R Re et ta ail il Price Price IIn ndex.
The The assumption assumption for for th the e C Co on ns su um me er r P Pr riic ce e In Ind fide ex x a at 3 t 31 1 Dece December mber 2 2011w 011was as 2.0 2.0 per per ce cen nt t 2010 2010: : 2 2.7.
7 per per ce cent nt.. 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2008 2008 2007 2007 Pe Pens nsio ion n Ot Other her Tota Total l Tot Tota all T To ota tall Tot Tota all Tot Tota all The The m main ain financial financial assum assump ptions tions used used for for the the heal healthca thcare re plans, plans, which which ar are e pre pred do om minantly inantly in in the the U US S and and Can Cana ada, da, were: were: discou discount nt rate rate: : 4.3 4.3 per per cent cent be benefi nefit ts s be benefi nefit ts s US$m US$m US US$m $m US US$m $m US US$m $m US US$m $m 2010: 2010: 5.3 5.3 pe per r c ce en nt t, , med medical ical tren trend d r rate: ate: 6.7 6.7 per per cent cent reducing reducing to to 5.0 5.0 per per cent cent by by the the year year 2017 2017 broa broadly dly on on a a straight straight line line bas basiis s 2010: 2010: 7.4 7.4 per per c ce ent, nt, Total Total fa fair ir va value lue of of p pllan an a assets ssets 13 13,075, 075 1 13, 3,075 075 13 13,144, 144 12 12,407, 407 9, 9,306 306 14 14,350, 350 reducing reducing to to 4.9 4.9 per per cent cent by by the the year year 2017, 2017, claims claims costs costs based based on on individual individual compan company y ex experience.
Prese Presen nt t val valu ue e of of ob obligatio ligation ns s f funded unded 16 16, 797 797 1 1 16 16, 7 798 98 15 15, 507 507 15 15, 148 148 11 11, 044 044 14 14, 822 822 For For bo both th the the p pe ension nsion and and healthc healthca are re arrangemen arrangements ts t th he e pos post t retire retireme men nt t m mo ortality rtality assu assum mptions ptions all allo ow w f fo or r future future impro improv five em ment ents s in in lon longevity.
Prese Presen nt t val valu ue e of of ob obligatio ligation ns s unf unfunde unded d 933 933 1 1,202, 202 2, 2,13 135 5 2 2,002, 002 2 2,385, 385 1 1,784, 784 2 2,089, 089 The The m mo ortality rtality ta tabl bles es used used im imply ply tha that t a a man man age aged d 60 60 a at t the the stat statem ement ent of of financial financial position position date date has has a a w we eight ighted ed av average erage ex expec pect ted ed future future lifetime lifetime Prese Presen nt t val valu ue e of of ob obligatio ligation ns s total total 17 17, 730 730 1 1,203, 203 18 18, 9 933 33 17 17, 509 509 17 17, 533 533 12 12, 828 828 16 16, 911 911 of of 25 25 years years 2010: 2010: 24 24 years years and and tha that t a a man man aged aged 60 60 iin n 2031 2031 woul would d ha hav five e a a w we eighted ighted aver average age expected expected fu future ture lifetime lifetime of of 27 27 y ye ears ars 2010: 2010: 26 26 years years.. Un Unrecogn recognised ised p past ast serv service ice cost cost 8 8 4 4 4 4 3 3 7 7 12 12 2 2 Ot Other her Effect Effect of of a asset sset lliimit mit 13 13 1 13 3 19 19 45 45 m ma aiin nlly y a a U UK K A Au us st tra rali lia a U US S C Can anad ada a E Eu ur ro ozo zon ne e Sw Swit itz ze er rlla an nd d Afri Africa ca Aggregate Aggregate def deficit icit to to be be shown shown in in t th he e statement statement of of fi fina nanci ncial al pos posiitio tion n 4 4,660, 660 1 1,207, 207 5, 5,86 867 7 4 4,362, 362 5 5,133, 133 3 3,553, 553 2 2,608, 608 LongLong-t term erm r ra ate te of of return expected return expected at at 1 1 Jan Janu ua ar ry y 201 2011 1 Compris Comprisiing ng: : Equit Equitiies es 7.
3.1% 1% Unfunded Unfunded post post re retirement tirement healthca healthcare re LongLong-t term erm r ra ate te of of return expected return expected obliga obligation tion 1 1,207, 207 1, 1,20 207 7 1 1,124, 124 1 1,330, 330 905 905 1 1,089, 089 at at 1 1 Jan Janu ua ar ry y 201 2010 0 Equit Equitiies es 8.
7% The The surplus surplus amou amounts nts shown shown a abov bove e are are included included in in th the e sta stat te em ment ent of of fin fina ancial ncial position position as as Trade Trade and and other other r re eceivabl ceivable es.
s. S See ee n note ote 18 18.. Bonds Bonds 4.
8.7% 7% Deficits Deficits are are sh show own n in in the the sta stat te em men ent t of of financial financial p po osi sit tiion on as as Post Post retire retirement ment ben bene efits.
6.5% 5% a a The The assumptions assumptions vary vary b by y locat location ion for for t th he e O Other ther plan plans.
s. Assu Assump mptions tions sh shown own are are for for Sout Southern hern A Af frica.
T Th he e expec expected ted rat rate e of of re retu turn rn on on pen pens sion ion plan plan asset assets s is is fide determined termined as as manag managem emen ents ts bes best t estimat estimate e of of th the e lon long-t g-te erm rm ret retu urns rns of of th the e major major asset asset c cllas asses ses equ equiit ties, ies, bon bond ds, s, pr propert operty y and and oth othe er r w we eig igh ht ted ed by by t th he e alloc allocat atio ion n of of asset assets s amo among ng t th he e cate categ gories ories at at t th he e m measur easurem ement ent da date.
The The expe expecte cted d r ra ate te o of f ret retu urn rn is is c ca alcu lcullat ated ed u us sing ing geo geomet metric ric averagin averaging.
g. T Th he e expect expecte ed d rat rate es s o of f ret retu urn rn sh show own n h ha ave five been been redu reduc ce ed d t to o allow allow f for or plan plan expen expenses ses iin ncludi cludin ng g, wh where ere appropriate appropriate, taxe taxes s iin nc cu urred rred w wiit th hiin n pen pension sion plan plans s on on in invest vestm men ent t retu return rns.
s. 202 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 203 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued Based on the assumptions made and the distribution of assets the weighted average expected return on assets as at 1 January 2011 was 5.9 per cent 47 Post retirement benefits continued 2010: 6.4 per cent and is expected to be 5.0 per cent as at 1 January 2012.
The sources used to determine managements best estimate of long-term returns are numerous and include country-specific bond yields, which may Plan assets be derived from the market using local bond indices or by analysis of the local bond market, and country-specific inflation and investment market The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the statement of financial position date were: expectations derived from market data and analysts or governments expectations as applicable.
2011 2010 Equities 47.9% 53.6% Total expense recognised in the income statement Bonds 39.5% 34.8% 2011 2010 2009 Property 8.1% 7.1% Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Other 4.5% 4.5% Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans 239 11 250 233 193 100.0% 100.0% Interest cost 852 58 910 974 826 The assets of the plans are generally managed on a day-to-day basis by external specialist fund managers.
These managers may invest in the Groups Expected return on assets 782 1 783 777 581 securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees and local legislation.
The approximate total holding of Group securities within Past service cost 6 4 2 29 11 the plans is US$22 million 2010: US$24 million.
Gains on curtailment and settlement 41 20 61 111 124 Total defined benefit expense 274 44 318 348 325 Main assumptions rates per annum Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans 285 1 286 225 199 The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below.
Information on the sensitivity of the results to the main Total expense recognised in the income statement 559 45 604 573 524 assumptions is set out in the sensitivity section on page 205.
Other The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net operating costs.
In 2011, US$21 million pre-tax of curtailment and mainly settlement gains relating to the sale of businesses have been excluded from Underlying earnings 2010: US$88 million, 2009: US$61 million.
a b UK Australia US Canada Eurozone Switzerland Africa At 31 December 2011 Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax Rate of increase in salaries 4.4% 3.8% 3.7% 3.3% 2.4% 2.4% 4.9% 2011 2010 2009 Rate of increase in pensions 2.5% 2.1% 0.8% 1.5% 2.9% US$m US$m US$m Discount rate 4.7% 3.2% 4.3% 4.5% 4.2% 2.0% 5.4% Actuarial losses 1,948 719 919 c Inflation 3.0% 2.1% 2.2% 2.0% 2.0% 1.4% 2.9% Loss on currency translation on plans using US dollar functional currency 67 70 At 31 December 2010 Loss gain on application of asset limit 13 19 a Rate of increase in salaries 4.9% 4.3% 3.8% 3.5% 2.5% 2.6% 4.3% Total loss recognised in other comprehensive income 1,961 786 970 Rate of increase in pensions 3.2% 2.6% 0.9% 1.9% 2.3% Cumulative amount recognised in Other comprehensive income at 31 December 4,547 2,586 1,800 Discount rate 5.4% 4.7% 5.3% 5.5% 4.9% 2.6% 5.0% a Actuarial loss includes US$5 million loss related to equity accounted units 2010: US$4 million loss: 2009: US$126 million loss.
Inflation 3.4% 2.6% 2.3% 2.3% 2.1% 1.6% 2.3% a The discount rate shown for Australia is after tax.
Deficits surpluses in the plans b The assumptions vary by location for the Other plans.
Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa.
The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December: c The inflation assumption shown for the UK is for the Retail Price Index.
The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2011was 2.0 per cent 2010: 2.7 per cent.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Pension Other Total Total Total Total Total The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 4.3 per cent benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2010: 5.3 per cent, medical trend rate: 6.7 per cent reducing to 5.0 per cent by the year 2017 broadly on a straight line basis 2010: 7.4 per cent, Total fair value of plan assets 13,075 13,075 13,144 12,407 9,306 14,350 reducing to 4.9 per cent by the year 2017, claims costs based on individual company experience.
Present value of obligations funded 16,797 1 16,798 15,507 15,148 11,044 14,822 For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity.
Present value of obligations unfunded 933 1,202 2,135 2,002 2,385 1,784 2,089 The mortality tables used imply that a man aged 60 at the statement of financial position date has a weighted average expected future lifetime Present value of obligations total 17,730 1,203 18,933 17,509 17,533 12,828 16,911 of 25 years 2010: 24 years and that a man aged 60 in 2031 would have a weighted average expected future lifetime of 27 years 2010: 26 years.
Bonds 4.5% 4.8% 5.0% 4.8% 4.8% 2.8% 8.7% Deficits are shown in the statement of financial position as Post retirement benefits.
The expected rate of return on pension plan assets is determined as managements best estimate of the long-term returns of the major asset classes equities, bonds, property and other weighted by the allocation of assets among the categories at the measurement date.
The expected rates of return shown have been reduced to allow for plan expenses including, where appropriate, taxes incurred within pension plans on investment returns.
com 203 Financial statements Notes Notes to to t th he e 2 2011 011 fi fina nancia ncial l statements statements continued continued 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2008 2008 2007 2007 47 47 Post retirement benefits continued Post retirement benefits continued Dif Diff fere eren nce ce b between the expected etween the expected an and d actual actual ret retu ur rn n on on pl plan an as assets sets: : Loss g Loss gai ain n U US$m S$m 32 320 0 346 346 891 891 3 3,308, 308 129 129 Contributions Contributions to to plans plans As As a a perce percen nta tage ge of of y ye ear ar e en nd d pla plan n as asse sets ts 2 2% % 3% 3% 7 7% % 3 36 6% % 1 1% % Contributions Contributions to to defined defined benefit benefit pen pensio sion n plans plans during during 2011 2011 totalled totalled U US S$ $610 610 million million 201 2010: 0: US$ US$1, 1,036 036 million: million: 2009: 2009: US$560 US$560 mil milllio ion.
n. The The decr decreas ease e compared compared to to 2010 2010 results results from from a a combin combination ation of of spec speciial al contributi contributions ons made made in in 2010 2010 as as a a res resul ult t of of the the sal sale e o of f t the he Pa Packagin ckaging g bus busiiness ness and and the the accelera acceleration tion of of some some contribu contributions tions from from 2011 2011 into into 20 2010.
Cont Contribution ributions s of of US$26 US$269 9 mil million lion 2010: 2010: US$212 US$212 million: million: 2009: 2009: US$190 US$190 mil million lion were were mad made e Sensitivity Sensitivity to to defined defined contribution contribution arrangemen arrangements ts and and U US S$16 $16 milli million on 2010: 2010: US$1 US$12 2 million: million: 2009: 2009: US$ US$9 9 million million to to indus indust try ry-widewide plans: plans: th these ese are are charged charged a ag gainst ainst The The values values re report porte ed d f fo or r the the defined defined benefit benefit pension pension o ob bligations ligations are are s se ensitive nsitive to to the the a ac ctua tuar rial ial a assumptions ssumptions used used for for projec projecting ting future future ben bene efit fit p pa ay ym ments ents profits profits and and are are included included in in th the e figures figures fo for r defined defined con cont tribution ribution current current employer employer s se ervice rvice costs costs shown shown on on th the e previous previous page.
and and discounting discounting t th hose ose pay paym ments.
T Th he e approxi approxim mat ate e s se ensitivities nsitivities to to the the principal principal assump assumpt tiions ons used used to to mea meas sure ure the the o ob bligation ligations s are: are: Contributions Contributions for for other other benefi benefits ts totalled totalled U US S$72 $72 million million 2010: 2010: US$79 US$79 million: million: 2009: 2009: US$46 US$46 million.
App Appr roxi oxim mat ate e i incr ncre ease ase d fide ecre crea ase se i in n ob obli ligat gati io ons ns Contributions Contributions to to defined defined benefit benefit pen pension sion plans plans for for 2 201 012 2 are are es estimated timated to to be be aro around und U US S$39 $39 million million less less than than for for 2011.
This This is is ke kept pt under under regular regular review review Pe Pens nsi ion ons s Oth Othe er r and and actual actual contrib contribu utions tions will will b be e d fide et te ermined rmined in in line line with with the the Group Groups s wi wider der financing financing strategy.
Health Healthcare care plans plans are are gen gene erall rally y u unfunded nfunded and and contributions contributions A As ss su ump mpti tion on C Ch ha an ng ge e i in n ass assu ump mpt tiion on US$m US$m US$m US$m for for future future y ye ears ars wi will ll be be equal equal to to ben bene efit fit pay paym ments ents and and therefore therefore canno cannot t be be pr prede edeter term miin ned ed.. Disco Discount unfit rate rate inc incr rease ease o of f 0 0.. 5 5 percentage percentage po poiint nts s 1, 1,09 091 1 6 68 8 decrease decrease of of 0.5 0.5 percentage percentage po point ints s 1, 1,16 166 6 7 73 3 Movements Movements iin n the the present present value value of of the the define defined d benef benefit it obligation obligation a an nd d in in the the fair fair value value of of assets assets In Inflat flation ion inc incr rease ease o of f 0 0.. 5 5 per perc centage entage po point ints s 59 598 8 3 39 9 The The amounts amounts shown shown bel belo ow w include, include, where where a appropriate, ppropriate, 100 100 per per cent cent of of the the c co osts, sts, c co ontributions, ntributions, ga gains ins and and llosses osses in in res resp pec ect t of of em empl ploy oyees ees who who participat participate e decrease decrease of of 0.5 0.5 percentage percentage po point ints s 5 572 72 33 33 in in the the plans plans an and d who who are are em employ ploye ed d in in op operations erations th that at are are prop propor ortiona tionally lly consolida consolidat ted ed o or r equity equity accounted.
Conseq Consequently, uently, the the cos costs, ts, contribu contributions, tions, gains gains Sa Salla ary ry in incr cre ea as se es s inc incre rea as se e o of f 0 0.. 5 5 percentage percentage po point ints s 13 136 6 4 4 and and loss losses es may may n not ot c co orrespon rrespond d dir dire ectly ctly t to o th the e a am mou ounts nts disclos disclose ed d ab abo ov five e in in resp respect ect of of the the Grou Group.
p. fide Defined fined c contribution ontribution plans plans and and  wide plans plans ar are e decrease decrease of of 0.5 0.5 percentage percentage po point ints s 1 131 31 3 3 ex exc cllu ude ded f d fr ro om m th the e m mo ov five em men ents ts bel belo ow w.. Dem Demo ograp graphic hic a all llo owance wance fo for r f fu utu ture re iim mprovem provements ents participa participan nts ts ass assu umed med to to have have the the mortalit mortality y rates rates 2 2011 011 2010 2010 in in lo longe ngev vit ity y of of ind indiiv viid du uals als w wh ho o are are one one y ye ea ar r older older 42 421 1 1 18 8 Pe Pens nsio ion n Ot Other her Tota Total l Tot Tota all participa participan nts ts ass assu umed med to to have have the the mortalit mortality y rates rates be benefi nefit ts s be benefi nefit ts s US$m US$m US US$m $m of of ind indiiv viid du uals als w wh ho o are are one one y ye ea ar r y yo ounger unger 42 421 1 1 18 8 Chang Change e in in present present value value of of obli oblig ga ati tion: on: Prese Presen nt t val valu ue e of of ob obligatio ligation n at at st start art o of f t th he e y ye ea ar r 16 16, 391 391 1 1,118, 118 17 17, 5 509 09 17 17, 533 533 Post-reti Post-retir reme emen nt t healthcare healthcare sensitivity sensitivity t to o changes changes in in assumptions assumptions Current Current emplo employ yer er s se ervice rvice cost cost 239 239 11 11 25 250 0 233 233 An An inc incr rease ease of of o on ne e per per cent cent in in t th he e as ass su ume med d medical medical cost cost trend trend rates rates wo would uld increa increase se th the a e ag ggregate of the c gregate of the cu urrent rrent s se ervi rvice ce cost cost a an nd int d interest cost components of t erest cost components of th he e Inte Interest rest cost cost 852 852 58 58 91 910 0 974 974 post post reti retirem reme ent nt healthca healthcare re expe expense nse b by y US US$5 $5 m miill llion ion 20 2010: 10: US US$7 $7 mil milllio ion n:: 2 2009 009: : US$6 US$6 mi mill llion ion, , and and iin nc cr rease ease t th he e benefit benefit ob obli ligat gatiio on n fo for r these these pl plan ans s by by US$71 US$71 mil millio lion n Contribut Contributiio on ns s by by p pllan an pa partic rticipa ipan nts ts 45 45 2 2 4 47 7 53 53 2010 2010: : US$ US$72 72 mi milli llion: on: 2 2009 009: : US$ US$98 98 m miill llion ion.. A A decrea decrease se of of one one per per ce cent nt iin n t th he e ass assu umed med medic medica al l c cost ost tre tren nd d r ra ates tes wou would ld decrea decrease se t th he e agg aggr regate egate o of f the the current current Exper Experiience ence ga gain l in lo oss ss 34 34 1 1 3 33 3 146 146 serv service ice cost cost a an nd d iin nt te eres rest t cost cost compon components ents of of t th he e post post ret retiirem reme ent nt healt health hca care re expense expense b by y US$4 US$4 millio million n 2010 2010: : US$ US$6 6 mill million ion:: 2 2009 009: : US US$5 $5 mill millio ion n, , and and fide decrease crease t th he e Chan Changes ges in in actu actuar ariial al ass assu umptio mption ns s lo loss ss 1 1,551, 551 123 123 1, 1,67 674 4 1 1,207, 207 benefit benefit ob obli ligat gatiion on f fo or r these these pl plan ans s by by U US S$60 $60 mill millio ion n 20 2010 10:: US$6 US$62 2 mill millio ion: n: 20 2009: 09: US$83 US$83 mi mill llion ion..
Benefit Benefits s pa paid id 974 974 74 74 1, 1,04 048 8 1, 1,045 045 a a Arrangements Arrangements d diive vested sted 19 19 1 19 9 1, 1,119 119 48 48 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures Inc Inclus lusion ion o of f a ar rr ran ang gem ements ents 2 2 2 2 15 15 2 2011 011 2010 2010 Past Past se serv rvice ice cost cost 5 5 2 2 3 3 39 39 As As at at 3 31 1 fide Dece cem mb ber er A$m A$m A$m A$m Curt Curtailm ailme en nts ts 41 41 2 20 0 6 61 1 104 104 Assets Assets Settlements Settlements 1 1 1 1 428 428 Current assets 1 11, 1,319 319 7, 7,642 642 Current assets Currenc Currency y excha exchan nge ge rate rate g ga aiin n los loss s 284 284 16 16 30 300 0 297 297 Non-current Non-current assets assets 1 11, 1,051 051 11 11,525, 525 Prese Presen nt t val valu ue e of of ob obligatio ligation n at at e en nd d of of t th he e y ye ea ar r 17 17, 730 730 1 1,203, 203 18 18, 9 933 33 17 17, 509 509 Total Total assets assets 2 22, 2,370 370 19 19,167, 167 G Ga ains ins and and l loss osses es on on ob obli liga gat tiion ons s 2 2011 011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2008 2008 2007 2007 Liabilities Liabilities Cur Curr rent ent li liabil abilit ities ies 14 14, 2 255 55 2 2,852, 852 Exper Experiience ence ga gains ins llosses osses : : iie e va vari riance ances s between the est between the estiimate mate of of obligatio obligation ns s and and the the s su ubse bseq quent uent outcome outcome 3 33 3 146 146 139 139 37 37 41 41 N No onn-cur curr rent ent li liabil abilit ities ies 10 102 2 101 101 As As a a perce percen nta tage ge of of the the prese presen nt t va value lue o of f the the y ye ear ar e en nd d obl obliigations gations 0% 0% 1% 1% 1 1% % 0% 0% 0% 0% Total Total liabilitie liabilities s 14 14, 3 357 57 2 2,953, 953 Chan Change ge in in a assumpt ssumptiions ons loss loss ga gaiin n U US$m S$m 1, 1,67 674 4 1 1,207, 207 1 1,671, 671 1, 1,684 684 315 315 Net Net assets assets 8, 8,01 013 3 16 16,214, 214 2 2011 011 2010 2010 Pe Pens nsio ion n Ot Other her Tota Total l Tot Tota all Shareholders Shareholders equity equity be benefi nefit ts s be benefi nefit ts s US$m US$m US US$m $m Sh Shar are e cap capiital tal 4, 4,11 113 3 4, 4,113 113 Change Change in in plan plan as assets: sets: Ava Avaiilablelable-fo forr-sa sale le iin nvestm vestme ent nt reval revalu ua at tion ion reser reserve five 4 4 Fair Fair val valu ue e of of pl plan an a assets ssets at at t th he e sta star rt t of of the the y ye ea ar r 13 13,144, 144 1 13, 3,144 144 12 12,407, 407 Share Share ba base sed d p pa ay ym ments ents re reserve serves s 18 183 3 137 137 Expected return on plan a Expected return on plan assets ssets 782 782 1 1 78 783 3 777 777 Capita Capital l rese reserves rves 53 536 6 536 536 Actua Actuar riia al l llosses osses gai gains ns o on n pla plan n as assets sets 320 320 32 320 0 346 346 Retained Retained ea earnings rnings 3, 3,55 551 1 11 11,702, 702 Contribut Contributiio on ns s by by p pllan an pa partic rticipa ipan nts ts 45 45 2 2 4 47 7 53 53 Total Total equity equity 8, 8,01 013 3 16 16,214, 214 C Con ontr triibu but tiio on ns s by by e em mpl ploy oye er r 624 624 71 71 69 695 5 1, 1,116 116 Benefit Benefits s pa paid id 974 974 74 74 1, 1,04 048 8 1 1,045, 045 Profit Profit of of the the pare parent nt company company 1 11, 1,563 563 10 10,329, 329 Arrangements Arrangements d diive vested sted 5 5 5 5 401 401 Inc Inclus lusion ion o of f a ar rr ran ang gem ements ents 15 15 Total Total comprehensive comprehensive income income of of th the e parent parent company company 1 11, 1,567 567 10 10,328, 328 Settlements Settlements 1 1 1 1 421 421 Currenc Currency y excha exchan nge ge rate rate lo loss gain ss gain 220 220 22 220 0 297 297 Conting Continge ent nt liabili liabilities ties Fai Fair r val valu ue e of of pl plan an a assets ssets at at t th he e end end o of f the the y ye ea ar r 13 13,075, 075 1 13, 3,075 075 13 13,144, 144 b b Bank Bank and and ot other her pe per rform formance ance gu guara aran nte tees es 1 18, 8,669 669 15 15,149, 149 a a Prepared Prepared un under der Aus Aust tralian ralian Ac Acco coun unting ting Sta Standard ndards s AAS.
IIn n rela relation tion to to Ri Rio o Tinto Tinto Limit Limited ed there there ar are e no no sig sign niif fican icant t measur measuremen ement t di differe fferences nces bet betw ween een AA AAS S and and EU EU IFR IFRS S.. Actual Actual ret retu ur rn n on on pl plan an as assets sets 4 463 63 1, 1,123 123 b b Bank Bank a an nd d ot other her p pe erformance rformance g gu uaran arantees tees rela relate te prin princ ciipally pally t to o th the e obliga obligat tio ion ns s of of su subsidiary bsidiary c co ompan mpanies.
Pu Pursu rsua ant nt t to o th the e DL DLC C me merg rge er r, b bo oth th R Riio o T Tiint nto o p pllc c an and d R Riio o T Tiin nt to o L Liim miit ted ed iis ssu sued ed fide deed ed p poll oll g gu ua ar ra an nte tee es s b by y whi which ch ea each ch comp compan any y g gu ua ar rant ante ee ed d c co on nt tr ra ac ct tu ua al l o ob bli lig ga at tiion ons s in inc cu ur rr re ed d b by y t th he e ot oth he er r or or gu gua ar ra an nt te eed ed by by t th he e ot oth he er r.. Th These ese g gu uara aran nte tees es ar are e ex excl clud uded ed fro from m t th he e f fiig gu ur res es a abo bove five.. 204 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 205 Financial statements Notes to the 2011 financial statements continued 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 47 Post retirement benefits continued Difference between the expected and actual return on plan assets: Loss gain US$m 320 346 891 3,308 129 Contributions to plans As a percentage of year end plan assets 2% 3% 7% 36% 1% Contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2011 totalled US$610 million 2010: US$1,036 million: 2009: US$560 million.
The decrease compared to 2010 results from a combination of special contributions made in 2010 as a result of the sale of the Packaging business and the acceleration of some contributions from 2011 into 2010.
Contributions of US$269 million 2010: US$212 million: 2009: US$190 million were made Sensitivity to defined contribution arrangements and US$16 million 2010: US$12 million: 2009: US$9 million to industry-wide plans: these are charged against The values reported for the defined benefit pension obligations are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments profits and are included in the figures for defined contribution current employer service costs shown on the previous page.
The approximate sensitivities to the principal assumptions used to measure the obligations are: Contributions for other benefits totalled US$72 million 2010: US$79 million: 2009: US$46 million.
Approximate increase decrease in obligations Contributions to defined benefit pension plans for 2012 are estimated to be around US$39 million less than for 2011.
This is kept under regular review Pensions Other and actual contributions will be determined in line with the Groups wider financing strategy.
Healthcare plans are generally unfunded and contributions Assumption Change in assumption US$m US$m for future years will be equal to benefit payments and therefore cannot be predetermined.
Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 1,091 68 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 1,166 73 Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and in the fair value of assets Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points 598 39 The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who participate decrease of 0.5 percentage points 572 33 in the plans and who are employed in operations that are proportionally consolidated or equity accounted.
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 136 4 and losses may not correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in respect of the Group.
Defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are decrease of 0.5 percentage points 131 3 excluded from the movements below.
Demographic allowance for future improvements participants assumed to have the mortality rates 2011 2010 in longevity of individuals who are one year older 421 18 Pension Other Total Total participants assumed to have the mortality rates benefits benefits US$m US$m of individuals who are one year younger 421 18 Change in present value of obligation: Present value of obligation at start of the year 16,391 1,118 17,509 17,533 Post-retirement healthcare sensitivity to changes in assumptions Current employer service cost 239 11 250 233 An increase of one per cent in the assumed medical cost trend rates would increase the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost components of the Interest cost 852 58 910 974 post retirement healthcare expense by US$5 million 2010: US$7 million: 2009: US$6 million, and increase the benefit obligation for these plans by US$71 million Contributions by plan participants 45 2 47 53 2010: US$72 million: 2009: US$98 million.
A decrease of one per cent in the assumed medical cost trend rates would decrease the aggregate of the current Experience gain loss 34 1 33 146 service cost and interest cost components of the post retirement healthcare expense by US$4 million 2010: US$6 million: 2009: US$5 million, and decrease the Changes in actuarial assumptions loss 1,551 123 1,674 1,207 benefit obligation for these plans by US$60 million 2010: US$62 million: 2009: US$83 million.
Benefits paid 974 74 1,048 1,045 a Arrangements divested 19 19 1,119 48 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures Inclusion of arrangements 2 2 15 2011 2010 Past service cost 5 2 3 39 As at 31 December A$m A$m Curtailments 41 20 61 104 Assets Settlements 1 1 428 Current assets 11,319 7,642 Currency exchange rate gain loss 284 16 300 297 Non-current assets 11,051 11,525 Present value of obligation at end of the year 17,730 1,203 18,933 17,509 Total assets 22,370 19,167 Gains and losses on obligations 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Liabilities Current liabilities 14,255 2,852 Experience gains losses : ie variances between the estimate of obligations and the subsequent outcome 33 146 139 37 41 Non-current liabilities 102 101 As a percentage of the present value of the year end obligations 0% 1% 1% 0% 0% Total liabilities 14,357 2,953 Change in assumptions loss gain US$m 1,674 1,207 1,671 1,684 315 Net assets 8,013 16,214 2011 2010 Pension Other Total Total Shareholders equity benefits benefits US$m US$m Share capital 4,113 4,113 Change in plan assets: Available-for-sale investment revaluation reserve 4 Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 13,144 13,144 12,407 Share based payments reserves 183 137 Expected return on plan assets 782 1 783 777 Capital reserves 536 536 Actuarial losses gains on plan assets 320 320 346 Retained earnings 3,551 11,702 Contributions by plan participants 45 2 47 53 Total equity 8,013 16,214 Contributions by employer 624 71 695 1,116 Benefits paid 974 74 1,048 1,045 Profit of the parent company 11,563 10,329 Arrangements divested 5 5 401 Inclusion of arrangements 15 Total comprehensive income of the parent company 11,567 10,328 Settlements 1 1 421 Currency exchange rate loss gain 220 220 297 Contingent liabilities Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 13,075 13,075 13,144 b Bank and other performance guarantees 18,669 15,149 a Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
In relation to Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences between AAS and EU IFRS.
Actual return on plan assets 463 1,123 b Bank and other performance guarantees relate principally to the obligations of subsidiary companies.
Pursuant to the DLC merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
These guarantees are excluded from the figures above.
