Summary financial data in Australian dollars, Sterling and US dollars Restated 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 A$m A$m m m US$m US$m a 63,544 64,363 40,915 38,203 Gross sales revenue 65,622 59,214 58,620 59,968 37,744 35,594 Consolidated sales revenue 60,537 55,171 12,796 22,273 8,239 13,220 Profit before tax from continuing operations 13,214 20,491 6,560 16,516 4,224 9,803 Profit for the year from continuing operations 6,775 15,195 10 105 6 63 Loss for the year from discontinued operations 10 97 5,641 15,476 3,632 9,186 Net earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 5,826 14,238 b 15,057 15,203 9,695 9,024 Underlying earnings 15,549 13,987 c 293.9c 794.6c 189.3p 471.7p Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations 303.5c 731.0c a c 782.9c 775.3c 504.1p 460.2p Basic Underlying earnings per ordinary share 808.5c 713.3c d Dividends per share to owners of Rio Tinto 111.75c 100.83c 72.95p 57.05p paid 117.0c 90.0c 84.20c 61.94c 57.33p 39.14p proposed final dividend 91.0c 63.0c 3,091 18,007 1,990 10,688 Cash flow before financing activities 3,192 16,566 8,339 3,991 5,493 2,626 Net debt 8,451 4,071 51,845 57,105 34,150 37,579 Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 52,539 58,247 a Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries in addition to consolidated sales.
Refer to note 2. b Underlying earnings exclude impairment charges and other net charges of US$9,723 million 2010 net income: of US$251 million, which are analysed in note 2. c Basic earnings per ordinary share and basic Underlying earnings per ordinary share do not recognise the dilution resulting from share options in issue.
d The financial data above have been extracted from the financial statements.
The Australian dollar and Sterling amounts are based on the US dollar amounts, retranslated at average or closing rates as appropriate, except for the dividends which are the actual amounts payable.
For further information on these exchange rates, see note 43.
220 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Performance highlights Financial calendar a Record underlying earnings of US$15.5 billion, 11 per cent above 2010.
2012 a Net earnings of US$5.8 billion, 59 per cent below 2010, primarily as a result of an impairment 17 January Fourth quarter 2011 operations review charge of US$8.9 billion related to the Groups aluminium businesses.
9 February Announcement of results for 2011 a Record underlying EBITDA of US$28.5 billion, ten per cent above 2010.
29 February Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2011 final dividend Record cash flows from operations up 16 per cent to US$27.4 billion.
2 March Record date for 2011 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 6 March Record date for 2011 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares Capital expenditure of US$12.3 billion in 2011, compared with US$4.6 billion in 2010.
Total capital expenditure for 2012 projects approved at date of this report and sustaining capital is expected 16 March Publication of 2011 Annual report, Annual review and Notices of annual general meetings to be US$16 billion.
Further project approvals, mainly in the Pilbara, are likely to increase this level Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the of investment as the growth programme continues.
20 March 2011 final dividend Dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing Pilbara iron ore expansion to 283 million tonnes per annum mtpa now fully approved and 3 April to receive pounds sterling on track to be in operation by end of 2013: second planned phase expansion of Pilbara capacity 12 April Payment date for 2011 final dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs enhanced to 353 mtpa and completion brought forward by six months to first half of 2015.
17 April First quarter 2012 operations review Growth options enhanced in Mongolia, Mozambique and South Africa: Rio Tinto moves to 19 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc majority stake in Ivanhoe, completes Riversdale acquisition providing entry to an emerging 10 May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited major coking coal resource and announces doubling of stake in Richards Bay Minerals.
17 July Second quarter 2012 operations review 34 per cent increase to full year dividend to 145 US cents per share, reflecting confidence 8 August Announcement of half year results for 2012 in long-term outlook.
15 August Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2012 interim dividend US$7 billion share buy-back programme on track for completion by end of the first quarter 2012.
17 August Record date for 2012 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs Twelve months to 31 December 21 August Record date for 2012 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares All amounts are US$ millions unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Change Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the a Underlying EBITDA 28,521 25,978 10% 22 August 2012 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc a Underlying earnings 15,549 13,987 11% Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the a Net earnings 5,826 14,238 59% 23 August 2012 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited Cash flows from operations 27,388 23,530 16% Dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing Underlying earnings per share US cents 808.5 713.3 13% 6 September to receive pounds sterling Basic earnings per share from continuing operations US cents 303.5 731.0 58% 13 September Payment date for 2012 interim dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs Ordinary dividends per share US cents 145.0 108.0 34% 16 October Third quarter 2012 operations review The financial results are prepared in accordance with IFRS and EU IFRS.
2013 a Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator which management uses internally to assess performance.
It is presented here to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of the Groups operations attributable January Fourth quarter 2012 operations review to the owners of Rio Tinto.
Net earnings and underlying earnings relate to profit attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Underlying February Announcement of results for 2012 earnings is defined and reconciled to net earnings in note 2 to the 2011 financial statements.
EBITDA is defined on page 212.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the same items that are excluded from underlying earnings and is reconciled to the Income Statement in note 2 on page 154.
This Annual report and Auditors report comply ore reserves, anticipated production or construction with Australian and UK reporting requirements.
dates, costs, outputs and productive lives of assets or similar factors.
Forward looking statements Copies of Rio Tintos shareholder documents are involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, available on the website at www.
assumptions and other factors set forth in this They can also be obtained free of charge from the document that are beyond the Groups control.
Some shareholders may prefer to receive For example, future ore reserves will be based in the Annual review which contains the summary financial part on market prices that may vary significantly from statements although shareholders should note that it current levels.
These may materially affect the timing does not allow as full an understanding of the Group.
and feasibility of particular developments.
Other factors include the ability to produce and transport Cautionary statement about products profitably, demand for our products, the effect of foreign currency exchange rates on forward-looking statements market prices and operating costs, and activities This document contains certain forward-looking by governmental authorities, such as changes statements with respect to the financial condition, in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
results of operations and business of the Rio Tinto In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, Group.
These statements are forward-looking actual results could be materially different from statements within the meaning of Section 27A projected future results expressed or implied by of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E these forward looking statements which speak only of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The words as to the date of this report.
Except as required by intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not plan, believes, expects, may, should, will, undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise or similar expressions, commonly identify such any forward looking statements, whether as a result forward looking statements.
of new information or future events.
The Group cannot Examples of forward-looking statements in this guarantee that its forward looking statements will not Annual report include those regarding estimated differ materially from actual results.
com reportingcentre2011 Useful information 2011 Annual report Registered offices Holders of Rio Tinto American Investor Centre Rio Tinto plc Depositary Receipts ADRs Investor Centre is Computershares 2 Eastbourne Terrace free, secure, self service website, Please contact the ADR administrator London where shareholders can manage their if you have any queries W2 6LG holdings online.
The website about your ADRs.
719885 enables shareholders to: ADR administrator Telephone: 44 0 20 7781 2000 View share balances JPMorgan Chase & Co Fax: 44 0 20 7781 1800 Change address details PO Box 64504 Website: riotinto.
com Overview Governance St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 View payment and tax information Performance highlights IFC Chairmans introduction 67 Rio Tinto Limited Update payment instructions Telephone: 1 651 453 2128 Chairmans letter 1 Corporate governance 68 Level 33 US residents only, toll free general: Chief executives statement 2 Board of directors 77 120 Collins Street In addition, shareholders who register 800 990 1135 Group overview 3 Executive committee 80 Melbourne their email address on Investor Centre, US residents only, toll free Global Victoria 3000 Strategic context 5 Directors report 81 can be notified electronically of events invest direct: 800 428 4237 ABN 96 004 458 404 Group strategy 6 Remuneration report 86 such as annual general meetings, and Website: www.
com Business model 7 Remuneration report tables 106 can receive shareholder Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 Email: jpmorgan.
com Key performance indicators 8 Shareholder information 119 communications such as the Fax: 61 0 3 9283 3707 Rio Tinto Limited Principal risks and uncertainties 10 annual report or notice of meeting Website: riotinto.
com Computershare Investor Services Financial statements electronically online.
Rio Tintos agent in the US is Pty Limited Performance Detailed contents 130 Rio Tinto plc shareholders Cheree Finan, who may be GPO Box 2975 Sustainable development 14 Group income statement 131 contacted at Melbourne www.
co. uk riotinto Aluminium 20 Group statement of comprehensive income 132 Rio Tinto Services Inc. Victoria 3001 Copper 22 Group cash flow statement 133 Rio Tinto Limited shareholders 80 State Street Telephone: 61 0 3 9415 4030 Diamonds & Minerals 24 Group statement of financial position 134 www.
com Albany, NY 12207-2543 Fax: 61 0 3 9473 2500 Energy 26 Group statement of changes in equity 135 Shareholders Australian residents only, toll free: Iron Ore 28 Reconciliation with AAS 136 Please refer to the Investor Centre of 1800 813 292 Business Support & Operations 30 Outline of dual listed companies structure the respective registrar if you have any New Zealand residents only, toll free: Exploration 30 and basis of financial statements 136 queries about your shareholding.
0800 450 740 Other Business Support & Operations 30 Notes to the 2011 financial statements 137 Website: www.
com Rio Tinto plc Technology & Innovation 31 Company balance sheet 206 Computershare Investor Former Alcan Inc. Shareholders Financial review 32 Financial information by business unit 209 Services PLC Computershare Investor Five year review 39 Summary of ASIC relief 213 The Pavilions Services Inc. Acquisitions and divestments 40 Directors declaration 214 Bridgwater Road 9th Floor Capital projects 41 Auditors independence declaration 215 Bristol 100 University Avenue Independent auditors report 216 BS99 6ZY Toronto, ON M5J 2Y1 Production, reserves and operations Financial summary 2002-2011 218 Ontario Telephone: 44 0 870 703 6364 Metals and minerals production 44 Summary financial data 220 Fax: 44 0 870 703 6119 Telephone: 1 514 982 7555 Ore reserves 48 UK residents only, North American residents only, toll Additional information Mineral resources 52 freephone: 0800 435021 free: 1 866 624 1341 Competent Persons 57 Financial calendar IBC Website: www.
com Mines and production facilities 58 Useful information BC View this report alongside our Annual review and Sustainable development report This document is printed on Amadeus Offset 50, a paper containing 50% post consumer recycled fibre and 50% virgin on our website at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2011 fibre sourced from well managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com Go online for more information 2011 Annual review Visit our reporting centre at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2011 find out more about our business and performance: view our full 2011 Annual report: and view our full sustainable development reporting.
Contents 1 Highlights 2 Group overview 4 Interview with the chairman and chief executive 6 Our strategy 7 Our strategic drivers 8 Our business model 9 Executive committee 10 Sustainable development 12 Business review 12 Aluminium 14 Copper 16 Diamonds & Minerals 18 Energy 20 Iron Ore 22 Board of directors 23 Summary corporate governance report 24 Summary remuneration report 27 Summary financial information by business unit 28 Summary financial statements 31 Independent auditors statement 32 Useful information View this report alongside our Annual report and Sustainable development report on our website at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2011 From the earth to the world Highlights Rio Tinto started celebrating the London 2012 Olympic and A record financial performance Paralympic Games early as the official supplier of the metals for the Underlying earnings more information on p27 4,700 gold, silver and bronze medals.
We sourced the metals from US$ mines on opposite sides of the globe from our Kennecott Utah 15.5 bn Copper mine near Salt Lake City, US, and from our Oyu Tolgoi project Net earnings in Mongolia.
In taking metals from mine to medals we did what we do on a daily basis, year in and year out.
We extract metals and minerals US$ 5.8 bn taking them from the earth to the world: from our mines where they are produced and processed, to customers who transform them into Cash flows from operations things people rely on in their everyday lives.
US$ 27.4 bn The Olympic ethos of dedication, teamwork and playing by the rules is also reflected in our way of working.
This years Games are the Underlying EBITDA more information on p27 Sustainable Games.
They convey the values that Rio Tinto has long US$ held of ensuring that safety, the environment and the future of the 28.5 bn communities that host our operations take precedence in the way we work at every stage from the mine to the market.
Share buy-back substantially complete US$ 7 bn Full year dividend per share US 145 Exceptional operational delivery All injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.67 Record global iron ore production 100% basis 245 mt a Capital expenditure US$ 12.3 bn Continuing progress on sustainable development Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from 2008 down 3.8% Community contributions US$ 294 m 2011 Annual review 1 Sec Group o tion title verview P A global business age title Intr with a oduction local perspective Through a balance of geology and operational expertise we supply the world with metals and minerals that make modern life work.
From our operations on six continents, we supply the needs of our customers in our operating heartland and in growth markets around the world.
Our diverse products and global presence mean we are well-placed to be the leading mining and metals company.
31% of sales to China 16% of sales to Europe, Middle East and Africa 18% of sales to North and South America Key to map Mines, mining projects, smelters, refineries and processing plants remote from mine An interactive map detailing the specific activities of our operations is online at riotinto.
com Section title Aluminium Iron Ore We are a global leader in the aluminium industry.
Our iron ore business is the second largest Page title Our facilities include high quality bauxite mines supplier to the iron ore market which makes 2011 underlying earnings and alumina refineries, as well as  industrial and infrastructure use.
Our by product group advanced primary aluminium smelters.
commitment to operational excellence and Introduction technological innovation continues to drive % of Group total Aluminium products range from cookware to record performance.
Light, strong, Aluminium 3% flexible, non-corrosive and infinitely recyclable We are also the worlds largest salt Copper 12% aluminium is one of the worlds most widely exporter, producing industrial salt for the Diamonds & Minerals 2% used metals.
Energy 7% Iron Ore 83% Products: Bauxite, alumina, aluminium Products: Iron ore and salt Copper Exploration Our copper business aims to be one of the most We are a product of our exploration expertise dynamic and forward-thinking participants in its and see this activity as a core part of our market.
Our portfolio of copper assets is one of business.
The team focuses on finding large, theworlds largest and most productive.
low-cost resources that are profitable at all parts of the commodity cycle.
This process is often long We also have some of the worlds most exciting and complex, involving the use of sophisticated copper projects under development.
Copper is technology in remote locations and under found in nearly every home and vehicle, and in challenging conditions.
parts and appliances vital to infrastructure and technology development.
At the end of 2011 the Exploration group was actively exploring in 18 countries for a broad Products: Copper, gold, molybdenum, silver range of commodities including bauxite, copper, coking coal, diamonds, iron ore, nickel, potash Diamonds & Minerals and uranium.
Our Diamonds & Minerals group is highly diversified and truly global in reach.
The group Technology & Innovation comprises mining, refining and marketing Working with Rio Tintos product groups and operations across the diamonds and the minerals business units, Technology & Innovation T&I sectors.
We are recognised leaders in borates has facilitated the capture of significantvalue for and titanium dioxide supply and science.
the company and its shareholders.
Our centralised Diamonds & Minerals products are used in team of specialists focuses on improving current everyday products from paint and sunscreen to technologies and operations, with an emphasis on 35% flat-screen televisions and engagement rings.
project evaluation, development and execution.
TM Products: Diamonds, borates, titanium dioxide Our Mine of the Future programme has led to of sales to the rest of feedstocks, high purity iron, metal powders, zircon the use of remote controlled haul-trucks, block Asia and Australia and rutile caving, and other technological innovations that are helping toimprove safety and productivity.
Energy We are one of the worlds major producers of thermal coal, used for electricity generation in power stations, and of coking coal for steel making.
We are also one of the worlds major producers of uranium.
Our uranium is used exclusively for the generation of nuclear electricity.
Strict security measures are followed to ensure our uranium products are used only for peaceful purposes.
Products: Thermal coal, coking coal, uranium Aggregate product group underlying earnings contribution of 107 per cent is reduced to 100 per cent by negative amounts for Other items and Net interest.
An interactive map detailing the specific activities of our operations is online at riotinto.
asp 2011 Annual review 3 3 Interview with the chairman and chief executive Record earnings in volatile markets 2011 was a record year for Rio Tinto.
Our underlying earnings The dividend has been increased by 34 per cent, reflecting before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortisation EBITDA confidence in the long-term future of our operations.
However, rose ten per cent on 2010 to US$28.5 billion.
In particular, the our net earnings were US$5.8 billion, a fall of 59 per cent rise reflected strong pricing and record iron ore sales despite reflecting an impairment charge of US$9.3 billion.
production being adversely affected by the weather in Australia QA Here, chairman, Jan du Plessis, and chief executive, in the early part of the year.
We also achieved record underlying Tom Albanese, discuss Rio Tintos performance during 2011, earnings of US$15.5 billion, up 11 per cent on 2010.
& their expectations for coming years and how the Group is with Jan du Plessis maintaining its commitment to deliver its strategy sustainably.
and Tom Albanese View this online at riotinto.
com Q How has the global economic and financial climate affected 2011 results Rio Tintos results?
Jan: The markets were very volatile in 2011 yet we managed a record year.
We were able to increase our dividend by 34 per cent and strengthen the company to meet forthcoming challenges including those of growth and expansion.
Tom: The market volatility Jan mentions resulted in increasing pressure on our margin performance throughout 2011.
The industry-wide phenomenon of high cost inflation coupled with strengthening currencies in some markets, adverse weather conditions and escalating raw material prices has squeezed our profits.
Despite this, we were able to deliver record earnings which is atestament to the 68,000 employees we have working for the company.
Q How do you expect the markets to impact our performance Our performance in 2012 in 2012?
Jan: We have experienced choppy waters in recent years but Rio Tinto has a long-term view.
Emerging markets like China are industrialising, people are moving to the towns and working to raise their standards of living.
Demand for the products we produce is expected to double over the next 20 years and we remain positive about the long-term demand prospects for our business.
Tom: In the short term, we believe there will be continuing volatility.
The debt crisis in Europe has not only weakened demand there, it has the potential for contagion in other markets.
The pace of recovery in the US is slow but there have been some signs that their situation is improving.
China is still set to grow substantially.
The economic environment is constantly changing so we must remain flexible and agile to adapt.
Q What are the challenges you expect in the next few years?
The challenges ahead Jan: We have had a disappointing year on the safety front.
Although we have seen an improvement in our leading safety indicators, the deaths of six colleagues in 2011 were terrible tragedies.
As we grow and operate in increasingly challenging geographies, we must retain our focus on zero harm a core part of our sustainable development commitment.
We will increasingly need to work with a variety of stakeholders from governments to communities and we are upping our game in managing these interactions even more effectively.
Tom: Our results this year were impacted, primarily as a result of an impairment charge of US$8.9 billion related to the Groups aluminium businesses.
The aluminium market is being squeezed by challenging supply and demand conditions, as well as rising input costs.
We have started atransformation of the aluminium business and I am confident we are on track to deliver margin improvements.
Costs generally have been rising which is making investment and operations more expensive.
We are embarking on a number of cost management initiatives this year to optimise performance across all of our operations.
Q Have recent events changed Rio Tintos strategy and its Strategy remains the same commitment to sustainable development?
Jan: Our strategy remains unchanged to invest in large, long-term, cost-competitive mines and businesses.
In 2012, total capital expenditure on approved projects and sustaining capital is expected to be US$16 billion, which indicates our commitment to growth.
But it isnt growth at any cost we must do so sustainably and sensibly.
Tom: We have one of the most exciting growth pipelines in the business: the first coal from our Mozambique coalfields will be exported in the first quarter of 2012.
Looking ahead, we will start producing copper at our Oyu Tolgoi project in Mongolia in 2012 and our first iron ore production from Guinea is also on track to be shipped in 2015.
In addition, we have an ambitious organic growth programme with a continuing significant investment in our world-class iron ore operation in the Pilbara, Western Australia.
Sustainable development is incredibly important to us which is why it continues to be integral to everything we do.
We have a commitment to engage with the communities that host our mines, supporting health, education, local suppliers and business programmes.
We will retain our focus onbest in class environmental practices, with our goal to have a net positive impact on biodiversity that is, to leave mine sites at least as good as we found them.
2011 Annual review 5 Our strategy To be the leading global mining and metals company Our strategy keeps us focused on only the very best assets in the industry, and takes us ever closer to achieving our vision to be the leading global mining and metals company.
The benefits of sector leadership to our stakeholders are significant.
The opportunities we pursue are driven by the quality of each opportunity.
For shareholders it means delivery of superior returns.
For host Put simply, we look for high-quality assets that can provide superior returns governments and communities, it means ensuring widespread and lasting throughout the production cycle with options for expansion when the time economic benefits.
We are better able to respond to customers needs.
For employees we provide leading training and development opportunities This consistent strategy has served us well and we are confident it will in a world-class business.
continue to do so in the years ahead.
Our strategic focus requires the We are well placed to capitalise on our leadership position.
Our portfolio combination of our peoples talent throughout the organisation from includes some of the worlds best assets from our world-class iron ore individual mining and processing sites across the globe to shared functions operations in Australia to the huge potential of our growth projects there and that span our activities.
In every aspect of our strategy we aim to create the in Mongolia, Guinea and Mozambique.
We also have a strong balance sheet processes and culture that puts safety in the forefront of our minds and to and reputation for responsible business: and we employ some of the best utilise technology and innovation to drive safety performance, operational people in the industry.
This proven track record is built on how we integrate excellence and superior environmental practices.
sustainable development practices in everything we do and on our strong values defined by our global code of business conduct The way we work.
As industry leaders we must aspire for the highest levels of performance in all that we do.
This is why we continue to pursue our strategy of investing in and operating large, long-term, cost-competitive mines and businesses.
From the iron ore of the Pilbara to the steel that enables global growth Fe 6 riotinto.
com Our strategic framework Vision Strategy Strategic drivers Our vision is to be the leading global mining and To invest in and operate large, long-term, Five strategic drivers are helping us deliver our metals company.
cost-competitive mines and businesses, strategy and achieve our vision see list below.
driven by the quality of each opportunity.
Key performance indicators Achievement of our strategy and goals is measured by a mixture of financial and non-financial performance indicators, a number of which are linked to executive remuneration.
Underlying earnings Operating cash flows All injury frequency rate US$15.5bn 2010: US$14.0bn US$27.4bn 2010: US$23.5bn per 200,000 hours worked 0.67 2010: 0.69 Net debt Capital expenditure US$8.5bn 2010: US$4.1bn US$12.3bn 2010: US$4.6bn Greenhouse gas GHG emissions intensity 3.8 per cent down from 2008 Total shareholder return 31.8 per cent 2010: 33.2 per cent Find more information on our key performance indicators online at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2011 Our strategic drivers Financial and operational excellence Licence to operate In planning, developing, operating and marketing our products, we use As external stakeholders increase their expectations of us, our work in the ourindustry knowledge and experience to maximise returns.
We use our area of sustainable development will be essential to building our licence skills to manage our portfolio, acquiring undervalued assets or, through to operate.
This means we must work more effectively with host governments prudent divestments, capturing value from assets that no longer fit with and communities to support the development of health, education, local our strategic direction.
supplier and business programmes where our operations exist.
Our licence to operate also means we protect the environment and leave a sustainable We aim for world-beating cost competitiveness and productivity.
Our work legacy when our mining is done.
in improving performance across all our operations is focused on achieving market-leading margins and returns to our shareholders.
Globalising the business There is no area of our business in which we compromise on safety.
In globalising our business we employ global standards, systems and processes that help us streamline the way we do things and increase Growth efficiencies, but not at the expense of local responsiveness.
Our aim is We seek to identify and access new projects through exploration and to develop a diverse workforce of people, cultures and skills, ensuring our establishing community-oriented presence in resource-rich regions.
Our approach is focused at the local level.
This allows the cross-pollination objective is to develop orebodies to deliver their greatest potential.
We do of ideasthat will help improve the way we do business around the world.
so in a way that delivers lasting benefits for our business, as well as host economies and communities.
Technology and innovation We seek to apply technology and innovation in all that we do to improve We seek to achieve this through acquisitions or organic growth at industrysafety, reduce our environmental impact and enhance productivity.
We are leading capital and operating costs, without compromising our existing high innovative not only in science and technology, but also in our management safety and reliability levels.
We employ scientists and engineers whose work helps protect the environment and improve the lives of those who live in the communities where we mine.
There are case studies on our strategic drivers on pages 12-21 in this review and online at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2011 2011 Annual review 7 Our business model Delivering long-term value Our business is sustainably finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
Over long-term horizons we deliver value for our shareholders and generate opportunities for the people and places where we work.
We create and preserve value through investing in and operating large-scale, Our leading proprietary technologies are aimed at maximising recovery of long-term, cost-competitive mines and businesses.
Our commitment to minerals from ore, and at making our processes as efficient as possible.
Such the highest standards of safety, sustainability and corporate governance innovations are also used to cut carbon use.
We produce materials that are of help us in our aim to be the developer of choice in all of the markets in which the right quality for our customers.
The majority of our customers are industrial we operate.
Our aim is to apply world-class technologies and processes companies that further process our products into a wide range of applications in our operations to optimise productivity, improve safety, and foster supplied to end-users in the construction and infrastructure, automotive, sustainable development.
industrial machinery and equipment, energy and consumer goods markets.
Explore and evaluate Develop Operate and market Close-down and reclamation Rio Tintos knowledgeable and We study a resource to identify the We create value through operating We integrate closure planning in the experienced exploration team have optimal development configuration.
large, long-term, cost-competitive early stages of project development.
a track record discovering large, Working with our customers we assets safely and efficiently.
We When a resource reaches the end long-life orebodies.
We evaluate prepare the market to take the employ efficient operating and ofits life, we are committed to high investment plans for the type or grade of product that will maintenance processes to reduce standards of close-down and development, operation and maximise value over the lifecycle theuse of consumables, improve reclamation.
We seek to leave marketing of our products.
operating efficiency and optimise apositive legacy of sustainable value.
We aim to employ our superior development, and ensure knowledge of market fundamentals stakeholder expectations are met.
to ensure we deliver products our customers value.
Find more information about our business model online at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2011 From the copper of the Oyu Tolgoi mine in Mongolia to the gateway of the modern world Cu 8 riotinto.
com Executive committee Leading with experience and expertise Under the leadership of our chief executive, the eleven members of our Executive committee combine their diverse knowledge and ideas to make decisions that bring our strategy to life.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1 Tom Albanese Chief executive 2 Sam Walsh AO Executive director and chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia 3 Andrew Harding Chief executive, Copper 4 Doug Ritchie Chief executive, Energy 5 Harry Kenyon-Slaney Chief executive, Diamonds & Minerals 6 Jacynthe Ct Chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan 7 Debra Valentine Group executive, Legal & External Affairs 8 Preston Chiaro Group executive, Technology & Innovation 9 Bret Clayton Group executive, Business Support & Operations 10 Hugo Bague Group executive, People & Organisation 11 Guy Elliott Chief financial officer Find information about the Executive committee online at riotinto.
com reportingcentre2011 2011 Annual review 9 Sustainable development Towards a sustainable future Our approach to sustainable development is central to The way we work, wherever we operate.
We believe it not only makes good business sense but that we have aresponsibility to future generations and all our stakeholders from employees, tocommunities, to governments.
Integral to how we work Our commitment to sustainable development drives the way we conduct The minerals and metals we produce contribute to societys needs, creating ourselves as an organisation.
In line with our Group strategy, we operate wealth to support community infrastructure, and deliver financial returns for on extended time horizons, giving us opportunities to plan, implement our shareholders.
and deliver sustainable contributions to social wellbeing, environmental Our leadership position enables us to provide the means and opportunity stewardship and economic prosperity within our strong governance systems.
todevelop new approaches to environmental and human development We also recognise it is not about what we say, but what we do.
As societys challenges confronting society, such as climate change and poverty.
We also and stakeholders expectations rise we need to align our activities and recognise we have responsibility to manage our activities, such as our future delivering on our commitments is the standard on which Rio Tinto is judged.
use of land and water, which could detract from our sustainable development We have developed and implemented a structured sustainable development goals.
Our focus on sustainable development allows us to retain a highlyframework that ensures we manage the risks, maximise the opportunities and regarded reputation that ensures we gain and maintain our licence to operate.
meet the goal of delivering our sustainable development commitments.
We believe our strong focus on sustainable development helps usmanage risks effectively, reduce environmental impacts, engage with our This framework begins with our global code of business conduct, communities, decrease operating costs, while attracting high calibre The way we work, supported by corporate policies, strategies and standards employees and delivering superior returns for our shareholders.
In short, that lay down the minimum acceptable requirements for behaviour and wesee it as a great source of our competitive advantage.
Our focus on sustainable development is a great source of competitive advantage 10 riotinto.
com  Our online report provides highlights of our sustainable development programmes across the Group and progress towards our goals and targets.
Key achievements in 2011 Key priorities for 2012 Exposure to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels was Following the six fatalities in 2011, our first priority is to eliminate any reduced by 4.3 per cent per 10,000 employees in 2011. workplace fatalities and continue to reduce incident and injury rates towards our goal of zero harm.
We remained the largest private sector employer of Indigenous Australians.
Improve the identification and evaluation of higher-consequence lowerfrequency hazards.
We retained our listing on the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones .
Continue to improve the diversity of our workforce and to focus on the health and wellbeing of employees.
Identified as the sector leader in the Natural Value Initiative analysis on biodiversity and ecosystems management.
Maintain our energy use and greenhouse gas emission reduction programmes.
Progressively rehabilitate our operational land as it comes out of use.
Continue to enhance our approach to sustainable development to ensure it remains focused on the social, environmental, economic and governance issues most relevant to delivering our business strategy.
Social wellbeing Environmental stewardship We aim to have the most effective practices in safety, health and the Taking a responsible approach to our use of water, energy and land is good for environment.
We have an ambitious growth agenda, but it is not growth the environment, but also good for business.
atallcosts: we aim to grow in the most sustainable way possible to benefit We build closure into our plans before we develop an operation and make thepeople who work for us and the communities in which we operate.
amajor contribution to creating a sustainable economic legacy when our Our Simandou Communities team in Guinea has received international mining operations cease.
recognition for their work in the communities that surround our iron ore Water is an issue in the arid Pilbara in Western Australia.
In 2011 the team was awarded the prestigious Global Business US$310 million to assure a sustainable water supply for our iron ore operations.
Coalition Health, Business Action on Health Award for furthering the prevention of malaria and HIV AIDS in the local communities.
As people and governments concentrate on the impact of economic volatility, the issue of carbon emissions should not be overlooked.
For us it remains akey environmental and business imperative.
About half our energy use is Prosperity and the future self generated.
Two thirds of that is from renewable hydroelectricity generation Our work in more than 40 countries around the world means we can be or nuclear power plants.
Our aim remains to reduce our greenhouse gas acatalyst for economic prosperity.
One of the ways we do this is to engage emissions by ten per cent by 2015. local businesses to supply our operations.
In Canada, we have trialled new opportunities to help smaller local suppliers work with large companies.
At the Diavik Diamond Mine in Canadas Northwest Territories we are Weinvited six businesses from the small town of Kitimat, British Columbia, constructing a wind farm to reduce the amount of diesel we use.
Initially four tomeet with 20 businesses in Quebec who were already servicing RioTinto turbines will reduce our diesel use by approximately four million litres a year, Alcan smelters.
The plan was to facilitate partnership between the about ten per cent of our total diesel consumption.
The wind farm will also  suppliers in Quebec and the Kitimat suppliers.
reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 12,000 tonnes, or six per cent of total emissions.
From the earliest stages of development, we employ from the local community, engage local suppliers and we help finance businesses that will maintain economic activity when our mines have closed.
Under our Mongolia First initiative at our Oyu Tolgoi operation, over US$1 billion has been spent with local suppliers, and US$1.2 million in micro-lending is supporting local businesses across South Gobi.
This seed money will allow the creation of businesses that serve the local community.
2011 Annual review 11 Business review Aluminium Operating highlights Growth using innovation Rio Tinto Alcan is committed to growing sustainably, focusing on high-return 2011 2010 US$ million US$ million production capacity increases and modernisation projects that leverage renewable, low-cost hydroelectric power.
We aim to have the best bauxite Revenue 12,159 11,313 position in the industry.
After the recent portfolio change, almost 85 per cent Operating cash flow 1,216 1,225 of the groups energy is hydroelectric and in the lowest cost quartile for power.
Underlying earnings 442 611 Furthermore, its technological capabilities continue to create value from sales, Capital expenditure 1,957 963 faster operational improvements and lower costs on new projects.
Net operating assets 26,204 30,815 The group also has a significant modernisation project under way at the Figures for 2011 and restated figures for 2010 exclude assets identified for Kitimat smelter in Canada.
Once complete in 2014 it is expected to be one of divestment or closure.
These assets are now managed by the Rio Tinto Business the lowest-cost smelters in the world, delivering increased capacity.
by self-generated hydroelectricity, it will use AP40 technology to cut total emissions by about half.
A versatile commodity There is more to aluminium than recyclable beverage cans and cooking foil.
Outlook Our customers represent a wide variety of industries and continue to innovate as more end-products make use of aluminiums exceptional qualities.
In While the short-term economic outlook is volatile, we are confident that the electricity transmission its light weight makes it cost effective to install, while fundamentals of the industry recognise aluminiums advantages in power its conductivity helps save energy.
Its corrosion resistance and strength make generation, transport, consumer electronics, packaging and construction, it versatile and appealing to builders and the transportation industry, where particularly in emerging economies.
These fundamentals are expected to ithelps reduce downstream greenhouse gas emissions.
Aluminium can be underpin growth in demand of about six per cent a year until 2020. infinitely recycled so its products also have a more sustainable lifecycle.
The current economic environment has been particularly challenging for Our priorities for 2012 the aluminium industry.
The annual impairment review of the aluminium Continued focus on improving our safety record.
businesses resulted in a goodwill impairment charge of US$6.6 billion for To build on significant improvements already made to our business Rio Tinto Alcan.
This was largely a result of the current economic environment andcost structures.
and related market volatility in aluminium prices in the second half of 2011, leading to declines in market values for aluminium assets.
To leverage our industry-leading, proprietary technology and strong hydropower position to achieve the lowest cost carbon footprint in Our focus has been on optimising our position for when the markets improve.
We are aiming to secure our place as the lowest-cost producer in the To increase the groups long position in both bauxite and alumina aluminium industry and build a portfolio of modern mines, refineries, and and supply Chinas growing raw material needs.
smelters supported by clean energy sources.
Aluminium production was broadly consistent year-on-year.
Rio Tinto Alcan expects to benefit in the long term from its low-cost structure, sustainable transformation savings, and its position as an integrated producer throughout the value chain bauxite, alumina, and aluminium.
The Aluminium groups portfolio was restructured in October 2011, resulting in the creation of Pacific Aluminium.
The assets comprising Pacific Aluminium have been identified for divestment.
We are currently working to deliver another US$1 billion of EBITDA and increase margins to 40 per cent.
This will be driven by disciplined portfolio management, business improvement initiatives and strategic investments.
com Reducing our carbon footprint AP60 and Kitimat We incorporate innovation, technology and a responsible approach to climate change into all our major projects.
Two of our Canadian projects are great illustrations of this approach.
Our AP60 project in Quebecs  region is the first commercial-scale implementation of our energy-efficient smelting technology that we developed and patented.
The AP60 is designed to deliver 40 per cent higher output per pot and 15 per cent higher labour productivity compared to current industry norm.
When the first phase of the project is completed in 2013 it will produce 60,000 tonnes of aluminium per year.
That is expected to rise to 450,000 tonnes a year under plans we have for expanding capacity.
Modernisation of our Kitimat smelter in British Columbia is transformational.
Scheduled for completion in 2014 the plant will be powered by clean, renewable energy from our wholly-owned Kemano hydroelectric facility.
Kitimat will also be installing AP40 smelting technology that will boost capacity by 48 per cent, while dramatically reducing our emissions.
Both projects illustrate how, by applying innovation and technology, we can align a low carbon footprint with the achievement of commercial, competitive advantage that delivers significant value.
Technology and innovation are integral to aluminium production: from environmentally friendly hydropower to creating lighter, energy efficient engine blocks.
One of the dams in our British Columbia hydropower system used to power the Kitimat smelter 2011 Annual review 13 Business review Copper The metal of all 4,700 medals for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Operating highlights Games will be sourced from Kennecott Utah Copper in Salt Lake City, US, and 2011 2010 Oyu Tolgoi in Mongolia.
US$ million US$ million The economic benefit to Mongolia through our Oyu Tolgoi project has already Revenue 7,634 7,797 been significant.
During construction, US$8 million is being spent per day, and Operating cash flow 3,134 4,125 10,000 local people are being employed.
Once in operation, it is expected that Underlying earnings 1,932 2,530 the Mongolian economy will be more than a third 36 per cent larger by 2019 Capital expenditure 3,784 990 because of the Oyu Tolgoi project supported by a massive programme of Net operating assets 12,094 7,718 social, educational, training and infrastructural investment in collaboration with Rio Tinto Copper see panel, right.
Bringing copper to life Outlook High-grade copper ore is one of the most challenging materials to extract, often located in the worlds remotest and toughest environments.
Yet it is also As the worlds leading economies continue to urbanise and industrialise, one of our most sought-after commodities essential to the electrical goods refined copper demand will increase by an additional 6.5 million tonnes by and technologies that drive modern life.
2020 to around 25.5 million tonnes of which around 19 million tonnes will be met by mined copper with the remainder being supplied from scrap.
Over the past 12 months, Rio Tinto Copper has reinforced its position in the market with an exciting number of growth opportunities.
Focusing on large, long-life operations, our portfolio comprises interests in many of the worlds largest and most productive copper mines.
From the wholly-owned Kennecott Our priorities for 2012 Utah Copper, which provides about 25 per cent of US copper and molybdenum Continue working collaboratively towards a goal of zero harm.
supply and provides more than 17 per cent of US refined copper requirements, Continue to invest in innovative technologies and optimise operating to a 30 per cent share in Escondida in the Atacama desert in Chile the worlds assets with advances in safety and productivity.
Contribute to sustainable development through collaboration with local governments, communities and non-government organisations.
Advancing innovation Focus on high-quality growth projects.
Continue to bring together the talent, ideas and leadership that can We continue to invest extensively in leading-edge technologies both to deliver growth and shareholder value.
advance the efficiency and safety of our mining processes and to reduce our Progress the Oyu Tolgoi project, preparing for the first commercial environmental impact.
In Northparkes, New South Wales, Australia, and at production in 2013.
Kennecott, we are working to develop new tunnel boring systems that could decrease the time it takes to construct an underground mine by 40 per cent.
Meanwhile at Kennecott work has also begun to convert 100 megawatts of coal power to natural gas.
Trials of alternative fuel vehicles, best-in-class lighting technologies and new means of equipment optimisation are all being employed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Sustainable development Our work at Oyu Tolgoi in the South Gobi region of Mongolia is setting new benchmarks in sustainable and social partnership.
Oyu Tolgoi will be a top ten copper producer and a significant gold producer, with the potential to provide industrial-scale quantities of copper and gold for at least 50 years.
com Supporting development of a21st Century Mongolia The biggest advances in mining can be measured by what goes on above ground as well as what happens below it.
The Oyu Tolgoi project in the South Gobi desert iscreating a blueprint for economic and social collaboration that offers a sustainable legacy for generations of Mongolians far beyond the mines predicted 50-year lifespan.
The largest employment training effort in Mongolian history will enable 90 per cent of the workforce to be drawn from the local population.
Avast infrastructure programme, including a new airport, two new Mining Schools of Excellence, a 70km new water pipeline, 100km of new roads, plus an enhanced electricity supply stand to advance living standards across the region.
Under our Mongolia First initiative over US$1 billion has been spent with local suppliers, and US$1.2 million in micro-lending is supporting local businesses across South Gobi.
But while the economic legacy of Oyu Tolgoi will be significant, we aim to ensure its environmental impact will be minimal.
A participatory environmental monitoring programme is being run in cooperation with local government, herders and non-government organisations.
Biodiversity experts are advising on wildlife protection strategies.
The project is implementing water efficiency techniques that will ensure Oyu Tolgoi has one of the most stringent water-conservation practices of any mine worldwide.
This work is complemented by substantial initiatives aimed at community health and protecting the countrys rich cultural heritage.
Investing for growth in Mongolia will bring products like copper transmission wire to other rapidly urbanising and industrialising emerging economies.
P. Batzaya standing a rigger, and U. Erdenetsogt an operator, in the open pit mine of the Oyu Tolgoi project 2011 Annual review 15 Business review Diamonds & Minerals Operating highlights Outlook Demand for diamonds and industrial minerals typically follows peak 2011 2010 US$ million US$ million requirements for commodities such as iron ore and copper.
The medium to long-term fundamentals for the diamond market are positive.
The global Revenue 3,220 3,035 mineral reserve base is steadily declining, compounded by limited exploration Operating cash flow 333 598 investment and success, and expected supply reductions over the medium to Underlying earnings 252 328 long-term.
Demand in India and China will continue to grow, and is forecast Capital expenditure 639 300 torepresent some 20 per cent of diamond consumption by 2012 and around Net operating assets 3,605 4,580 40percent by 2020.
We anticipate demand in mature markets to grow in line with gross domestic product.
Diamonds, borates and titanium dioxide have much in common.
Demand for Industrial mineral fundamentals are expected to strengthen in line with our products is linked to rising standards of living manifested by better diets, urbanisation trends and demand growth in emerging markets.
We are well more energy efficient homes, and higher discretionary spending on everything placed to benefit from improved titanium dioxide market conditions through from diamond jewellery to flat screen televisions.
our commercial strategy and expansion plans.
In the borate market, we will Amongst multiple other uses borates are used by our customers to make seek to capture profitable growth in emerging economies and maintain our fibreglass, glass, ceramics, fertilisers and wood preservatives.
Titanium dioxide position in established markets.
is the worlds main white pigment in the coatings and plastics industry.
Being non-toxic and biologically inert it can also be used as a strong, lightweight material for hip and knee replacements.
Our priorities for 2012 To continue making safety our most important value.
Solid performance in volatile markets To improve our existing businesses operational and commercial The group businesses serve a range of different industries, but are linked performance.
through their track record of creating and defining new and profitable markets To build capacity by executing growth projects within existing assets.
The product groups earnings of US$252 million were To grow our portfolio through value-adding exploration and acquisitions.
Excluding the effects of a US$79 million tax Move towards more flexible titanium dioxide pricing terms.
benefit in 2010, underlying earnings were slightly higher than the previous year.
The group benefited from higher prices stemming from improved market conditions across all products.
This was offset by lower volumes and increased costs, primarily in the diamonds business, due to the transition to underground mining at our Argyle mine and severe weather conditions.
Growing the portfolio The Diamonds & Minerals group has an exciting array of growth opportunities across the world.
In 2011, we re-entered the potash business through an exploration joint venture with North Atlantic Potash Inc. a subsidiary of JSC Acron, a world leader in fertiliser production.
Development also progressed at the groups Jadar lithium-borate deposit in Serbia.
If developed the deposit has the potential to supply more than 20 per cent of global lithium demand.
In addition, we are continuing pre-feasibility studies at our Bunder diamond project in India and developing our Argyle underground diamond mine in Australia.
com Commitment to ecological restoration Since 1977 Richards Bay Minerals has mined heavy minerals from the coastal dunes of KwaZulu-Natal.
Post-mining dune rehabilitation restores to the mined lands a combination of native coastal dune forest one-third of the land and cash crop trees for local communities.
A proactive approach is employed to restore the native forest.
Topsoils are first moved from pre-mining areas to post-mining areas.
The natural inventory of seeds in the soil sprouts rapidly-growing, short-lived trees which quickly blanket the dunes.
As these trees mature then die, they are gradually replaced by a diverse range of plants.
Independent studies by the Coastal Ecology Research Unit of the University of Pretoria follow the development of differently-aged rehabilitation parcels to understand and evaluate progress.
Forest soils, trees, millipedes, birds and small mammals all show an impressive restoration ofbiodiversity.
The ecological trajectories are complex, but the data show that a forest approaching the structural and functional biodiversity of undisturbed forest patches in the region develops after about 30 years.
The rehabilitation effort demonstrates the value ofRBMs long-term commitment to ecological restoration and the power of its local science partnerships in evaluating success.
At Richards Bay Minerals, as we extract minerals containing titanium dioxide, used in paint pigment, we are restoring native trees and sand dunes and renewing our licence to operate.
Lake Nhlabane, a small estuary nestled safely in the midst of RBMs rehabilitated dune forests 2011 Annual review 17 Business review Energy During 2011 we completed the acquisition of Riversdale, which has now been Operating highlights renamed Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique.
This provides a substantial Tier 1 coking 2011 2010 coal development pipeline in the emerging Moatize Basin.
We also completed US$ million US$ million the acquisition of Hathor in Canada.
This encouraging uranium exploration Revenue 7,327 5,652 and development opportunity is in one of the highest grade uranium basins Operating cash flow 2,019 2,463 in the world.
Underlying earnings 1,074 1,187 Capital expenditure 1,327 685 Sustainable development Net operating assets 8,164 3,694 We are committed to a future where energy is about sustainable practices thatwill minimise global carbon emissions.
Initiatives and projects at each Even under the most ambitious climate change scenarios, the International operation are helping us to reduce energy use and greenhouse gas emissions, Energy Agency forecasts global energy demand will increase by more than and the group continues to dedicate resources to the development of 20 per cent by 2035.
Growth will be dominated by Asia, where urbanisation low-emissions coal technology.
and industrialisation are driving the demand for our products.
Access to energy can transform lives and the electricity generated by the products Outlook weproduce is playing a role in alleviating poverty in developing countries.
Increasing prosperity, urbanisation and industrialisation in large developing countries, such as China and India, will continue to drive global demand Strong earnings in a challenging environment growth for energy in the coming decades.
Our energy business faced a number of challenges in 2011 in particular While uranium is a much smaller source of energy than coal, it remains severe wet weather in Australia which constrained supply of uranium and coal, significant in the global energy mix, and there are expectations demand will and the Japanese tsunami which impacted demand for uranium.
The Groups Australian coal operations were impacted by severe weather For many countries energy diversification is the key to their energy security.
events which saw all four Queensland mines declare force majeure in Coal will continue to be an important baseload fuel for decades to come.
However, favourable pricing in 2011 contributed to underlying Nuclear energy also provides energy security with the added benefit of no earnings of US$1.24 billion for Rio Tinto Coal Australia an increase of greenhouse gas emissions.
For these reasons we are confident about the 32 per cent on the previous year.
Coal production is set to increase in 2012 demand outlook for both coal and uranium.
through expanded capacity at our existing operations, the ongoing ramp-up of the Clermont Mine and productivity benefits from a significant business improvementprogramme.
Our priorities for 2012 Energy Resources of Australia was also severely affected by the third Maintain our focus on safety and our goal of zero harm.
ERA raised A$500 million via an accelerated To continue safely supplying the worlds growing energy needs through renounceable entitlement offer to progress strategic projects around the sustainable development and operation of large-scale, long-life, exploration and water management.
With a view to improving reliability and cost-competitive assets.
increasing production, the Rssing mine in Namibia completed and began Improve productivity by eliminating waste and duplication across implementing a major business improvement diagnostic in 2011. our business.
Continue to grow our world class portfolio of energy assets through the Significant growth options development of the recently acquired Hathor and Riversdale projects Our Energy group is now entering a new phase, with many prospects for and increasing production at existing operations.
value-adding growth to meet expanding long-term global energy demand, while continuing to focus on operational excellence, community engagement, and environmental performance.
Our coal and uranium operations in Australia and Africa have expansion projects in either evaluation or execution phase.
com Powering the world Our new coal business, Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM, gives us the opportunity to develop African talent for future generations.
Our strategic investment in the highly prospective Moatize Basin in Mozambique gives us access to one of the largest undeveloped coking coal regions in the world and underlines our commitment toAfrica.
Our aim is to continue to grow and add value to this asset while contributing to the local economy and improving the wellbeing of people in the localcommunities.
As part of our community investment were providing training and employment.
RTCM is committed to continuing the work at the training centre which was originally established by the previous owner Riversdale in Tete in 2009.
Community members have been registering at the training centre, and as at January 2012, 1,731 people have received training with 60 gaining employment at our operations.
Providing local people with challenging work and development opportunities means our employees and future leaders will truly represent the increasingly diverse regions and cultures in which we operate.
Global demand for energy is expected to grow incoming decades.
Through the development ofMozambiques massive coal reserves we can help meet that demand and contribute to thetransformation of the countrys economy.
Globalising the business in Rio Tinto means bringing training to Mozambique whose coal will bring light and power to countries in other parts of the world.
Trainees at Rio Tintos Training Centre in Tete, Mozambique 2011 Annual review 19 Business review Iron Ore Operating highlights Driving innovation We are the owner of the worlds largest fleet of autonomous trucks after we 2011 2010 US$ million US$ million signed a memorandum of understanding to buy at least 150 from Komatsu Limited over the next four years.
The new trucks will be used in our Pilbara Revenue 29,909 24,024 iron ore mines but can be managed from our Operations Centre in Perth up Operating cash flow 21,486 15,976 to1,500 kilometres away.
This will further improve the reliability andefficiency Underlying earnings 12,853 10,189 of the supply chain from the mine to our customers.
The move follows the Capital expenditure 4,757 1,716 successful trial of driverless trucks and represents a 15-fold expansion from Net operating assets 13,368 11,628 the previous plan to double the fleet to ten trucks.
Iron ore is required in a variety of applications around the world, from Outlook household appliances to the steel used to build the cities of the future.
Global supply of iron ore has struggled to keep pace with growing customer Ironore from our mines helps build global growth.
Despite eurozone challenges and a softening in steel markets we remain confident that continued investment in housing, infrastructure and Significant expansion industrial equipment, which are the main end-use markets for iron ore, will The iron ore business delivered an impressive performance in 2011, with a support demand in major markets.
Our significant expansion programmes record year of production and shipments at our world-class Australian Pilbara inthe Pilbara, Australia and in Simandou, Guinea in West Africa are based on operations.
This has underpinned the highest ever operating cash flow and the premise that our customer base and the overall long-term demand will underlying earnings performance for the product group.
These results remain strong, despite current global volatility.
are the more impressive, given weather disruptions and a significant expansion programme.
Our priorities for 2012 The further expansion of the Pilbaras output is progressing as planned and To improve our safety record.
wehave accelerated one of the most exciting iron ore growth projects in the world.
The Simandou project in Guinea is moving forward towards its first Maintain close control of capital and operating costs to protect margins.
Implement expansion while producing at or above nameplate capacity.
Achieve a portfolio of alternative contract and pricing methodologies On the marketing front, changes in market conditions advanced our move across different markets and customers to better suit their requirements to a more diversified and flexible sales pricing portfolio.
In line with broader and manage more volatile market conditions.
markets, the second half of the year saw high levels of volatility in iron ore pricing.
This led to a shift to shorter-term pricing on our sales portfolio, with around 60 per cent of our customers moving away from the quarterly lagged price.
Our aim is to continue working closely with our customers to align our resource base with customer needs and ensure the high value of our products is recognised by the market.
com Remote mining The International Space Station is controlled from Mission Control centres back on Earth, some 400 kilometres away.
Rio Tintos Operations Centre in Perth, can control autonomous trucks, trains and mining equipment in our vast Pilbara operations in Western Australia from nearly four times the distance of the space station, some 1,500 kilometres away.
In the highly competitive markets in which our products are sold, Rio Tinto needs to constantly strive for operational and financial efficiency.
The technical demands, the distance, the cost, the heat, aridity and the fatigue of working in such conditions have lent themselves to a major initiative aimed at improving the way we work.
Our revolutionary Mine of The Future project involves harnessing innovation and technology to give us a competitive edge.
Our controllers operate the driverless, intelligent truck fleet, load and supervise the blending of ore, delivery of product to the ports and the loading of ships.
In 2014 our first driverless trains will carry ironore to our ports.
The benefits include enhanced employee health and safety: technical efficiencies to achieve better use of equipment: reduced materials and energy use: and reduced impact on the environment.
Ourcustomers also benefit from the improved efficiency, not least from our ability to process anddeliver far more ore within scheduling and technical specification requirements.
The operations centre in Perth helps bring financial and operational excellence to our iron ore mines feeding construction and infrastructure in growing economies.
200 staff in our Perth Operations Centre control our integrated network of mines, rail, power and ports in the Pilbara 2011 Annual review 21 Board of directors Upholding our strong governance systems Rio Tintos board comprises the chairman, three executive directors and ten non-executive directors 1 Jan du Plessis 1 2 Chairman 2 Tom Albanese Chief executive 3 Sam Walsh AO Executive director and chief executive Iron Ore and Australia 4 Guy Elliott Chief financial officer 5 Robert Brown Non executive 3 6 Vivienne Cox Non executive 7 Michael Fitzpatrick Non executive 4 8 Ann Godbehere Non executive 9 Richard Goodmanson Non executive 10 Andrew Gould 5 6 Non executive 11 Lord Kerr of Kinlochard Non executive 12 Christopher Lynch Non executive 13 Paul Tellier 7 8 Non executive 14 John Varley 9 10 Non executive 11 12 13 14 Detailed information on the board of directors can be found online at riotinto.
com Summary corporate governance report Progress against our priorities What we said Prioritise value-adding growth, and opportunistic merger and acquisition activity: Letter from the chairman Support the vision of global sector leadership through regular review and oversight of Group strategy: Dear Shareholder, Review financial and non-financial performance metrics To achieve our vision of global leadership in the mining and metals sector, we must maintain the highest to maintain a strong balance sheet: standards of corporate governance.
In the section that follows, we focus on our corporate governance Lead succession planning for the board and senior framework and practice, provide you with further details about the board and explain how it carries out its executives: responsibilities to safeguard the Groups assets.
I hope this will demonstrate to you that the way in which Strive for excellence in the Groups governance processes we conduct our business supports our strategic aim of creating long-term, sustainable returns to you, and policies, including risk governance: and our shareholders.
Deliver year-on-year improvement in safety performance.
In this letter, I wanted to share with you my views on the composition of the board, its continued evolution, What we have achieved Organic growth programme continues to ramp up whilst the importance we place on diversity, and on sound and effective corporate governance, which I see as acquisitions completed have created further growth fundamental to the successful delivery of our strategy.
options: My role as non-executive chairman is to lead the board and to ensure it is focused on its oversight of Major projects progressing well with phased approach to management and the delivery of our strategy.
Tom Albaneses role, as chief executive, is to focus on sustained allocating cash for investment through the cycle: operational excellence and growth of the business and to do so safely.
Our roles are complementary, but Disciplined capital approval process resulting in importantly, they are distinct, with our respective responsibilities set out in writing and in a form which has US$16billion capital expenditure approved for 2012: been approved by the board.
High quality Tier 1 projects in advanced study: Keen focus on the Groups risks, increasing oversight and For me, the delineation between these executive and non-executive roles is crystal clear: the non-executives review of key risks by board and committees: have oversight of the executive management team whilst the executive, under Toms leadership, have an Secured an enhanced mix of experience on the operational role based upon our vision of leadership in the mining and metals sector.
The non-executive boardthrough the appointments of Chris Lynch and directors nevertheless exercise a strong and deliberately challenging role in the board decision-making JohnVarley in 2011: process and ensure appropriate control mechanisms are in place to safely implement our strategy and plans.
Overall good progress against key indicators in 2011.
Regrettably there were fatalities in controlled operations: With me as chairman, the board comprises three executive directors and ten independent non-executive Delivered continued improvements in safety in terms of directors, all of whom meet our own independence criteria, which are in turn based upon the requirements injury frequency rates: and of the corporate governance codes in the UK, the US and Australia.
Achieved balance sheet flexibility allowing the Group to We are a balanced and diverse board.
The directors bring with them truly international experience from a wide pursue further economic growth and or mergers and range of professional, business and public office backgrounds.
For Rio Tinto, diversity embraces a range of acquisitions.
different measures, including, of course, gender diversity.
We have adopted a diversity and inclusion policy with What are our priorities measurable objectives for achieving diversity across the company, including on the board.
More information Succession on this policy is set out in this report.
Review executive succession planning under the leadership of the Nominations committee.
When I was appointed three years ago I made it clear that one of my objectives was to gradually and Performance systematically refresh the board.
Since then our Nominations committee, which I chair, has dedicated Optimal application of human resources: considerable attention to succession planning, both non-executive and executive.
The composition of the Leadership in mine operations, profitability and value board has changed considerably in this period.
It will continue to evolve as we constantly review the profile, accretive growth: skill sets, diversity and individual qualities of our non-executives against the current and future needs of the Maintaining strength in the balance sheet: business and the ever-changing environment in which we operate.
Delivery on existing commitments without losing sight ofcredible alternatives: Your board devotes much of its time to reviewing, debating and challenging proposals for investment from Addressing the performance challenges within RioTinto management, as well as dealing with a wide range of other issues including safety, the Groups strategic Alcan: and direction, monitoring business performance, optimising capital allocation and expenditure whilst carefully Continued drive for improvements in safety performance.
evaluating the wide range of risks facing the business.
As you will read in the sections that follow, the board Strategy committees, under the effective leadership of their respective chairs, carry out important and demanding Enhanced economic scenario planning: roles on the boards behalf and facilitate the embedding of effective governance across the organisation.
An asset allocation strategy focusing on the relative As they typically come from a wide range of backgrounds, we provide new board members with a detailed merits of dividend capital management versus M&Agrowth: and induction programme and extensive training.
I also lead a rigorous evaluation exercise of the performance of Weather the current economic weakness and volatility the directors each year and having just completed this for 2011, I am very comfortable with the contribution and capitalising on opportunities, as and when these each member of the board is making.
Resulting from that evaluation, I also support the need for continuous arise.
improvement and the desire for a renewed focus on the Groups strategic position relative to its peers, as well People as how we will deal with the growing human resource and productivity challenges facing the sector generally.
Globalising the business in relation to employee diversity I believe that our non-executive directors cannot make an effective contribution without the familiarisation and and ensuring host country employee representation: and deeper understanding gained through site visits.
So in 2011, the directors visited our operations in the Pilbara, Embedding values, ethics and governance.
Western Australia: and our coal operations in Queensland, Australia.
Future visits are planned to the Groups Diversity new operations in Mozambique, and to our established operations in South Africa.
Indeed, of the eight board In leading a global mining and metals company, meetings held in 2011 five were in the UK, two in Australia and one in Canada.
the board seeks to continually evolve its membership by seeking non-executive directors with diverse and We want to ensure we have people on your board for whom corporate governance is not simply a set of rules: complementary skills and perspectives, as well as we need those who are also willing to embrace it openly and appreciate how we want the Group to be managed experience which reflects the geographic spread of the in the interests of all our stakeholders.
Good governance is, in essence, at the heart of everything we do.
Core skills required for non-executive membership of the board are maintained.
These skills may, I would welcome your feedback.
depending upon the circumstances, comprise international Yours sincerely, business, financial or public policy experience, strategic acumen or mining or metals industry experience.
The board aspires to increase other aspects of diversity, including the gender diversity, of directors in order to bring a diversity of skills, experience and perspective to the governance of the Group.
The board recognises that the evolution of the mix of skills and diversity is a long-term process and weighs the various factors relevant to board Jan du Plessis balance and diversity when vacancies arise.
Chairman 2011 Annual review 23 Summary remuneration report Our remuneration strategy is based on the principles of aligning remuneration Letter from the Remuneration committee chairman arrangements with strategic business objectives, empowering employees by Dear Shareholder, differentiating top performers, whilst achieving simplicity and transparency in As the new chairman of the Remuneration committee, I am pleased to the design and communication of remuneration arrangements.
introduce our summary remuneration report for 2011.
The summary report For the purposes of assessing the appropriate level of executive remuneration, seeks to provide you with the necessary information to demonstrate the link the Committee references the FTSE30 excluding financial services between our Groups strategy, its performance, and the remuneration for the companies.
The FTSE30 is considered the most relevant comparator group as executive directors.
For more detailed information please see the full it comprises organisations broadly comparable to the Group in terms of global remuneration report which is available on the Groups website.
reach, revenue, market capitalisation and complexity.
Additional references In writing to you, I am fully aware of the strength of feeling which the subject are also made to other relevant supplementary comparator groups.
of executive remuneration provokes: and Im aware too that many of our Typically, base salaries will be positioned at the median of these comparator shareholders have registered their concerns through their votes on the groups, with total remuneration positioned across the full market range remuneration report at recent annual general meetings.
Both the board and according to individual and business performance.
the Remuneration committee have reflected very carefully on this.
I realise that the decisions made by the Committee will not always please all our Base salary increases in 2012 owners: if we seek perfect consensus among shareholders, Im afraid we will Base salaries are reviewed annually, with reference to: underlying Group seek in vain.
But we are conscious of our obligation to be as accessible to you andindividual performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, as we can so that, on behalf of the board, I hear your views, and try to answer an assessment against relevant comparator groups, and base salary budgets your questions: and in so doing, carry those opinions into our decision-making applying to the broader employee population.
Since my appointment I have met a number of major shareholders in the UK and in Australia and this process has been invaluable to me in The base salary increases shown below for Tom Albanese and Guy Elliott understanding shareholders perspectives on legacy and current issues.
were below the average for Rio Tinto employees in the UK and the increase for Sam Walsh was below the average for Rio Tinto employees in Australia.
Reflecting shareholder feedback, we will be bringing to our 2013 annual general meetings proposals relating to the future structure of our incentive Base salary plans.
We intend to consult widely on these proposals and on the broader stated in 000 2012 2011 % change remuneration context, particularly during 2012, so that by the time we make Tom Albanese 1,056 1,030 2.5 our recommendations to you in 2013, we will have had the benefit of the Guy Elliott 738 720 2.5 thoughts and feedback of as many major shareholders as practical.
Sam Walsh A$1,654 A$1,590 4.0 Our remuneration strategy and policies focus on using remuneration resource to help implement a successful corporate strategy that will create superior Short Term Incentive Plan STIP objectives and value for our shareholders over the long term.
We see that resource as yours: outcomes for 2011 and our endeavour is to use it wisely to promote and protect your interests.
The Committee sets tough targets for our STIP and demands that sustainable We want to use it to ensure that your company can attract, motivate and business practices are adhered to, particularly around safety.
Whilst Rio Tinto retain the high quality and committed people that are critical to lead the delivered another record year of underlying earnings performance, STIP business.
We seek to reward employees fairly and responsibly, by providing payments are, on average lower than in 2010 as the Group did not outperform, anappropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration, the payment to the same extent, the challenging financial and safety targets set for 2011. of which is linked to the achievement of what are intended to be demanding Group and individual performance measures.
But our aim is to pay no more The Groups safety performance was disappointing.
There were six fatalities in than is necessary to achieve this goal.
The target 15 per cent reduction in the all injury frequency rate AIFR was not achieved: however near or above target results were achieved for the Whilst we delivered another record year of underlying earnings performance, other key health and safety measures.
short-term incentive payments are, on average, lower than in 2010 as the Group did not outperform to the same extent, the challenging financial and Tom Albanese and Guy Elliott notified the Remuneration committee that they safety targets set by your board for 2011.
I also acknowledge the responsibility did not wish to be considered for an annual bonus, recognising the significant shown by Tom Albanese and Guy Elliott in informing the Committee that they impairment charge in relation to our Aluminium business.
The Remuneration did not wish to be considered for an annual bonus in the light of the committees decision endorsed this request.
The committee with input from impairments in our Aluminium business.
the chief executive, assessed Sam Walshs performance against his business and individual objectives as 125.4 per cent out of a maximum 200 per cent.
Yours sincerely, Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards granted in 2011 Award levels are set so as to incentivise executives to meet the long-term strategic goals of the Group, to provide sufficient retention for the executive team and to contribute towards the competitiveness of the overall John Varley remuneration package.
The expected value of awards granted in 2011, Remuneration committee chairman based on the fair value calculations performed by independent advisers, was 190 per cent of base salary for the executive directors.
The eventual value Executive remuneration of the award will depend on performance during the years 2011-2014.
Remuneration strategy LTIP awards for 2012 Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a limited The Committee has decided that the award level in 2012 should again have pool of talented executives.
High quality people, who are capable of achieving an expected value of 190 per cent of base salary.
The eventual value of the stretching performance targets, are essential to generating superior returns award will depend on performance during the years 2012-2015. for the Group.
Our people and remuneration strategies aim to provide this support by enabling the Group to attract and retain talent that will maximise LTIP outcomes for the period ended 31 December 2011 shareholder value.
The performance shares under the Performance Share Plan PSP awarded in2008 had a four year performance period that ended on 31 December 2011.
This award did not vest for the executive directors.
com Share options under the Share Option Plan SOP granted in 2009 had a TSR US$ Rio Tinto Group vs the HSBC Global Mining and performance period that ended on 31 December 2011.
This award vested MSCI World indices in full.
Options can be exercised from 17 March 2012.
Total return basis index 2006 100 Rio Tinto DLC TSR performance graph HSBC Index MSCI World Index We reward executives for delivering shareholder value by using relative TSR 300 as the metric for determining the vesting of awards made under the PSP and SOP.
TSR is considered an appropriate performance measure for the LTIP as it captures the return delivered to shareholders over the long term and rewards 200 executives based on the Groups TSR performance against its comparators.
The choice of the HSBC Global Mining Index and the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI reflects the fact that Rio Tinto competes against a global 100 market for investors as well as within the mining sector and is consistent with rewarding executives for providing stable returns over the long term relative to the broader market and the mining sector.
0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The graph opposite illustrates the Groups TSR performance against the HSBC Global Mining Index and the MSCI over the past five years.
Total remuneration The table below provides a summary of actual remuneration for the executive directors in respect of 2009, 2010 and 2011 and is stated in the currency of payment.
This is in addition to statutory disclosure requirements set out in the full annual report which include theoretical accounting values relating to various parts of the remuneration packages, most notably LTIP arrangements.
The purpose of this table is to enable shareholders to better understand the actual remuneration received and to provide an overview of the actual outcomes of the Groups remuneration arrangements.
The table for the non-executive directors provides the details of the fees and other benefits and is reported in US dollars.
Salaries are reviewed with effect from 1 March.
b Value of STIP deferred under the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP.
c Based on the expected value of awards PSP awards are calculated to have an expected value of 65 per cent of face value, SOP awards are calculated to have an expected value of 20 per cent of face value.
d Pension or superannuation represents the value of one years pension or superannuation accrual calculated using an IAS19 methodology and assumptions on rates of investment return, inflation and salary increases and is sensitive to changes to those assumptions.
As at 31 December 2011, all executive directors were accruing retirement benefits on a defined benefit basis 2010: three directors.
Additionally, Sam Walsh was accruing additional benefits on a money purchase basis 2010: one director.
Actual contributions of A$59,000 were paid on a money purchase basis on behalf of Sam Walsh 2010: A$59,000 for one director.
Notional pension contributions to money purchase schemes were $nil 2010: $nil.
These contributions are included in Pension or Superannuation above.
e Includes health care, provision of a car and driver where applicable, and other contractual payments.
2011 Annual review 25 Summary remuneration report Executive remuneration structure Consistent with the Groups strategy, the Committee seeks to achieve a remuneration mix which best reflects the long-term nature of the business.
As such, the total remuneration package is designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable components with a focus on long-term variable pay.
Assuming on-target performance under the STIP and LTIP, approximately 75 per cent of total remuneration is at risk with the balance fixed.
The remuneration structure for executive directors, including the relationship between each element of remuneration and Group performance, is summarised below: Fixed Link to Group performance Remuneration arrangements Base salary Provides the fixed element of the Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group and remuneration package individual performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, an assessment against relevant comparator groups and base salary Reflects an employees sustained budgets applying to the broader employee population contribution to the organisation Benefits Provides locally competitive post Post employment benefit arrangements include pension or superannuation employment and other benefits and post retirement medical benefits where applicable in a cost efficient manner Other benefits include healthcare, accident insurance where applicable, provision of a car, professional advice, spouse travel, flexible perquisites and secondment costs comprising housing, education, tax equalisation and relocation payments made to andon behalf of executives living outside their home country Performance related At risk STIP Focuses participants on achieving The maximum annual bonus opportunity for outstanding performance demanding performance goals, under the STIP for executives is 200 per cent of base salary for target based onthe Groups KPIs performance, this is 120 per cent of base salary for executive directors 50 per cent of the STIP delivered Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established in cash and 50 per cent delivered for all STIP measures in order to drive high levels of business and in deferredshares individual performance.
The STIP awards for achieving these performance levels are 50 per cent, 100 per cent and 200 per cent of the STIP  The inclusion of health and safety in the STIP is a strong reminder that the safety of our employees is paramount and should not be compromised when targeting superior financial results The Committee selected the financial measures as they are KPIs used in managing the business.
The financial performance targets are established through an annual planning process, where the product group and Group plans are ultimately approved by the board.
The central case or base plan delivers what the board considers to be target performance.
Probability factors are then applied based upon a range of potential operating and cost scenarios to establish the threshold and outstanding performance levels.
These threshold and outstanding levels are approved by the Remuneration committee at the beginning of each performance year Individual objectives are tailored to each executive but are generally based on the achievement of strategic initiatives, key project deliverables and leadership competencies LTIP Rewards participants for delivering Awards have an expected value equal to 190 per cent of base salary Performance Options superior TSR performance Executives can express a preference regarding the mix of the long term SOP and Motivates individual contribution incentive opportunity between: Performance Shares while focusing individuals on the A mix of performance shares and performance options PSP collective performance Receiving their full opportunity in performance shares Three and four year performance SOP awards vest subject to the achievement of a stretching TSR periods to provide long-term alignment performance condition, comparing Rio Tintos TSR performance to that of with shareholders the HSBC Global Mining Index PSP awards vest subject to the achievement of a stretching TSR performance condition, comparing the Rio Tintos TSR performance against: 50 per cent the HSBC Global Mining Index 50 per cent the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI Executive director service contracts The directors have service contracts that can be terminated by either party with 12 months notice, or immediately by paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
If termination is a result of a redundancy, the terms of the relevant policy may apply in the same way as for other local employees.
In the case of dismissal forcause, the Company can terminate employment without notice and without payment of any salary or compensation in lieu of notice.
STIP and outstanding awards under the LTIP are forfeited in these circumstances.
com Summary financial information by business unit At 31 December This summary financial information by business unit section has been extracted from the full financial statements contained within the 2011 Annual report.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product.
The Aluminium group excludes Pacific Aluminium, Other Aluminium and the Cable division of Alcan Engineered Products which are included in Other operations.
a Gross sales revenue includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries sales revenue and the Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries.
b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Groups share of EBITDA relating to equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation and amortisation.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the same items that are excluded from Underlying earnings.
c Net earnings represent profit after tax for the period attributable to the owners of the Rio Tinto Group.
Earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units are stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related to provisions.
Earnings attributed to business units do not include amounts that are excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings.
d Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator which management uses internally to assess performance.
Underlying earnings is defined and reconciled to net earnings in note 2 of the 2011 financial statements.
e Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units.
Amounts relating to equity accounted units not specifically funded by Rio Tinto are deducted before arriving at total capital expenditure for the Group.
f Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding post retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before deducting net debt.
Operating assets are less non-controlling interests, which are calculated by reference to the net assets of the relevant companies ie net of such companies debt.
2011 Annual review 27 Summary income statement Years ended 31 December These Summary financial statements have been extracted from the full financial statements, which have been reported on by the auditors, and which will be filed with the United Kingdom Registrar of Companies and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
The auditors report of the full financial statements is unqualified and does not contain a statement under either S498 2 or S498 3 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The Summary financial statements do not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and affairs of the Group and parent companies as is provided in the full financial statements.
Copies of the 2011 Annual report and full financial statements may be obtained from the addresses shown on the outside back cover.
a Restated 2011 2010 US$m US$m Continuing operations Consolidated sales revenue 60,537 55,171 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 36,260 35,262 Impairment charges less reversals 9,174 982 Gain on consolidation and on disposal of interests in businesses 185 753 Exploration and evaluation costs 1,437 594 Profits on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 89 522 Operating profit 13,940 19,608 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 704 1,101 Impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units 592 Profit before finance items and taxation 14,052 20,709 Finance items 838 218 Profit before taxation 13,214 20,491 Taxation 6,439 5,296 Profit from continuing operations 6,775 15,195 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 10 97 Profit for the year 6,765 15,098 attributable to non-controlling interests 939 860 attributable to owners of Rio Tinto Net earnings 5,826 14,238 Basic earnings loss per share Profit from continuing operations 303.5c 731.0c Loss from discontinued operations 0.5c 4.9c Profit for the year 303.0c 726.1c Diluted earnings loss per share Profit from continuing operations 301.5c 726.7c Loss from discontinued operations 0.5c 4.9c Profit for the year 301.0c 721.8c Dividends paid during the year US$m 2,236 1,754 Dividends per share: paid during the year 117.0c 90.0c Dividends per share: declared in respect of the year 91.0c 63.0c a The Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 have been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised, following the reclassification of certain balances relating to the Consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
com Summary statement of comprehensive income Years ended 31 December Restated 2011 2010 US$m US$m Profit after tax for the year 6,765 15,098 Other comprehensive income: Currency translation adjustment 974 1,504 Currency translation on companies disposed of transferred to the income statement 46 6 Cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 223 2 Losses gains on revaluation of available for sale securities 236 215 Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 19 10 Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans 1,956 782 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted units, net of tax 48 206 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 468 253 Other comprehensive loss income for the year, net of tax 2,400 1,394 Total comprehensive income for the year 4,365 16,492 attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 3,504 15,350 attributable to non-controlling interests 861 1,142 Summary cash flow statement Years ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$m US$m Cash flow from consolidated operations 26,589 22,126 Dividends from equity accounted units 799 1,404 Cash flows from operations 27,388 23,530 Net interest paid 613 696 Dividends paid to holders of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries 548 457 Tax paid 6,197 4,100 Net cash generated from operating activities 20,030 18,277 Cash flows from investing activities a Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates 4,156 907 Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates, and assets held for sale 420 3,800 Purchase of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 12,335 4,591 Other investing cash flows 767 13 Cash used in investing activities 16,838 1,711 Cash flow before financing activities 3,192 16,566 Cash flows from financing activities Equity dividends paid to owners of Rio Tinto 2,236 1,754 Purchase of non-controlling interests 2,243 Other financing cash flows 1,053 8,856 Cash used in financing activities 3,426 10,610 Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 71 139 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 305 5,817 Opening cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 9,959 4,142 Closing cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 9,654 9,959 a Cash flows relating to the Groups purchase of its interest in Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique are allocated between investing and financing activities in accordance with the presentation requirements for staged acquisitions under IAS 7 Cash flow statements.
In the interim Financial Statements for the six months ended 30 June 2011, all cash flows relating to the purchase of interests in Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique were included within investing activities.
Comparative figures for the six months ended 30 June 2012 will be revised accordingly.
2011 Annual review 29 Summary statement of financial position At 31 December Restated 2011 2010 US$m US$m Non-current assets Goodwill 8,187 15,316 Intangible assets 7,955 5,700 Property, plant and equipment 64,967 56,024 Investments in equity accounted units 9,833 6,855 Inventories 381 375 Trade and other receivables 2,365 1,826 Deferred tax assets 1,875 1,863 Tax recoverable 74 52 Other financial assets including loans to equity accounted units 1,922 1,597 97,559 89,608 Current assets Inventories 5,307 4,756 Trade and other receivables 6,058 5,582 Tax recoverable 278 542 Other financial assets including loans to equity accounted units 585 631 Cash and cash equivalents 9,670 9,948 21,898 21,459 Assets of disposal groups held for sale 88 1,706 Total assets 119,545 112,773 Current liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities 1,447 2,416 Trade and other payables 9,381 6,570 Tax payable 2,651 2,773 Provisions including post retirement benefits 1,487 1,117 14,966 12,876 Non-current liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities 20,357 13,693 Trade and other payables 719 879 Tax payable 382 417 Deferred tax liabilities 6,210 5,222 Provisions including post retirement benefits 17,670 13,367 45,338 33,578 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 33 1,807 Total liabilities 60,337 48,261 Net assets 59,208 64,512 Capital and reserves Share capital 5,816 5,847 Reserves 46,723 52,400 Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 52,539 58,247 Attributable to non-controlling interest 6,669 6,265 Total equity 59,208 64,512 30 riotinto.
com Independent auditors statement to the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited We have examined the Summary financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group which comprise the Summary income statement, Summary statement of comprehensive income, Summary cash flow statement, Summary statement of financial position, Summary financial information by business unit and the Total remuneration information on page 25, within the accompanying 2011 Annual review the Summary financial information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the 2011 Annual review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary financial information within the 2011 Annual review with the full 2011 annual financial statements and the Remuneration report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012, and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the 2011 Annual review and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial information.
The other information comprises the items on pages 1 to 26.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for each companys members as a body in accordance with Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto plc and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the Rio Tinto Groups annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements and the Remuneration report.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary financial information is consistent with the 2011 annual financial statements and Remuneration report of the Rio Tinto Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 asamended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012, and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP  Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Chartered Accountants London Robert Hubbard Partner 5 March 2012 Brisbane In respect of the members of Rio Tinto plc 5 March 2012 In respect of the members of Rio Tinto Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional StandardsLegislation 2011 Annual review 31 Useful information Financial calendar 2012 17 January Fourth quarter 2011 operations review 9 February Announcement of results for 2011 29 February Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2011 final dividend 2 March Record date for 2011 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 6 March Record date for 2011 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 16 March Publication of 2011 Annual report, Annual review and Notices of annual general meetings 20 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the 2011 final dividend 3 April Dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing to receive pounds sterling 12 April Payment date for 2011 final dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs 17 April First quarter 2012 operations review 19 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc 10 May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited 17 July Second quarter 2012 operations review 8 August Announcement of half year results for 2012 15 August Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2012 interim dividend 17 August Record date for 2012 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 21 August Record date for 2012 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 22 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the 2012 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc 23 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the 2012 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited 6 September Dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing to receive pounds sterling 13 September Payment date for 2012 interim dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs 16 October Third quarter 2012 operations review 2013 January Fourth quarter 2012 operations review February Announcement of results for 2012 32 riotinto.
com Contents 1 Highlights 2 Group overview 4 Int erview with the chairman and chief executive Cautionary statement about Registered offices Shareholders 6 Our strategy Please contact the respective registrar if you have forward-looking statements Rio Tinto plc 7 Our strategic drivers any queries about your shareholding.
This document contains certain forward looking 2 Eastbourne Terrace 8 Our business model statements with respect to the financial condition, London Rio Tinto plc 9 Executive committee results of operations and business of the Rio Tinto W2 6LG 10 Sustainable development Computershare Investor Services PLC Group.
The words intend, aim, project, Registered in England No.
719885 The Pavilions 12 Business review anticipate, estimate, plan, believes, Bridgwater Road 12 Aluminium expects, may, should, will, or similar Telephone: 44 0 20 7781 2000 Bristol 14 Copper expressions, commonly identify such forward Fax: 44 0 20 7781 1800 BS99 6ZY 16 Diamonds & Minerals looking statements.
com 18 Energy Telephone: 44 0 870 703 6364 Examples of forward looking statements in this Fax: 44 0 870 703 6119 20 Iron Ore Rio Tinto Limited Annual review include those regarding estimated 22 Board of directors ore reserves, anticipated production or Level 33 UK residents only, Freephone: 0800 435021 23 Summary corporate governance report construction dates, costs, outputs and productive 120 Collins Street Website: www.
com 24 Summary remuneration report lives of assets or similar factors.
Forward looking Melbourne Investor Centre statements involve known and unknown risks, Victoria 3000 27 Summary financial information by business unit To find out more about our Investor Centre, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors set 28 Summary financial statements ABN 96 004 458 404 go to www.
co. uk riotinto forth in this document that are beyond the Groups 31 Independent auditors statement control.
For example, future ore reserves will be Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary Receipts 32 Useful information based in part on market prices that may vary Fax: 61 0 3 9283 3707 ADRs significantly from current levels.
com View this report alongside our Annual report and Please contact the ADR administrator if you have materially affect the timing and feasibility of Sustainable development report on our website at any queries about your ADRs.
Other factors include Rio Tintos agent in the US is Cheree riotinto.
com reportingcentre2011 theability to produce and transport products Finan, who may be contacted at ADR administrator profitably, demand for our products, the effect Rio Tinto Services Inc. JPMorgan Chase & Co offoreign currency exchange rates on market 80 State Street PO Box 64504 prices and operating costs, and activities by Albany St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 governmental authorities, such as changes in New York, 12207-2543 Telephone: 1 651 453 2128 taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
US residents only, toll free general: 800 990 1135 In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially US residents only, toll free Global invest direct: different from projected future results expressed 800 428 4237 or implied by these forward looking statements Website: www.
com shareholder which speak only as to the date of this report.
com Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation Rio Tinto Limited to publicly update or revise any forward looking Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited statements, whether as a result of new GPO Box 2975 information or future events.
The Group cannot Melbourne guarantee that its forward looking statements will Victoria 3001 not differ materially from actual results.
Telephone: 61 0 3 9415 4030 Fax: 61 0 3 9473 2500 Australian residents only, toll free: 1800 813 292 New Zealand residents only, toll free: 0800 450 740 Website: www.
com Investor Centre To find out more about Investor Centre go to www.
com This document is printed by Park Communications.
Former Alcan Inc. Shareholders Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral Company and Computershare Investor Services Inc. its Environmental Management System is certified to 9th Floor ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 100 University Avenue 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and Toronto on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Ontario M5J 2Y1 This document is printed on Heaven 42: a paper sourced Canada from well managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests, and bleached using a chlorine free process.
Telephone: 1 514 982 7555 Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com North American residents only, toll free 1 866 624 1341 Website: www.
com 2011 Annual review 33 Go online for more information 2011 Annual review Visit our reporting centre at riotinto.
