122 Other matters Subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates At December 31, 2011 Incorporated within the UK held by Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Rolls-Royce Group plc Holding company Incorporated within the UK held by Rolls-Royce Group plc Rolls-Royce plc Principal trading company Incorporated within the UK indirectly held Optimized Systems and Solutions Limited Equipment health management and advanced data management services Rolls-Royce Fuel Cell Systems Limited Development of fuel cell systems Rolls-Royce International Limited International support and commercial information services Rolls-Royce Leasing Limited Engine leasing Rolls-Royce Marine Electrical Systems Limited Marine electrical systems Rolls-Royce Marine Power Operations Limited Nuclear submarine propulsion systems Rolls-Royce Power Development Limited Generation of electricity from independent power projects Rolls-Royce Power Engineering plc Energy and marine systems Rolls-Royce Total Care Services Limited Aero engine aftermarket support services Tidal Generation Limited Development of tidal generation systems The above companies operate principally in the UK and the effective Group interest is 100 per cent, other than Rolls-Royce Fuel Cell Systems Limited in which it is 80 per cent.
Incorporated overseas indirectly held Brazil Rolls-Royce Brasil Limitada Industrial gas turbines and aero engine repair and overhaul, energy and marine aftermarket support services Canada Rolls-Royce Canada Limited Industrial gas turbines and aero engine sales, service and overhaul China Rolls-Royce Marine Shanghai Limited Manufacture and supply of marine equipment Finland Rolls-Royce OY AB Manufacture of marine winches and propeller systems France Rolls-Royce Civil Nuclear SAS Instrumentation and control systems and life-cycle management for nuclear power plants France Rolls-Royce Technical Support SARL Aero engine project support Germany Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG Aero engine design, development and manufacture Guernsey Nightingale Insurance Limited Insurance services India Rolls-Royce India Private Limited Diesel engine project management and customer support India Rolls-Royce Operations India Private Limited Engineering support services Italy Europea Microfusioni Aerospaziali S. p. A.
Manufacture of gas turbine engine castings Norway Rolls-Royce Marine AS Design and manufacture of ship equipment Norway Scandinavian Electric Holding AS Marine electrical systems Singapore Rolls-Royce Singapore Pte Limited Aero engine parts manufacturing and engine assembly, energy and marine aftermarket support services Sweden Rolls-Royce AB Manufacture of marine propeller systems US Data Systems & Solutions LLC Instrumentation and control systems and life-cycle management for nuclear power plants US Optimized Systems and Solutions Inc. Equipment health management and advanced data management services US R. Brooks Associates Inc.
Specialist civil nuclear reactor services US Rolls-Royce Commercial Marine Inc. Marine aftermarket support services US Rolls-Royce Corporation Design, development and manufacture of gas turbine engines US Rolls-Royce Crosspointe LLC Manufacturing facility for aero engine parts US Rolls-Royce Energy Systems Inc. Energy turbine generator packages US Rolls-Royce Engine Services Oakland Inc. Aero engine repair and overhaul US Rolls-Royce Defense Services Inc. Aero engine repair and overhaul US Rolls-Royce Naval Marine Inc. Design and manufacture of marine equipment The above companies operate principally in the country of their incorporation and the effective Group interest is 100 per cent.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011
