117 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 22 Operating leases continued Leases as lessor 2011 2010 m m Rentals received credited within revenue from aftermarket services 36 29 Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are receivable as follows: Within one year 3 3 Between one and five years 8 10 After five years 2 3 13 16 The Group acts as lessee and lessor for both land and buildings and gas turbine engines, and acts as lessee for some plant and equipment.
Sublease payments of 3m 2010 23m and sublease receipts of 23m 2010 11m were recognised in the income statement in the year.
Purchase options exist on aero engines, land and buildings and plant and equipment with the period to the purchase option date varying between one to five years.
Renewal options exist on aero engines, land and buildings and plant and equipment with the period to the renewal option varying between one to 21 years at terms to be negotiated upon renewal.
Escalation clauses exist on some leases and are linked to LIBOR.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be made is 5m 2010 18m and sublease receipts expected to be received is 4m 2010 3m.
23 Contingent liabilities In connection with the sale of its products the Group will, on some occasions, provide financing support for its customers.
The Groups contingent liabilities relating to financing arrangements are spread over many years and relate to a number of customers and a broad product portfolio.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed on a discounted basis.
As the directors consider the likelihood of these contingent liabilities crystallising to be remote, this amount does not represent a value that is expected to crystallise.
However, the amounts are discounted at the Groups borrowing rate to reflect better the time span over which these exposures could arise.
The contingent liabilities are denominated in US dollars.
As the Group does not generally adopt cash flow hedge accounting for forecast foreign exchange transactions, this amount is reported, together with the sterling equivalent at the reporting date spot rate.
The discounted values of contingent liabilities relating to delivered aircraft and other arrangements where financing is in place, less insurance arrangements and relevant provisions, were: 2011 2010 m $m m $m Gross contingent liabilities 612 951 633 991 1 Contingent liabilities net of relevant security 124 192 121 190 2 Contingent liabilities net of relevant security reduced by 20% 201 312 200 314 1 Security includes unrestricted cash collateral of: 67 104 68 106 2 Although sensitivity calculations are complex, the reduction of relevant security by 20 per cent illustrates the sensitivity of the contingent liability to changes in this assumption.
There are also net contingent liabilities in respect of undelivered aircraft, but it is not considered practicable to estimate these as deliveries can be many years in the future, and the relevant financing will only be put in place at the appropriate time.
Contingent liabilities exist in respect of guarantees provided by the Group in the ordinary course of business for product delivery, performance and reliability.
The Group has, in the normal course of business, entered into arrangements in respect of export finance, performance bonds, countertrade obligations and minor miscellaneous items.
Various Group undertakings are parties to legal actions and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
As a consequence of the insolvency of an insurer as previously reported, the Group is no longer fully insured against known and potential claims from employees who worked for certain of the Groups UK based businesses for a period prior to the acquisition of those businesses by the Group.
While the outcome of some of these matters cannot precisely be foreseen, the directors do not expect any of these arrangements, legal actions or claims, after allowing for provisions already made, to result in significant loss to the Group.
The Groups share of equity accounted entities contingent liabilities is 68m 2010 24m.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Financial statements
