NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 Except where indicated, values in these notes are in 000.
Rotork p. l. c. is a company domiciled in England.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The accounting policies contained below in note 1 and the disclosures in notes 2 to 29 all relate to the Group financial statements.
The Company balance sheet can be found following note 29.
As the Company has elected to continue reporting under UK GAAP, the applicable accounting policies are contained in note a, and notes b to k relate to the Companys financial statements.
Accounting policies The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Rotork p. l. c. have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention subject to the items referred to in the derivative financial instruments accounting policy below.
New accounting standards and interpretations The following amendments to standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year ending 31 December 2011: IAS 24 Revised - Related Party Disclosures IFRIC 14 Amendment - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Application of these standards and interpretations has not had a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
Recent accounting developments The following standards and interpretations were issued but are not yet effective and have not been adopted as application was not mandatory for the year and in some cases not yet endorsed for use in the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 19 amendment - Employee benefits The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will not have a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the directors have considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial commitments, the significant orderbook with customers spread across different geographic areas and industries and the significant net cash position.
Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December 2011.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains or losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
ROTORK P. L. C. 58 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
