NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 Except where indicated, values in these notes are in 000.
Rotork p. l. c. is a company domiciled in England.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The accounting policies contained below in note 1 and the disclosures in notes 2 to 29 all relate to the Group financial statements.
The Company balance sheet can be found following note 29.
As the Company has elected to continue reporting under UK GAAP, the applicable accounting policies are contained in note a, and notes b to k relate to the Companys financial statements.
Accounting policies The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Rotork p. l. c. have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention subject to the items referred to in the derivative financial instruments accounting policy below.
New accounting standards and interpretations The following amendments to standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year ending 31 December 2011: IAS 24 Revised - Related Party Disclosures IFRIC 14 Amendment - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Application of these standards and interpretations has not had a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
Recent accounting developments The following standards and interpretations were issued but are not yet effective and have not been adopted as application was not mandatory for the year and in some cases not yet endorsed for use in the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 19 amendment - Employee benefits The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will not have a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the directors have considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial commitments, the significant orderbook with customers spread across different geographic areas and industries and the significant net cash position.
Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December 2011.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains or losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
ROTORK P. L. C. 58 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 1.
Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates at the dates the values were determined.
Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to sterling at rates approximating those ruling at the date of the transactions.
Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries, and from the translation of the results of those subsidiaries at average rate, are reported as an item of other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve.
Any differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to IFRS in respect of all foreign entities are not presented as a separate component.
Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods or services.
Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Groups activities.
Revenue from the sale of valve actuators, gearboxes and flow control products is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer in accordance with the contracted shipping terms.
Revenue from service work is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work performed.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated completion costs, the possible return of goods or continuing management involvement with the goods.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition, including acquisition costs and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired.
ROTORK P. L. C. 59 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Accounting policies continued Business combinations continued In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is stated at cost or deemed cost less any impairment losses.
The carrying value of goodwill is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is allocated to cash-generating units CGU.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying value of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets i Research & development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Development costs incurred after the point at which the commercial and technical feasibility of the product have been proven, and the decision to complete the development has been taken and resources made available, are capitalised.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Development expenditure has an estimated useful life of five years and is written off on a straight-line basis.
ii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The useful life of each of these assets is assessed based on discussions with the management of the acquired business and takes account of the differing natures of each of the intangibles acquired.
The assessed useful lives of intangibles acquired are as follows: Order backlog 6 months to 1 year Brands and trademarks 4 to 10 years Customer relationships 2 to 5 years Product design patents 5 to 8 years Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold land is not depreciated.
Long leasehold buildings are amortised over 50 years or the expected useful life of the building where less than 50 years.
Other assets are depreciated in equal annual instalments by reference to their estimated useful lives and residual values at the following annual rates: Freehold buildings 2% to 4% Short leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and equipment 10% to 33% Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation.
Certain items of property that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Leases Where fixed assets are financed by leasing agreements, which give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased and the capital element of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases are initially recognised at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The rentals payable are apportioned between interest, which is charged to the income statement, and liability, which reduces the outstanding obligation so as to give a constant rate of charge on the outstanding lease obligations.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease in arriving at the operating profit.
ROTORK P. L. C. 60 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 1.
Accounting policies continued Taxation Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profits.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Inventory and work in progress Inventory and work in progress is valued at the lower of cost, on a first in, first out basis, and net realisable value.
In respect of work in progress and finished goods, cost includes all production overheads and the attributable proportion of indirect overhead expenses which are required to bring inventories to their present location and condition.
The net realisable value in respect of old and slow moving inventory is assessed by reference to historic usage patterns and forecast future usage.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term with an original maturity less than three months deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand form part of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Equity Equity comprises issued equity capital, share premium, reserves and retained earnings.
When issued equity capital is repurchased, the amount paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares are debited direct to equity and shown as a deduction from retained earnings.
Provisions i Warranties A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products or services are sold.
The provision is based on historical warranty cost data, known issues and management expectations of future costs.
ii Contingent consideration The terms of an acquisition may provide that the value of the purchase consideration, which may be payable in cash at a future date, depends on uncertain future events.
Where it is not possible to estimate the amounts payable with any degree of certainty, the amounts recognised in the financial statements represent a fair value estimate at the balance sheet date of the amounts expected to be paid.
Employee benefits i Pension plans The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes and contributes to these schemes in accordance with qualified actuaries recommendations.
In respect of all actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Groups obligation in respect of the plans, these are recognised in equity.
Interest on pension scheme liabilities has been recognised within financing expenses and the expected return on scheme assets within financing income in the income statement.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
The costs for these schemes are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
ROTORK P. L. C. 61 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Accounting policies continued Employee benefits continued ii Share-based payment transactions The Rotork Share Option Scheme allows certain employees to acquire shares in Rotork p. l. c. This scheme is now closed and the last grant of new options took place in 2004.
Details of the scheme are given in note 24.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
The Rotork Sharesave Plan, introduced in 2004, offers certain employees the opportunity to purchase shares in Rotork p. l. c. at a discounted price compared with the market price at the time of grant.
The fair value of the right option is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant and maturity.
The right option reaches maturity when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled.
The fair value of the grant is measured using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the rights were granted.
The Rotork Long Term Incentive Plan grants awards of shares to executive directors and senior managers.
These awards may vest after a period of three years dependent upon both market and non-market performance conditions being met.
Details of the grants are given in note 24.
This plan gives share awards or cash awards of equivalent value to the share awards dependent upon the employees country of residence at date of grant.
The fair value of the award is measured at grant date, using a Monte Carlo simulation model which takes into account the market based performance criteria, and spread over the vesting period.
The fair value of the award is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity for the share settled award and a provision within employee benefits for the cash settled award.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to exclude options that do not vest as a result of non-market performance conditions not being met.
In the case of the cash awards, the liability is re-measured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value recognised in the income statement, spread equally over the vesting period.
iii Long-term service leave The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service leave is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
iv Other employee benefits In addition to the above schemes the Group offers a number of discretionary bonus schemes to employees around the world.
The costs of these schemes are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
This includes the Share Incentive Plan and Overseas Profit Linked Share Scheme both of which are a known liability at the year end.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses forward exchange contracts and swaps to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from operational and financing activities.
These are the only derivative financial instruments used by the Group.
In accordance with its Treasury Policy, the Group does not hold or issue contracts for trading purposes.
Forward exchange contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Forward exchange contracts are recognised initially at fair value.
Where a forward exchange contract is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised liability, a firm commitment or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the forward contract is recognised directly in equity.
Any effective cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction still is expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss held in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately.
ROTORK P. L. C. 62 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 1.
Accounting policies continued Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are listed below: i Impairment of goodwill Determining whether Goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of CGUs to which Goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash flows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values.
Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year are in note 11. ii Valuation of acquired intangible assets Acquisitions may result in customer relationships, brands and trademarks, product design patents and order backlogs being recognised.
These are valued using discounted cash flows and relief from royalty methods.
In applying these methodologies certain key judgements and estimates are required to be made in respect of future cash flows.
Details of the accounting policies are shown earlier in this note and the carrying value of the acquired intangible assets are shown in note 11. iii Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires judgement in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
These include future mortality, discount rate, inflation and salary increases.
Management makes these judgements in consultation with an independent actuary.
Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year are in note 23.
ROTORK P. L. C. 63 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
