GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC INFORMATION 101 - 103 We have audited the financial statements Opinion on financial statements the parent company financial of Rotork p. l. c. for the year ended 31 In our opinion: statements and the part of the December 2011 set out on pages 54 the financial statements give a true and Directors Remuneration Report to be to 100.
The financial reporting framework fair view of the state of the groups and audited are not in agreement with the that has been applied in the preparation of the parent companys affairs as at accounting records and returns: or of the group financial statements is 31 December 2011 and of the groups certain disclosures of directors applicable law and International Financial profit for the year then ended: remuneration specified by law are Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the group financial statements have not made: or by the EU.
The financial reporting been properly prepared in accordance we have not received all the framework that has been applied in with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: information and explanations we the preparation of the parent company the parent company financial require for our audit: or financial statements is applicable law and statements have been properly a Corporate Governance Statement UK Accounting Standards UK Generally prepared in accordance with UK has not been prepared by the company.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: Under the Listing Rules we are required This report is made solely to the the financial statements have been to review: companys members, as a body, in prepared in accordance with the the directors statement, set out on accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of requirements of the Companies Act page 52, in relation to going concern: the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work 2006: and, as regards the group the part of the Corporate Governance has been undertaken so that we might financial statements, Article 4 of the Statement on page 38 relating to state to the companys members those IAS Regulation.
the companys compliance with the matters we are required to state to them nine provisions of the UK Corporate in an auditors report and for no other Opinion on other matters prescribed Governance Code specified for our purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 review: and by law, we do not accept or assume In our opinion: certain elements of the report to responsibility to anyone other than the the part of the Directors Remuneration shareholders by the Board on directors company and the companys members, Report to be audited has been properly remuneration.
as a body, for our audit work, for this prepared in accordance with the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Respective responsibilities of directors Report for the financial year for which and auditor the financial statements are prepared As explained more fully in the Directors is consistent with the financial Responsibilities Statement set out on statements: and page 51, the directors are responsible for the information given in the Corporate the preparation of the financial statements Governance Statement set out on AC Campbell-Orde and for being satisfied that they give a pages 38 to 42 with respect to internal Senior Statutory Auditor true and fair view.
Our responsibility is control and risk management systems to audit, and express an opinion on, the in relation to financial reporting for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, financial statements in accordance with processes and about share capital Statutory Auditor applicable law and International Standards structures is consistent with the on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Chartered Accountants standards require us to comply with the 100 Temple Street Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Matters on which we are required Bristol Standards for Auditors.
to report by exception BS1 6AG We have nothing to report in respect of Scope of the audit of the financial the following: 27 February 2012 statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are A description of the scope of an audit of required to report to you if, in our opinion: financial statements is provided on the adequate accounting records have not APBs web-site at www.
uk apb been kept by the parent company, or scope private.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or ROTORK P. L. C. 53 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
