7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43:7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43 22 6 11 16:00 Page 42 42 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2011 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: and the Group and parent Company financial statements in the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and of the Group and the Company: and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group the Directors Report, taken together with the operating financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by and financial reviews in the Business Review, includes a the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the fair review of the development and performance of the Company financial statements on the same basis.
business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and Under company law the directors must not approve the uncertainties that they face.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and A statement in relation to the adoption of the going parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements appears on page 18.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: By order of the Board make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and J R P Pike R J E Marsh Chairman Chief Executive prepare the financial statements on the going concern 21 June 2011 21 June 2011 basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
: 7779 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
