118 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Financial risk factors Financial risk management Overview In the normal course of business, the group is exposed to the following financial risks: Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note explains the groups exposure to each of the above risks, aided by quantitative disclosures included throughout these consolidated financial statements, and it summarises the policies and processes that are in place to measure and manage the risks arising, including those related to the management of capital.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the establishment and oversight of the groups risk management framework.
An essential part of this framework is the role undertaken by the audit committee of the board, supported by the internal audit function, and by the chief financial officer, who in this regard is supported by the treasury committee and the group treasury function.
Amongst other responsibilities, the audit committee reviews the internal control environment and risk management systems within the group and it reports its activities to the board.
Theboard also receives a quarterly report on treasury activities, including confirmation of compliance with treasury risk management policies.
The group treasury function is responsible for the management of cash, borrowings and the financial risks arising in relation to interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The responsibility for the management of commodities exposures lies with the procurement functions within the group, including Trinity Procurement GmbH Trinity, the groups centralised procurement function.
The transition of risk management of key brewing and packaging materials has now been substantially transferred to Trinity.
Some of the risk management strategies include the use of derivatives, principally in the form of forward foreign currency contracts, cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps and exchange-traded futures contracts, in order to manage the currency, interest rate and commodities exposures arising from the groups operations.
The group also purchases call options where these provide a cost-effective hedging alternative and, where they form part of an option collar strategy, the group also sells put options to reduce or eliminate the cost of purchased options.
It is the policy of the group that notrading in financial instruments be undertaken.
The groups treasury policies are established to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor exposures and adherence to limits.
Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The group is subject to exposure on the translation of the foreign currency denominated net assets of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures into the groups US dollar reporting currency.
The group seeks to mitigate this exposure, where cost effective, by borrowing in the same currencies as the functional currencies of its main operating units or by achieving the same effect through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
An approximate nominal value of US$1,836 million of US dollar borrowings and 254 million of euro borrowings have been swapped into currencies that match the currency of the underlying operations of the group, primarily South African rand, but also Peruvian nuevo sol, Czech koruna, Polish zloty, Russian rouble and euro.
Of these financial derivatives, US$1,180 million and 150million are accounted for as net investment hedges.
The group does not hedge currency exposures from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries, associates and jointventures.
The group is also exposed to transactional currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of group entities.
These exposures are presently managed locally by group entities which, subject to regulatory constraints or currency market limitations, hedge a proportion of their foreign currency exposure estimated to arise over a period of up to 18months.
Committed transactional exposures that are certain are hedged fully without limitation in time.
The group principally uses forward exchange contracts to hedge currency risk.
