158 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the company financial statements continued i Fair value hedges 1.
Accounting policies continued Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to manage the companys interest rate risk k Hedge accounting to which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
The derivative instruments used by the company, which are used Changes in the fair value of the derivative offset the relevant changes solely for hedging purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange and in the fair value of the underlying hedged item attributable to the interest rate risks, comprise interest rate swaps and forward foreign hedged risk in the profit and loss account in the period incurred.
Such derivative instruments are used to alter the Gainsor losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the company in line effective are recorded in the profit and loss account together with with the companys risk management policies.
the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative ii Cash flow hedges contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends designated in a hedging relationship to manage currency and interest on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and rate risk to which the cash flows of certain liabilities are exposed.
if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
Theeffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised as a In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the company is required separate component of equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised to document the relationship between the hedged item and the immediately in the profit and loss account.
The company is also required to document and in equity are recycled to the profit and loss account in the period demonstrate that the relationship between the hedged item and the in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, where a hedging instrument will be highly effective.
This effectiveness test forecasted transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, the is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge has accumulated fair value movements previously deferred in equity are remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
included in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
The company designates certain derivatives as hedges of the fair Details of the groups financial risk management objectives and value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair policies are provided in note 23 to the consolidated financial value hedge or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions statements of the group.
l Operating leases Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging Rentals paid on operating leases are charged to the profit and loss instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued and amounts previously recorded in equity are recycled to the income m Pension obligations statement.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a The company operates a defined contribution scheme.
Contributions future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
to this scheme are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
When the hedge is discontinued due to ineffectiveness, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Certain derivative instruments, whilst providing effective economic hedges under the companys policies, are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
