Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 89 o Provisions 1.
Accounting policies continued Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable m Impairment that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the assets see note l, non-current assets classified as held for sale see obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis note n, and deferred tax assets see note u. where the effect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
Thecarrying amount of the provision increases in each period to Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value of reflect the passage of time and the unwinding of the discount and the non-current asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the themovement is recognised in the income statement within net fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The fair value less costs to finance costs.
sell is considered to be the amount that could be obtained on disposal of the asset.
Value in use is determined by discounting the future Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and post-tax cash flows generated from continuing use of the cash employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for generating unit CGU using a post-tax discount rate, as this closely future operating losses, however, provisions are recognised for approximates to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
onerous contracts where the unavoidable cost exceeds the Where a potential impairment is identified using post-tax cash flows expectedbenefit.
andpost-tax discount rates, the impairment review is reperformed on a pre-tax basis in order to determine the impairment loss to be recorded.
p Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity from the cash flows of other assets, the group estimates the as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are considered to q Investments in own shares treasury and shares held by be groups of assets that have separately identifiable cash flows.
They employee benefit trusts also include those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing Shares held by employee share ownership plans, employee benefit the income and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more trusts and in treasury are treated as a deduction from equity until the than one income stream.
shares are cancelled, reissued, or disposed.
An impairment loss is held firstly against any specifically impaired Purchases of such shares are classified in the cash flow statement as assets.
Where an impairment is recognised against a CGU, the a purchase of own shares for share trusts or purchase of own shares impairment is first taken against goodwill balances and if there is a for treasury within net cash from financing activities.
remaining loss it is set against the remaining intangible and tangible assets on a pro-rata basis.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal costs and related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the ofa previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the companys equity shareholders.
incomestatement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of r Revenue recognition the asset is restricted to the amount that it would have been had the i Sale of goods and services original impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in respect of Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or goodwill areirreversible.
receivable for goods and services provided to third parties and isrecognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Assets subject to substantially transferred.
amortisation are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or events change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because unlike value added tax, excise is not directly related to the value of sales.
It is n Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale not generally recognised as a separate item on invoices, increases in Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classified as held for excise are not always directly passed on to customers, and the group sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less cannot reclaim the excise where customers do not pay for product costs to sell.
The group therefore considers excise as a cost to the group and reflects it as a production cost.
Consequently, any excise that is Such assets are classified as held for resale if their carrying amount recovered in the sale price is included in revenue.
will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continued use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price discounts, highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate promotional discounts, settlement discounts and after an appropriate sale in its present condition and when management is committed to amount has been provided to cover the sales value of credit notes yet the sale which is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed to be issued that relate to the current and prior periods.
sale within one year from date of classification.
The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products and waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the exception that these are included within other income.
