Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements ii New standards, amendments and interpretations of 1.
Accounting policies existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the group The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing thegroups financial statements are set out below.
These policies standards have been published and are mandatory for the groups have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2011 or later periods, otherwise stated.
but which have not been early adopted by the group: a Basis of preparation IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been is effective from 1 July 2010. prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Amendment to IFRS 1, Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters, is effective from 1 July 2010. the EU, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable Amendment to IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, is effective from to companies reporting under IFRS.
Amendment to IFRIC 14, Pre-payments of a Minimum Funding The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost Requirement, is effective from 1 January 2011. convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010, is primarily effective from assets and liabilities, and post-retirement assets and liabilities as 1January 2011. described in the accounting policies below.
The accounts have been Amendment to IFRS 1, Hyperinflation and Fixed Dates, is effective prepared on a going concern basis.
Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instrument Disclosures: Transfers The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 1 of Financial Assets, is effective from 1 July 2011. requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also Amendment to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of 1 Assets, is effective from 1 January 2012. applying the groups accounting policies.
Actual results could differ IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements, is effective from those estimates.
IAS 28 revised, Associates and Joint Ventures, is effective from b Recent accounting developments 1 1January 2013. i New standards, amendments and interpretations of 1 IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, is effective from 1 January 2013. existing standards adopted by the group IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, is effective from The group has adopted the following as of 1 April 2010: 1 1January 2013.
1 IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, is effective from 1 January 2013.
IFRS 3 revised, Business Combinations requires all acquisitionIFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities, is effective from related costs to be expensed and adjustments to contingent 1 1 January 2013. consideration classified as debt to be recognised in profit or loss IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, is effective from 1 January rather than as an adjustment to goodwill.
It allows the choice on 1 2013. anacquisition by acquisition basis of measuring the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling 1 Not yet endorsed by the EU.
interests share of the acquirees net assets.
The group has applied the revised standard prospectively from 1 April 2010 for The adoption of these standards, interpretations and amendments is combinations completed after that date with no material impact in not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated results of the year ended 31 March 2011. operations or financial position of the group.
IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests c Significant judgements and estimates to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
These In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is transactions no longer result in the recognition of goodwill or gains oftenrequired where the choice of specific policy, assumption or and losses.
When control is lost, any remaining interest in the entity accounting estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in results or net position of the group, should it later be determined that profit or loss.
The group has applied the revised standard from a different choice be more appropriate.
1April 2010 with no material impact in the year ended 31 March 2011.
The revision to IAS 27 contained consequential amendments Management considers the following to be areas of significant to IAS 28, Investments in Associates, and IAS 31, Interests in judgement and estimation for the group due to greater complexity JointVentures.
and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement: The following standards, interpretations and amendments have been i Impairment reviews adopted by the group since 1 April 2010 with no significant impact on Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the relevant its consolidated results or financial position: cash generating unit CGU.
Impairment reviews in respect of the relevant CGUs are performed at least annually or more regularly if IFRS 1 revised, First-time Adoption and Amendment to IFRS 1 events indicate that this is necessary.
Impairment reviews are based forAdditional Exemptions.
on future cash flows discounted using the weighted average cost of IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate.
capital for the relevant country with terminal values calculated IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
applying the long-term growth rate.
The future cash flows which are IFRIC 17, Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners.
based on business forecasts, the long-term growth rates and the IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers.
discount rates used are dependent on management estimates and Amendment to IFRS 2, Group Cash-settled Share-based judgements.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in PaymentTransactions.
these impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation impact on the results and net position of the group.
Details of the Classification of Rights Issues.
estimates used in the impairment reviews for the year are set out Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and innote 10.
