76 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the consolidated financial In addition, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to provide statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the groups auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated financial appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
statements for each financial year.
The directors have prepared the Each of the directors, having made appropriate enquiries, confirms consolidated financial statements in accordance with International that: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements are required by law to so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and of the of which the groups auditors are unaware: and profit or loss of the group for that year.
each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are aware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The directors have reviewed the groups budget and cash flow make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: forecasts.
On the basis of this review, and in the light of the current state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by financial position and existing borrowing facilities, the directors are the European Union: and satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern and have continued to prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going concern adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting A copy of the financial statements of the group is placed on the assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information on the companys The directors confirm that they have complied with the above website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many requirements in preparing the financial statements.
countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and to enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Governance section of the Annual Report, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and the directors report contained in the Governance section of theAnnual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, togetherwith a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
