Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 87 v Capitalisation of borrowing costs 1.
Accounting policies continued Financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during the period of development or construction that necessarily take a i Assets in the course of construction substantial period of time to be developed for their intended use, are Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any capitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
When these j Advance payments made to customers principally hotels, assets are ready for their intended use, they are transferred into the restaurants, bars and clubs appropriate category.
At this point, depreciation commences on the Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the same basis as on other property, plant and equipment.
achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
The group records such payments as prepayments initially at fair value ii Assets held under finance leases and amortises them in the income statement over the relevant period Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing to which the customer commitment is made typically three to five substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are years.
These prepayments are recorded net of any impairment losses.
capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair Where there is a volume target the amortisation of the advance is value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where there inception of the lease, then depreciated over the lower of the lease are specific marketing activities commitments the amortisation is term or their useful lives.
The capital element of future obligations included as an operating expense.
The amounts capitalised are under the leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet reassessed annually for achievement of targets and are impaired classified, as appropriate, as a current or non-current liability.
where there is objective evidence that the targets will not be achieved.
Theinterest element of the lease obligations is charged to the incomestatement over the period of the lease term to reflect a Assets held at customer premises are included within property, plant constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation and equipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on foreach financial period.
iii Returnable containers k Inventories Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each plant and equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, anyimpairment loss.
as follows: Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded to Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost writethe containers off over the course of their economic life.
net of discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
Thisistypically undertaken in a two stage process: Finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus direct costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses on a The excess over deposit value is written down over a period of 1 to FIFO basis.
Provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further losses in trade together with a design obsolescence provision held costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Costs of to write off the deposit value over the expected container design inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on period which is a period of no more than 14 years from the matured qualifying cash flow hedges of purchases of raw materials.
This period is shortened where appropriate by reference to market dynamics and the ability of the l Financial assets and financial liabilities entity to use containers for different brands.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, except in the iv Depreciation case of those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
For those No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course financial instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the ofconstruction.
In respect of all other plant, property and equipment, group assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to at each balance sheet date.
write off the cost, less the estimated residual value, of each asset over its expected useful life as follows: Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity Freehold buildings 20 50 years instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease term asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with or50years another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are Plant, vehicles and systems 2 30 years derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the asset Returnable containers have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred non-returnable containers substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
arerecordedas inventory 1 14 years Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term or Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to lifeofthe asset transfer benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes discharged, cancelled or expired.
intoaccount are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of atwhich the assets are expected to be used.
financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant financial The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference between assets and liabilities are offset.
the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
indd 87 07 06 2011 00:50 88 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued a.
Accounting policies continued Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for Interest costs are charged to the income statement in the year in impairment.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all included in the effective interest calculation and taken to net finance amounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
The amount costs over the life of the instrument.
of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying value and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at There are four categories of financial assets and financial liabilities.
the original effective interest rate.
This provision is recognised in the These are described as follows: income statement.
i Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through b.
Cash and cash equivalents profit orloss In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or includes cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand and other loss include derivative assets and derivative liabilities not designated short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three as effective hedging instruments.
In the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts which are shown All gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
assets or financial liabilities within this category are recognised in the income statement.
iii Available for sale investments Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that a.
Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are either designated in this category or not classified as financial Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables.
instruments whose value changes in response to an underlying Investments in this category are included in non-current assets unless variable, require little or no initial investment and are settled in management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of thefuture.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured at fair value and These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair embedded derivatives need not be accounted for separately if value including any related foreign exchange movements are thehost contract is already fair valued: if it is not considered as a recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal or derivative if it was freestanding: or if it can be demonstrated that impairment of available for sale investments, any gains or losses in itisclosely related to the host contract.
There are certain currency other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
exemptions which the group has applied to these rules which limit theneed to account for certain potential embedded foreign exchange Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date on derivatives.
These are: if a contract is denominated in the functional which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments currency of either party: where that currency is commonly used in are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the international trade of the good traded: or if it is commonly used for investments have expired or have been transferred and the group local transactions in an economic environment.
hastransferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current iv Financial liabilities held at amortised cost and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, depending on when they are expected to mature.
accruals, amounts owed to associates trade, amounts owed to joint ventures trade, other payables and borrowings.
For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging relationship, all fair value movements are recognised immediately in a.
Trade payables the income statement.
See note x for the groups accounting policy Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently on hedge accounting.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade payables are analysed between current and non-current liabilities on ii Loans and receivables the face of the balance sheet, depending on when the obligation to Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or settle will be realised.
determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
They arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to a b.
Borrowings debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction current assets, except for maturities of greater than 12 months after costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value including current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer originating fees and transaction costs, and subsequently measured settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet atamortised cost using the effective interest method less provision date.
Borrowings classified as hedged items are subject to hedge forimpairment.
Loans and receivables include trade receivables, accounting requirements see note x.
Bank overdrafts are shown amounts owed by associates trade, amounts owed by joint ventures within borrowings in current liabilities and are included within cash trade, accrued income and cash and cash equivalents.
andcash equivalents on the face of the cash flow statement as they form an integral part of the groups cash management.
