Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 157 h Deferred taxation 1.
Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where i Loans and receivables transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
arise when the company provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
Loans and A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore receivables are included in debtors in the balance sheet.
recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable ii Cash and short-term deposits taxableprofits against which to recover carried forward tax losses Cash and short-term deposits include cash in hand, bank deposits andfrom which the future reversal of underlying timing differences repayable on demand, other short-term highly liquid investments with can be deducted.
original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within creditors amounts falling due within one year.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, iii Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a instruments whose value changes in response to an underlying variable, non-discounted basis.
require little or no initial investment and are settled in the future.
i Dividend distributions Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current In accordance with FRS 21, dividend distributions to equity holders and fixed assets and creditors on the face of the balance sheet, are recognised as a liability in the financial statements of the company depending on when they are expected to mature.
For derivatives in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys that have not been designated to a hedging relationship, all fair value shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Dividends movements are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised, as there See note k for the companys accounting policy on hedge accounting.
isno present obligation at the balance sheet date.
iv Trade creditors j Share-based compensation Trade creditors are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently The company operates several equity-settled share-based measured at amortised cost.
These include share option plans with and without non-market performance conditions attached, performance Trade creditors are classified as creditors falling due within one year share award plans with market conditions attached and awards unless the company has an unconditional right to defer settlement for related to the employee element of the Broad-Based Black Economic at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Empowerment BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
In addition the company has granted an equity-settled share-based payment to v Borrowings retailers in relation to the retailer component of the BBBEE scheme.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include In accordance with FRS 20, an expense is recognised to spread the accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as fair value at date of grant of each award granted after 7 November current liabilities unless the company has an unconditional right to 2002 over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
Borrowings classified as hedged items are subject to Acorresponding adjustment is made to equity over the remaining hedge accounting requirements see note k. vesting period.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised vi Financial guarantees immediately.
The charge is based on the fair value of the award at the FRS 26 Amendment requires that issued financial guarantees, other date of grant, as calculated by binomial model calculations and Monte than those previously asserted by the entity to be insurance contracts, Carlo simulations.
are to be initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of the amount initially recognised less The charge is not reversed if the options have not been exercised cumulative amortisation recognised and the amount determined because the market value of the shares is lower than the option in accordance with FRS 12 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and price at the date of grant.
The proceeds received net of any directly Contingent Assets.
attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised, unless Financial guarantee contracts are defined in FRS 26 as contracts theoptions are satisfied by treasury or EBT shares.
thatrequire the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make The issue by the company to employees of its subsidiaries of a grant payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms over the companys shares represents additional capital contributions of a debt instrument.
by the company to its subsidiaries, except to the extent the company is reimbursed.
An additional investment in subsidiaries results in a g Revenue recognition corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
The additional capital i Interest income contribution is based on the fair value of the grant issued allocated Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective over the underlying grants vesting period.
ii Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment isestablished.
