92 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued y Deposits by customers 1.
Accounting policies continued Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded in ii Cash flow hedges respect of the obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Deposits Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments paid by customers for branded returnable containers are reflected in designated in a hedging relationship to manage currency and interest the balance sheet within current liabilities.
Any estimated liability that rate risk to which the cash flows of certain liabilities are exposed.
may arise in respect of deposits for unbranded containers is shown Theeffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that inprovisions.
is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The ineffective portion is recognised z Earnings per share immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity Basic earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities are reclassified to the income statement in the period in which the after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, where a forecasted entity, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, the accumulated issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary fair value movements previously deferred in equity are included in the shares held in the groups employee benefit trust and in treasury initial cost of the asset or liability.
iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Diluted earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise either after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders, divided by the foreign currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, exchangecontracts and cross currency swaps designated in less the weighted average number of ordinary shares held in the ahedging relationship.
groups employee benefit trust and in treasury during the year, plusthe weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting from Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as highly share options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding during effective are recognised in other comprehensive income.
largely offset foreign currency gains or losses arising on the translation of net investments that are recorded in equity, in the foreign currency translation reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are only reclassified totheincome statement upon disposal of the net investment.
Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued and amounts previously recorded in equity are reclassified to the income statement.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
When the hedge is discontinued due to ineffectiveness, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Certain derivative instruments, whilst providing effective economic hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
