Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 67 Information not subject to audit rewarded for their contribution to the groups operating and financial performance.
In setting remuneration levels, the committee takes Composition and terms of reference of the remuneration into account industry, market and country benchmarks, and ensures committee that each executives remuneration is appropriate to their scale of During the year ended 31 March 2011, the members of the committee responsibility and performance.
This helps to attract, motivate and were Mr Morland chairman, Mr Armour, Lord Fellowes, Mr Manser retain individuals of the necessary calibre.
Mr Bible, Mr Willard, Mr Santo Domingo and Mr Kahn joined some meetings as observers.
Also present were the Chief The table and charts below show the ratios of performance-related Executive, Mr Mackay, the General Counsel and Group Secretary, compensation to base salary and benefits of the executive directors, Mr Davidson, the Deputy Company Secretary, Mr Shapiro, and the and the relative value of the different elements, including the bonus Group Head of Compensation and Benefits, Mr Scoones, except and long-term share-based compensation awarded in respect of the when their own remuneration was discussed.
Mr Armour joined the year ended 31 March 2011, assuming target or median performance.
Lord Fellowes retired from the board The ratios accord with the committees policy on the balance between andthe committee on 22 July 2010.
Ms Knox joined the committee fixed and variable pay.
The committee considers that alignment with shareholders interests The committee deals with the remuneration of the executive and linkage to SABMillers long-term strategic goals is best achieved directors and other members of the executive committee, as well through a twin focus on earnings per share EPS and growth as approving all awards under the companys share incentive plans, in shareholder value, with a blend of both absolute and relative in accordance with the terms of reference approved by the board.
Hence, for executive directors and senior When setting the remuneration of executive directors, the committee executives, vesting of value share awards are subject to SABMillers considers corporate performance on environmental, social and five-year value sharing performance condition, and vesting of governance issues, and the pay and employment conditions of performance share awards are subject to three-year adjusted EPS employees throughout the group, and ensures that the incentive growth, with targets set according to the committees judgement after structure for senior management does not raise environmental, considering, among other factors, historical and forecast adjusted social or governance issues by inadvertently motivating inappropriate EPS growth for SABMillers peers.
Base pay Advisers The committee reviews the salaries of executive directors at the In the course of its deliberations, the committee considered the beginning of each financial year.
views of the Chief Executive on the remuneration and performance of the members of the executive committee.
The Group Secretary In setting target remuneration levels for the executive directors the and the Group Head of Compensation and Benefits also provided committee has regard to the 30 FTSE 100 companies ranked in the 15 information to the committee on the co-ordination of global pay places above and below the company by market capitalisation, as well policies, expatriate and local pay for international deployments, equity as to pay levels and practices in the companys principal international usage through share incentive plans, and on legal, regulatory and competitors and, where relevant, in companies comparable in size governance issues.
to the companys divisions in those countries in which the company has a significant presence.
The committee also takes into account Kepler Associates is retained by the committee to provide advice on remuneration levels and practices in the groups own operations.
long-term incentive design, information on current market practices, In determining the salaries of the executive directors for the year and metrics on performance conditions, specifically relative TSR and commencing 1 April 2011, the committee took into consideration the other remuneration matters.
Kepler Associates does not provide any 19% increase in adjusted EPS 23% in sterling terms achieved in the other advice or services to the group.
year ended 31 March 2011, and the recommended 19% increase in the full year dividend to 81 US cents per share, compared with 68 Remuneration policies US cents per share for the previous year.
The executive directors As outlined in the introductory letter from the chairman of the willreceive increases averaging 4.3%, which are broadly in line remuneration committee, the committees policy is to ensure that withthe salary increases awarded to other UK-based employees executive directors and members of the executive committee are ofthe company.
indd 67 07 06 2011 00:45 68 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Remuneration report continued Details of the executive directors salaries from 1 April 2011 and the At its meeting on 16 May 2011, the committee reviewed the percentage changes from those in the year ended 31 March 2011 are performance of the executives participating in the short-term incentive shown in the table below: plans.
In light of the achievement of group financial targets and the levels of achievement of strategic and personal objectives, the 2011 2012 % committee agreed in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011 the Executive directors Salary Salary change level of bonuses to the executive directors as shown below with as at 31 March 2011 from 2011 the levels for the three preceding years also included in the table EAG Mackay 1,192,000 1,245,000 4.4 toillustrate the linkage with group financial achievement : MI Wyman 715,000 745,000 4.2 Periodic review of the groups remuneration policies As outlined in the Chairmans introductory letter the committees The committee also received advice from Kepler Associates, from intention is that reviews of the appropriate level and structure of the Chief Executive and from the Group Head of Compensation long-term incentives are expected to be conducted at three-yearly and Benefits on appropriate pay levels for the other members intervals, and, in the absence of wholly exceptional circumstances, the of the companys executive committee.
For executives based in 2011 level of long-term incentives should remain unchanged until the the UK, salaries were determined by reference to appropriate UK next review in 2013. benchmarks, and for executives whose primary responsibilities are for the operations of business units outside the UK, part of their base Long-term incentive plans pay was determined by reference to appropriate benchmarks in their The descriptions of the long-term incentive plans in the section theatres of operation and the balance by reference to UK pay levels, belowhave been audited.
given that part of their time is spent on the management of the groups The company has the following share incentive plans currently in global business with international responsibilities.
active operation, all of which were approved by shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
The share plans which were introduced at the time of the Short-term incentive plans companys primary listing on the London Stock Exchange in 1999 The executive directors and members of the executive committee have now closed, and no new grants can be made under them.
participate in an annual short-term incentive plan which delivers a cash bonus based upon the achievement of group and where Approved Executive Share Option Plan 2008 applicable divisional financial targets, and on strategic and personal Executive Share Option Plan 2008 performance objectives agreed by the committee.
The Chief Executive South African Executive Share Option Plan 2008 may earn a bonus of up to 175% of base salary.
The Chief Financial Executive Share Award Plan 2008 Officer may earn a bonus of up to 120% of base salary and other Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2008 executive committee members may earn maximum bonuses of Associated Companies Employees Share Plan 2008 between 120% and 150% of their base salary depending upon local market practices in the locations where they are based.
Share option plans Share options are granted at market price at the time of grant.
The group financial performance targets for the executive directors Options granted under the South African Executive Share Option and UK-based members of the executive committee relate to a mixture Plan 2008 are denominated in South African rand and are granted of adjusted EPS growth, EBITA and working capital management over SABMiller plc ordinary shares as traded on the Johannesburg targets.
The committee believes that linking short-term incentives to Stock Exchange.
Grants of share options are usually made annually profit, earnings per share growth and working capital management to eligible employees at the discretion of the remuneration committee reinforces the companys business objectives.
The divisional targets taking account of managements recommendations about employees for executive committee members whose primary responsibilities are performance and future potential, and of local market practices, to for the operation of business units outside the UK vary according to ensure competitiveness.
Share options typically vest over a threedivisional value drivers consistent with the groups strategic priorities, yearperiod and expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
and accordingly include both financial and non-financial targets such as The table on page 73 gives details of the share options held by divisional EBITA, sales volume, working capital management and other executive directors during the year ended 31 March 2011, including appropriate measurements.
Financial and quantitative performance details of the performance conditions.
targets comprise 60% of each individuals incentive bonus potential.
The strategic and personal performance objectives which make up Performance share award plans the remaining 40% are specific and measurable.
In setting individual The company currently operates the SABMiller Executive Share Award strategic and personal targets, the committee has discretion to Plan 2008 the Award Plan to make awards of value and performance take into account all factors that it considers appropriate, including shares to members of the executive committee including the environmental, social and governance issues.
executive directors and other eligible senior executives taking Pay and performance account of managements recommendations about the employees performance, future potential and local market practices.
Awards Annual bonus 000 EAG Mackay MI Wyman EPS US cents under the Award Plan to members of the executive committee in the 191.5 200 2,100 year ended 31 March 2011 were made in two parts.
The first part 161.1 1,780 160 Value Shares vests on the fifth anniversary of the grant date, subject 143.1 137.5 1,775 1,470 to the value sharing performance condition.
Participants may elect 1,606 1,580 120 to crystallise the level of vesting at quarterly intervals following the 1,550 80 third anniversary of the grant date, subject to deferral and clawback 840 888 provisions which mean that vested shares are only released in equal 40 750 520 683 640 increments each year during the period up to the fifth anniversary.
400 0 210 As in prior years, the second part of the award Performance Shares 2008 2009 2010 2011 vests in a single tranche on the third anniversary of the grant date, 2008 2009 2010 2011 Bonus % of % Bonus % of % Bonus % of % Bonus % of % salary of max.
indd 68 07 06 2011 00:45 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 69 subject to an EPS based performance condition.
Further details on Kepler Associates undertakes each year the assessment of the value and performance share awards made to executive directors and companys TSR performance relative to the comparator group, and the respective performance conditions can be found in the tables on the methodology used and the final results for each award are subject pages 73 to 75. to review and verification by the companys auditors.
The Award Plan and the older performance share schemes are operated The Stock Appreciation Rights Plan is used principally for a small in conjunction with the companys Employees Benefit Trust EBT.
The number of executives based in the groups Miller Brewing International trustee of the EBT grants awards in consultation with the company.
operations, outside the MillerCoors joint venture, and the Associated Companies Employees Share Plan is used to grant long-term For the purpose of calculating TSR and additional shareholder value, share-based incentives to a limited number of employees of certain the share prices and dividends of the comparator companies are associated companies in the group who are not eligible to receive converted, as necessary, into sterling at the exchange rates prevailing awards under the companys share option and share award plans at the relevant times.
The conversion into sterling is intended to because they do not work for subsidiaries of the company.
remove distortions arising from differing rates of inflation in the countries in which the comparator companies are listed.
TSR and the Dilution relevant statistical quartiles are determined in accordance with current Including all shares issued in satisfaction of share option exercises market practice, using three averaging periods for awards granted over the ten years ended 31 March 2011, and all outstanding share before June 2010, and six months for awards granted in June 2010 options capable of being satisfied by the issue of new shares, and subsequently.
The companies comprising the TSR comparator potential dilution amounts to 3.6% of the issued ordinary shares of group for all the performance share awards which had not yet vested the company excluding shares held in treasury on 31 March 2011. or lapsed as at 31 March 2011 are listed below: Obligations under the companys other long-term incentive plans are typically settled by the EBT from shares transferred from treasury or Comparator group for outstanding TSR based performance share purchased in the market.
awards granted before June 2010: Employees Benefit Trust Current constituents: At 31 March 2011 the number of shares held in the EBT was 7.4 million 2010: 8.7 million, representing 0.47% 2010: 0.55% of the issued 1 Anheuser-Busch InBev 1 ordinary shares of the company.
2 Asahi Breweries 11 2 3 Carlsberg A 4 Constellation Brands 10 These shares are held by the trustee on behalf of the EBT to ensure 5 Diageo 3 that the EBT holds sufficient ordinary shares to meet potential future 6 Fosters Group obligations in respect of performance and value share awards and 7 Heineken 9 8 Kirin Holdings share-settled share appreciation rights.
The trustees of the EBT 4 9 Molson Coors have waived their right to receive dividends on shares held by them, 10 Pernod Ricard 8 and will only vote shares or claim dividends on shares which are 11 Sapporo Breweries 5 beneficially owned by a participant in a share incentive plan, and only 7 6 then in accordance with the instructions of the underlying shareholder.
As at 31 March 2011, there were no beneficially held shares in the EBT 2010: 0.3 million.
Former constituents removed from the comparator group: Anheuser-Busch acquired by InBev Femsa UBD acquired by Heineken Pensions Grolsch acquired by SABMiller It is the companys policy to provide money purchase occupational Lion Nathan acquired by Kirin Holdings retirement funding schemes wherever possible so as to minimise the Scottish & Newcastle acquired by Heineken and Carlsberg companys funding risk.
Where feasible, the company applies this policy to new acquisitions.
For 2010 and subsequent awards, those companies considered to be the most significant competitors of SABMiller and therefore the best The rate of contribution from the company as a percentage of base comparators for benchmarking company performance are weighted salaries paid in sterling is set at 30% for the executive directors.
The weighting of comparators for value share awards Historically, the company has made contributions for the executive granted in June 2010 was: directors to the SABMiller plc Staff Pension Scheme, an approved occupational pension scheme in the UK, to the extent allowed in light Current constituents: of the changes to pension allowances that took effect in 2006, with Company Weighting any excess being credited in an unfunded corporate plan.
In the year 1 Anheuser-Busch InBev 20% 11 1 ended 31 March 2011, in light of the uncertainty surrounding the UK 2 Heineken 20% 10 governments review of the tax treatment of retirement contributions, 3 Molson Coors 10% 9 4 Carlsberg A 10% the company paid Mr Mackay and Mr Wyman the equivalent of their 8 5 Diageo 10% pension contributions being 357,600 and 214,500 respectively 6 Asahi Breweries 5% 2 7 in the form of a cash allowance for the year, with the company and 7 Constellation Brands 5% the individuals paying their respective shares of national insurance 8 Fosters Group 5% 6 9 Kirin Holdings 5% and income tax on these amounts as if they were salary.
For the year 10 Pernod Ricard 5% beginning 1 April 2011, the remuneration committee has determined 11 Sapporo Breweries 5% 5 that because no further contributions can now be made to the 3 4 SABMiller plc Staff Pension Scheme on behalf of Mr Mackay or Mr Wyman because of the reduction in the lifetime allowance, the executive directors pension entitlements will be satisfied by making further notional credits in an unfunded corporate plan.
Further details on executive directors pension contributions during the financial year are on page 72.
