90 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of 1.
Accounting policies continued anasset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying value ofaliability is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised in ii Interest income fullon temporary differences arising from investment in subsidiaries, Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the interest method.
reversalof the temporary difference is controlled by the group and itisprobable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the When a receivable is impaired the group reduces the carrying amount foreseeable future.
This includes taxation in respect of the retained to its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated future cash earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the flows at the original effective interest rate, and continuing to unwind balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or the discount as interest income.
abinding agreement to distribute past earnings in future periods hasbeen entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred income tax is also iii Royalty income recognised in respect of the unremitted retained earnings of overseas Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with associates and joint ventures as the group is not able to determine the relevant agreements and is included in other income.
when such earnings will be remitted and when such additional tax such as withholding taxes might be payable.
iv Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore isestablished.
recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which s Operating leases thetemporary differences including carried forward tax losses Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are charged canbe utilised.
or credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based t Exceptional items on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively Where certain expense or income items recorded in a period are enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a material by their size or incidence, the group reflects such items as non-discounted basis.
exceptional items within a separate line on the income statement except for those exceptional items that relate to associates, joint v Dividend distributions ventures, net finance costs and tax.
Associates, joint ventures, Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are recognised netfinance cost and tax exceptional items are only referred to as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which inthenotes to the consolidated financial statements.
the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Dividends declared after the Exceptional items are also summarised in the segmental analyses, balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present excluding those that relate to net finance costs and tax.
obligation at the balance sheet date.
The group presents alternative earnings per share calculations on a w Employee benefits headline and adjusted basis.
The adjusted earnings per share figure i Wages and salaries excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in the software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax exceptional items income statement as the employees services are rendered.
in order to present an additional measure of performance for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Headline earnings per ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs share is calculated in accordance with the South African Circular The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued vacation 3 2009 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing pay when such benefits are earned and not when these benefits requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
u Taxation The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it milestone dates in a career with the group.
Such accruals are relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly appropriately discounted to reflect the future payment dates at in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive discount rates determined by reference to local high-quality income or directly in equity, respectively.
Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as adjusted iii Profit-sharing and bonus plans for items that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and current taxation is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
profit attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect ofall temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial where there is a past practice that has created a constructive statements, except where the temporary difference arises from obligation.
At a mid-year point an accrual is maintained for the goodwill in the case of deferred tax liabilities or from the initial appropriate proportion of the expected bonuses which would recognition other than a business combination of other assets becomepayable at the year end.
andliabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
