Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 153 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the company financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, In addition, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to provide the the remuneration report and the company financial statements in companys auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
Each of the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements directors, having made appropriate enquiries, confirms that: for each financial year.
The directors have prepared the company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted of which the companys auditors are unaware: and Accounting Practice.
The financial statements are required by law each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company for as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant that year.
audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: A copy of the financial statements of the company is placed on the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them companys website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance consistently: and integrity of statutory and audited information on the companys make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial explained in the financial statements: and statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions orqualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the companyand hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
