86 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Acquired brands are amortised.
In respect of brands currently held 1.
Accounting policies continued the amortisation period is 10 to 40 years, being the period for which the group has exclusive rights to those brands.
ii Associates and joint ventures On acquisition the investment in associates and joint ventures ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as part of isrecorded initially at cost.
Subsequently the carrying amount is a business combination increased or decreased to recognise the groups share of the Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor associates and joint ventures income and expenses after the licensing arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at date of acquisition.
afairvalue representing the remaining contractual period with an assumption about the expectation that such a contract will be Fair values reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition are renewed, together with a valuation of this extension.
attributed to the groups share of identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
The Acquired licences or contracts are amortised.
In respect of consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets licences or contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed period for which the group has exclusive rights to these assets or atthe date of the acquisition, and also includes the groups estimate income streams.
of the fair value of any deferred consideration payable.
iii Customer lists and distributor relationships recognised as The date significant influence or joint control commences is not part of a business combination necessarily the same as the closing date or any other date named in The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists and the contract.
These are recognised as intangible assets and are calculated by discounting the future revenue stream iii Goodwill attributable to these lists or relationships.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in Acquired customer lists or distributor relationships are amortised.
the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity Inrespect of contracts currently held, the amortisation period is interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the groups share of the theperiod for which the group has the benefit of these assets.
identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair iv Software value of the groups share of identifiable net assets acquired exceeds Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item the fair value of the consideration, the difference is recorded as ofproperty, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised as an negative goodwill.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is intangible asset.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed ofthe costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct costs forimpairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identified is associated with the production of identifiable and unique internally recognised immediately in the income statement and is not reversed.
generated software products controlled by the group that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint year are capitalised.
Direct costs include software development ventures is included in the carrying value of the investment in the employment costs including those of contractors used, capitalised associate or joint venture.
interest and an appropriate portion of overheads.
Capitalised computer software, licence and development costs are amortised h Intangible assets over their useful economic lives of between three and eight years.
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation ona straight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Cost is Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer usually determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the asset software programmes are expensed as incurred.
has been acquired as part of a business combination.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised v Research and development attheir fair value at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation is included Research and general development expenditure is written off in the within net operating expenses in the income statement.
Internally period in which it is incurred.
generated intangibles are not recognised except for software and applied development costs referred to under software and research Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as internally and development below.
generated intangible assets where there is a clearly defined project, separately identifiable expenditure, an outcome assessed with Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and commerciality, useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment where there is expected revenues exceed expected costs and the group has the atriggering event.
The group regularly reviews all of its amortisation resources to complete the task.
Such assets are amortised on a rates and residual values to take account of any changes in straight-line basis over their useful lives once the project is complete.
The directors assessment of the useful life of intangible assets is based on the nature of the asset acquired, i Property, plant and equipment thedurability of the products to which the asset attaches and the Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated expected future impact of competition on the business.
depreciation and any impairment losses.
i Brands Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition Brands are recognised as an intangible asset where the brand has of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying along-term value.
Acquired brands are only recognised where title value or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate, only when it isclear or the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the isprobable that future economic benefits associated with the specific business and the earnings attributable to it are separately identifiable.
asset will flow to the group and the cost can be measured reliably.
The group typically arrives at the fair value of such brands on a relief Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement from royalty basis.
during the financial period in which they are incurred.
