84 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued regardless of whether this power is actually exercised.
Accounting policies continued companys interest in subsidiaries is less than 100%, the share attributable to outside shareholders is reflected in non-controlling ii Taxation interests.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from The group operates in many countries and is subject to taxes in the date control commences until the date control ceases.
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment is often by its nature complex, Control is presumed to exist when the group owns, directly or and cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power reached with the relevant tax authority which may take several years ofan entity unless, in exceptional circumstances, it can be clearly to conclude.
Amounts provided are accrued based on managements demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute control.
interpretation of country specific tax laws and the likelihood of settlement.
Control also exists where the group has the ability to direct or Actual liabilities could differ from the amount provided which could dominate decision-making in an entity, regardless of whether this have a consequent adverse impact on the results and net position of power is actually exercised.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business, the results iii Pension and post-retirement benefits of the business are included in the groups results up to the effective Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order date of disposal.
The profit or loss on disposal or termination is to value the groups pension and post-retirement obligations in the calculated after charging the amount of any related goodwill to the balance sheet and to determine the amounts to be recognised in the extent that it has not previously been taken to the income statement.
income statement and in other comprehensive income in accordance with IAS 19.
The calculations of these obligations and charges are Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income based on assumptions determined by management which include and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in discount rates, salary and pension inflation, healthcare cost inflation, preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are mortality rates and expected long-term rates of return on assets.
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 32.
The selection of the asset transferred.
of different assumptions could affect the net position of the group and future results.
Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory accounting reference date of 31 December.
These are consolidated using iv Property, plant and equipment management prepared information on a basis coterminous with the The determination of the useful economic life and residual values of companys accounting reference date.
property, plant and equipment is subject to management estimation.
The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual ii Associates values to take account of any changes in circumstances, and any Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term interest and changes that could affect prospective depreciation charges and asset over which the group has directly or indirectly significant influence, carrying values.
where significant influence is the ability to influence the financial and operating policies of the entity.
v Business combinations On the acquisition of a company or business, a determination of the The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory accounting fair value and the useful life of intangible assets acquired is performed, referencedate of 30 June.
In respect of each year ending 31 March, which requires the application of management judgement.
Future this company is included based on financial statements drawn up to events could cause the assumptions used by the group to change the previous 31 December, but taking into account any changes in which would have a significant impact on the results and net position thesubsequent period from 1 January to 31 March that would of the group.
All other associates are included on acoterminous basis.
vi Exceptional items Exceptional items are expense or income items recorded in a period iii Joint ventures which have been determined by management as being material by Joint ventures are contractual arrangements which the group their size or incidence and are presented separately within the results hasentered into with one or more parties to undertake an of the group.
The determination of which items are disclosed as economicactivity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the exceptional items will affect the presentation of profit measures contractuallyagreed sharing of control over an economic activity, including EBITA and adjusted earnings per share, and requires a andexists only when the strategic, financial and operating decisions degree of judgement.
Details relating to exceptional items reported relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties during the year are set out in note 4. sharing the control.
d Segmental reporting The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of Operating segments reflect the management structure of the group and associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based on method from the date significant influence or joint control commences group revenue and EBITA by the groups chief operating decision maker, to the date it ceases based on present ownership interests.
defined as the executive directors.
The group is focussed geographically, and while not meeting the definition of reportable segments, the group The group recognises its share of associates and joint ventures reports separately as segments Asia, South Africa Hotels and Gaming post-tax results as a one line entry before profit before tax in the and Corporate as this provides useful additional information.
income statement and its share of associates and joint ventures equity movements as a one line entry under other comprehensive e Basis of consolidation income in the statement of comprehensive income.
SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated inGreat Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated When the groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been financial statements include the financial information of the subsidiary, reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its interest associate and joint venture entities owned by the company.
in the associate or joint venture, the group only provides foradditional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations i Subsidiaries to fund such losses, or make payments on behalf of the associate or Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company, where control is joint venture.
Where the investment in an associate or joint venture is the power directly or indirectly to govern the financial and operating disposed, the investment ceases to be equity accounted.
policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities, 50518 TEXT pgs83-108.
