Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 87 v Capitalisation of borrowing costs 1.
Accounting policies continued Financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during the period of development or construction that necessarily take a i Assets in the course of construction substantial period of time to be developed for their intended use, are Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any capitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
When these j Advance payments made to customers principally hotels, assets are ready for their intended use, they are transferred into the restaurants, bars and clubs appropriate category.
At this point, depreciation commences on the Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the same basis as on other property, plant and equipment.
achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
The group records such payments as prepayments initially at fair value ii Assets held under finance leases and amortises them in the income statement over the relevant period Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing to which the customer commitment is made typically three to five substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are years.
These prepayments are recorded net of any impairment losses.
capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair Where there is a volume target the amortisation of the advance is value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where there inception of the lease, then depreciated over the lower of the lease are specific marketing activities commitments the amortisation is term or their useful lives.
The capital element of future obligations included as an operating expense.
The amounts capitalised are under the leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet reassessed annually for achievement of targets and are impaired classified, as appropriate, as a current or non-current liability.
where there is objective evidence that the targets will not be achieved.
Theinterest element of the lease obligations is charged to the incomestatement over the period of the lease term to reflect a Assets held at customer premises are included within property, plant constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation and equipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on foreach financial period.
iii Returnable containers k Inventories Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each plant and equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, anyimpairment loss.
as follows: Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded to Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost writethe containers off over the course of their economic life.
net of discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
Thisistypically undertaken in a two stage process: Finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus direct costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses on a The excess over deposit value is written down over a period of 1 to FIFO basis.
Provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further losses in trade together with a design obsolescence provision held costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Costs of to write off the deposit value over the expected container design inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on period which is a period of no more than 14 years from the matured qualifying cash flow hedges of purchases of raw materials.
This period is shortened where appropriate by reference to market dynamics and the ability of the l Financial assets and financial liabilities entity to use containers for different brands.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, except in the iv Depreciation case of those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
For those No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course financial instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the ofconstruction.
In respect of all other plant, property and equipment, group assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to at each balance sheet date.
write off the cost, less the estimated residual value, of each asset over its expected useful life as follows: Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity Freehold buildings 20 50 years instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease term asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with or50years another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are Plant, vehicles and systems 2 30 years derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the asset Returnable containers have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred non-returnable containers substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
arerecordedas inventory 1 14 years Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term or Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to lifeofthe asset transfer benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes discharged, cancelled or expired.
intoaccount are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of atwhich the assets are expected to be used.
financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant financial The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference between assets and liabilities are offset.
the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
