66 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Remuneration report continued To achieve this, we adopted a new and much more challenging Shareholding guidelines TSR-based performance condition for our senior executives longWe are sometimes asked by shareholders why we do not impose term incentives, focused on improving alignment with shareholders.
minimum shareholding requirements on our executive directors, as We communicated this to shareholders and senior executives as many other companies do.
I can assure shareholders that we have a value sharing performance condition, under which executives considered this.
However, our executive directors, Messrs Mackay have the right to receive a defined number of shares for each 10 and Wyman, already own significant numbers of SABMiller ordinary million of additional shareholder value delivered over the life of an shares.
As at 31 March 2011, Mr Mackay owned 1,402,927 shares award.
Additional shareholder value means growth in the market and Mr Wyman 567,129 shares, which based on the value of an capitalisation of SABMiller after taking account of net equity cash SABMiller ordinary share on 31 March 2011 of 22.075 are worth 26 flows in excess of the performance of the weighted median of a times Mr Mackays annual base salary and 17.5 times Mr Wymans groupof peer companies.
We are therefore of the view that the two executive directors substantial stakes in the group demonstrably align their However, unlike the previous relative TSR-based performance interests with those of other shareholders, far in excess of formal condition, under which 25% of the awards vested on reaching the shareholding guidelines adopted by any other FTSE 100 company median performance of the relevant comparator group, none of the that we are aware of, and that there is no need for us to set any TSR-based element will now vest at median performance.
On the minimum requirement, although we will keep this under review other hand, executives will be able to continue earning additional from time to time.
shares if performance exceeds the upper quartile threshold but with an overall cap at the point at which the outperformance above Conclusion the median equals the companys market capitalisation at the date We believe that managements remuneration over the years has of grant.
Based on the awards shown in the table on page 75, the been consistent with the performance achieved, with a direct link value share award for all executives together is capped at circa 0.4% to our share price growth, both in absolute and relative terms, of additional shareholder value created over and above the median and to our strong underlying financial and strategic performance.
of the comparator group for any one cycle.
This is the maximum Weare confident that our approach to remuneration will continue theoretical percentage that can be earned in aggregate by the toincentivise management to deliver superior performance in executive directors and the members of the executive committee for futureyears.
any one cycle, with the remaining 99.6% of the extra value created therefore accruing to shareholders although of course it would be Against this background, I commend to you this directors an extraordinary level of outperformance to reach that maximum, as remuneration report, and hope that we can count on your continued it would involve more than doubling the groups market capitalisation support in achieving our aim to make SABMiller the most admired over the three to five year performance period when compared with company in the global beer industry.
Yours sincerely Before adopting this approach, we solicited views from the companys 12 largest shareholders and selected institutional Miles Morland  bodies, to provide them with the opportunity Director to comment on the proposal, and to offer to discuss any concerns Chairman of the remuneration committee or questions which they had.
In the light of the comments received, we modified our original proposal by introducing a deferral provision, 3 June 2011 under which if an executive elects to request the early release of an award after three years but before the end of the five-year period, The remuneration report continues on pages 67 to 75. the shares will only be released to the executive in two or three equal instalments over the balance of the five-year period.
We also reduced the number of shares granted to the senior executive team under the value sharing awards, as well as under their share option and earnings per share EPS based performance share awards.
In summary, we believe that the calibration of SABMillers long-term incentives: appropriately motivates and rewards performance, by ensuring that management is incentivised not only to continue delivering upper quartile performance but also to strive for sustained performance above that threshold: sharpens the relationship between pay and performance: and contributes materially towards the sustainable achievement of the groups strategic objectives.
Performance share awards including the new value share awards were made with effect from 1 June 2010, and the new approach was explained in detail in last years directors remuneration report.
We are pleased that over 91.8% of the votes cast at last years annual general meeting were in favour of that report, indicating shareholders support of the committees approach.
We have made no changes to the level or structure of our remuneration framework this year, and, as to the future, we intend to conduct reviews of the appropriate level and structure of long-term incentives at approximately three-yearly intervals, so, in the absence of exceptional circumstances, the 2011 level of long-term incentives should remain unchanged until the next review in 2013.
