156 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 N No ot te es s t to o t th he e c co om mp pa an ny y fi fin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s continued The company regularly reviews its depreciation rates to take account 1.
Accounting policies of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the company takes into account are the expected a Statement of compliance rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost between the disposal proceeds and the net book value of the asset.
convention, as modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and with e Impairment accounting standards applicable in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
In accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill, A summary of the significant company accounting policies is set fixed assets are subject to an impairment review if circumstances outbelow.
or events change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
The review is performed by comparing the carrying The company has not presented a cash flow statement or provided value of the fixed asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher of details of certain related party transactions as permitted under FRS the net realisable value and value in use.
The net realisable value is 1 revised Cash Flow Statements and FRS 8 Amendment Related considered to be the amount that could be obtained on disposal of Party Disclosures respectively.
In addition, the company has also the asset.
The value in use of the asset is determined by discounting, taken advantage of the exemption from providing financial instruments at a market based discount rate, the expected future cash flows disclosures as permitted by FRS 29 Amendment Financial resulting from its continued use, including those arising from its final Instruments: Disclosure.
When the carrying values of fixed assets are written down by any impairment amount, the loss is recognised in the profit and loss b Investments in subsidiary undertakings account in the period in which it is incurred.
Should circumstances These comprise investments in shares and loans that the directors or events change and give rise to a reversal of a previous impairment intend to hold on a continuing basis in the companys business.
The loss, the reversal is recognised in the profit and loss account in investments are stated at cost less provisions for impairment.
A review the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the asset for the potential impairment of an investment is carried out if events isincreased.
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be recoverable.
Such impairment reviews are The increase in the carrying value of the asset will only be up to the performed in accordance with FRS 11. amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, income c Foreign currencies generating units are considered to be groups of assets and liabilities The financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the that generate income, and are largely independent of other income companys functional and presentational currency.
They also include those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of those used to The South African rand ZAR and British pound GBP exchange rates produce more than one income stream.
to the US dollar used in preparing the company financial statements were as follows: f Financial assets and financial liabilities Weighted average rate Closing rate Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, except in the ZAR GBP ZAR GBP case of those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
For those Year ended 31 March 2011 7.15 0.64 6.77 0.62 financial instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, Year ended 31 March 2010 7.78 0.62 7.30 0.66 the company assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at Financial assets are recognised when the company has rights or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date with the resultant other access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, translation differences being included in operating profit, other than equity instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another those arising on financial liabilities which are recorded within net financial asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments finance costs.
with another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in asset have expired or have been transferred and the company has a foreign currency are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
All other non-monetary items denominated in a foreign currency are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to balance sheet date.
transfer benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments d Tangible fixed assets and depreciation with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost net of accumulated liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is depreciation and impairment losses.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of financial assets and liabilities, which No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course of are in determinable monetary amounts, and there is the intention to construction.
In respect of all other tangible fixed assets, depreciation settle net, the relevant financial assets and liabilities are offset.
Interest is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to write off the costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which they cost, less the estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its accrue.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference between expected useful life as follows: the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are included in the Office equipment 2-30 years effective interest calculation and taken to net interest payable over the Leasehold land and buildings Shorter of the lease term or 50 years life of the instrument.
