SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Contents Cautionary statement Whats inside This document does not constitute an offer to sell or issue orthe solicitation of an offer to buy or acquire ordinary shares in the capital of SABMiller plc the company or any other securities of the company in any jurisdiction or an inducement to enter into investment activity.
This document is intended to provide information to shareholders.
It should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
1 Performance highlights Overview This document includes forward-looking statements with respect 2 Five minute read to certain of SABMiller plcs plans, current goals and expectations 4 Group at a glance relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
Financial and operational These statements contain the words anticipate, believe, intend, highlights of the year, an estimate, expect and words of similar meaning.
All statements overview of the group other than statements of historical facts included in this document, andadescription of our including, without limitation, those regarding the companys financial business activities position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations including development plans and objectives relating to the companys products and services are forwardlooking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the 6 Chairmans statement 22 Operations review Business review company to be materially different from future results, performance 10 Global beer market trends 22 Latin America or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking 11 SABMillers market positions 24 Europe statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous Statements from our Chairman 13 Chief Executives review 26 North America assumptions regarding the companys present and future business and executive directors, an 18 Strategic priorities 28 Africa strategies and the environment in which the company will operate overview of our markets, 19 Key performance indicators 30 Asia in the future.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at strategy, our business model, 20 Principal risks 32 South Africa: Beverages the date of this document.
The company expressly disclaims any the way we manage risk, how 34 South Africa: Hotels and Gaming obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions our operations performed and 36 Chief Financial Of cers review to any forward-looking statements contained herein to re ect any our approach tosustainable 44 Sustainable development change in the companys expectations with regard thereto or any development and people 48 People change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The past business and financial performance of SABMiller plc is not to be relied on as an indication of its future 50 Board of directors Governance performance.
52 Executive committee 53 Directors report An introduction to the board 57 Corporate governance and executive committee and 65 Remuneration report details of the groups approach to corporate governance and remuneration 76 Statement of directors responsibilities 82 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Financial in respect of the consolidated financial 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements statements 153 Statement of directors responsibilities in statements 77 Independent auditors report to the respect of the company financial statements members of SABMiller plc on the 154 Independent auditors report to the members Audited financial statements, consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc on the company financial notes and other key data, and 78 Consolidated income statement statements The paper used in the report contains 75% recycled content, of which fide nitions of terms 79 Consolidated statement of 155 Balance sheet of SABMiller plc 50% is fide-inked post consumer and 25% is pre-consumer.
All of the comprehensive income 156 Notes to the company financial statements pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free process ECF.
Printed 80 Consolidated balance sheet 166 Five-year financial review in the UK by PurePrint using their and environmental 81 Consolidated cash ow statement 168 fide nitions printing technology, and vegetable inks were used throughout.
Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 170 Ordinary shareholding analyses and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certi ed.
Shareholder 171 Shareholders diary information 172 Administration IBC Cautionary statement Information, dates and contact details for shareholders Designed and produced by Further furthercreative.
co. uk Product photography by Jonathan Knowles www.
indd 2-3 07 06 2011 15:03 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 4 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Building locally, winning globally 50518 Covers.
