Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 91 vi Other post-employment obligations 1.
Accounting policies continued Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits toqualifying employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are iv Share-based compensation assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and The group operates a variety of equity-settled share-based contributions are made to the relevant funds over the expected compensation plans.
These comprise share option plans with and service lives of the employees entitled to those funds.
Actuarial gains without market performance conditions attached, performance share and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in award plans with market conditions attached and awards related actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise outside the to the employee element of the Broad-Based Black Economic income statement and are charged or credited to equity in other Empowerment BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
An expense is comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
These recognised to spread the fair value of each award granted after obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
7November 2002 over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
vii Termination benefits Acorresponding adjustment is made to equity over the remaining Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated vesting period.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
In addition the group has granted an equity-settled recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed share-based payment to retailers in relation to the retailer element of toterminating the employment of current employees according to a the BBBEE scheme.
A one-off charge has been recognised based on detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing the fair value at the grant date with a corresponding adjustment to termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage equity.
The charge will not be adjusted in the future.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after balance sheet date are discounted to present value in a similar The charges are based on the fair value of the awards as at the date manner to all long-term employee benefits.
of grant, as calculated by various binomial model calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
x Derivative financial instruments hedge accounting Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit The charges are not reversed if the options and awards are not orloss include all derivative financial instruments.
The derivative exercised because the market value of the shares is lower than the instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging option price at the date of grant.
purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange and interest rate risks, comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction foreign exchange contracts.
Such derivative instruments are used to costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the group in when the options are exercised.
line with the groups risk management policies.
The group also has derivatives embedded in other contracts primarily cross border foreign v Pension obligations currency supply contracts for raw materials.
The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
Thedefined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to ofthe defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the document at inception, the relationship between the hedged item estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality andthe hedging instrument as well as its risk management objectives corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions.
The group is benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating alsorequired to document and demonstrate that the relationship tothe terms of the related pension liability.
betweenthe hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
This effectiveness test is reperformed at each period end Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and toensure that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise highly effective.
outside of the income statement and are charged or credited to equityin other comprehensive income in the period in which they The group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the arise, with the exception of gains or losses arising from changes in fairvalue of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment thebenefits regarding past services, which are recognised in the fairvalue hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or income statement.
commitments cash flow hedge : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedge.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional i Fair value hedges onthe employees remaining in service for a specified period of time Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised in a hedging relationship to manage the groups interest rate risk to on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative offset the relevant changes The contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as in the fair value of the underlying hedged item attributable to the anexpense as the costs become payable.
The contributions are hedged risk in the income statement in the period incurred.
recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaidcontributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly acash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
effective are recorded in the income statement together with the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
