168 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Definitions Financial definitions The definition of free cash flow has been refined to exclude the purchase of shares from non-controlling interests and net investments Adjusted earnings in associates and joint ventures which result in a change in the Adjusted earnings are calculated by adjusting headline earnings groups effective ownership percentage, as these are deemed to asdefined below for the amortisation of intangible assets be discretionary expenditure.
Comparatives have been restated excluding software, integration and restructuring costs, the fair accordingly.
value movements in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied and other items which have been Group revenue treated as exceptional but not included above or as headline earnings This comprises revenue together with the groups share of revenue adjustments together with the groups share of joint ventures and from associates and joint ventures.
associates adjustments for similar items.
The tax and non-controlling interests in respect of these items are also adjusted.
Headline earnings Headline earnings are calculated by adjusting profit for the financial Adjusted EBITDA period attributable to equity holders of the parent for items in This comprises EBITDA as defined below before cash flows accordance with the South African Circular 3 2009 entitled Headline from exceptional items and includes dividends received from our Earnings.
Such items include impairments of non-current assets and joint venture, MillerCoors.
Dividends received from MillerCoors profits or losses on disposals of non-current assets and their related approximate to the groups share of the EBITDA of the MillerCoors tax and non-controlling interests.
This also includes the groups share joint venture.
of associates and joint ventures adjustments on the same basis.
Adjusted EBITDA margin Interest cover This is calculated by expressing adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of This is the ratio of adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net finance costs.
revenue plus the groups share of MillerCoors revenue.
Net debt Adjusted net finance costs This comprises gross debt including borrowings, borrowings-related This comprises net finance costs excluding fair value movements in derivative financial instruments, overdrafts and finance leases net of relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts.
and any exceptional finance charges or income.
Organic information Adjusted profit before tax Organic results and volumes exclude the first 12 months results and This comprises EBITA less adjusted net finance costs and less the volumes relating to acquisitions and the last 12 months results and groups share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs volumes relating to disposals.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Constant currency TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for Constant currency results have been determined by translating the its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming local currency denominated results for the year ended 31 March at reinvestment of dividends.
theexchange rates for the prior year.
Sales volumes EBITA In the determination and disclosure of sales volumes, the group This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation aggregates 100% of the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries and of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups its equity accounted percentage of all associates and joint ventures share of associates and joint ventures operating profit on a similar volumes.
Contract brewing volumes are excluded from volumes basis.
although revenue from contract brewing is included within group revenue.
Volumes exclude intra-group sales volumes.
This measure EBITA margin % of volumes is used for lager volumes, soft drinks volumes, other This is calculated by expressing EBITA as a percentage of group alcoholic beverage volumes and beverage volumes and is used in the revenue.
segmental analyses as it more closely aligns with the consolidated group revenue and EBITA disclosures.
EBITDA This comprises the net cash generated from operations before In the determination and disclosure of aggregated sales volumes, working capital movements.
This includes cash flows relating to the group aggregates 100% of the volumes of all consolidated exceptional items incurred in the year.
subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures.
Contract brewing volumes are excluded from aggregated volumes although EBITDA margin % revenue from contract brewing is included within group revenue.
This is calculated by expressing EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
Aggregated volumes exclude intra-group sales volumes.
This measure is used for aggregated beverage volumes and for aggregated lager Effective tax rate % volumes.
The effective tax rate is calculated by expressing tax before tax on exceptional items and on amortisation of intangible assets excluding software, including the groups share of associates and joint ventures tax on the same basis, as a percentage of adjusted profit before tax.
Free cash flow This comprises net cash generated from operating activities less cash paid for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, net investments in existing associates and joint ventures inboth cases only where there is no change in the groups effective ownership percentage and dividends paid to non-controlling interests plus cash received from the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and dividends received.
indd 168 07 06 2011 01:00 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 169 KPI definitions How we measure of direct emissions produced by the combustion of fuel e. g. coal, oil, gas and indirect emissions from the use of electricity and steam.
Total Shareholder Return TSR versus median of peer group Emissions are calculated using the internationally recognised WRI over three-year periods WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
All consolidated businesses TSR performance is measured by taking the percentage growth in are included on a 100% basis together with the equity accounted our TSR over the three-year period to the date aligned with the related percentage share of the MillerCoors jointventure.
measurement date of performance share awards for the excom, and deducting the percentage growth in the TSR of the median of our peer Cumulative financial benefits from our business capability group over the same period.
programme Incremental cash flows generated as a result of the adoption of new Growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS processes and systems including incremental revenues, reduced cost Growth in adjusted EPS is measured by comparing the adjusted of goods sold and overheads, reduced investment in working capital EPS for the current year with that of the prior year.
Adjusted EPS is and lower cost of capital investments.
measured using adjusted earnings divided by the basic number of shares in issue.
Adjusted earnings are measured using the definition on page 168.
KPI explanation of changes Free cash flow As noted in the prior years Annual Report, the reporting of premium Free cash flow is measured using the definition on page 168. and international premium brand performance was under review andno group KPI was reported.
Following the review a new KPI Proportion of our total lager volume from markets in which hasbeen introduced and is presented in this Annual Report, which wehave No.
2 national market share positions measures the growth in revenue from all premium brands, both local Lager volumes generated in markets where we have a number one or and global.
number two national beer market share position divided by total lager volumes.
Lager volumes are measured as defined on page 168.
There have been minor changes to the free cash flow definition as described in the definition on page 168.
The historical data for the Proportion of group EBITA from developing and emerging fossil fuel emissions KPI have been restated to reflect changes in economies our reporting protocol and developing best practice disclosure of EBITA generated in developing and emerging economies divided greenhouse gas emissions.
by group EBITA before corporate costs.
Developing and emerging economies are as defined by the International Monetary Fund IMF.
Non-financial definitions Organic growth in lager volumes Combined Code Organic growth in lager volumes is measured by comparing lager The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published by the volumes in the year with those in the prior year excluding the effects UKFinancial Reporting Council.
of acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page 168.
Economy segment Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the Group revenue growth organic, constant currency standard 100, brands with a weighted average market price which Growth in group revenue compared to the prior year is measured on fall below an index of 90 form the economy segment.
Normally, all a constant currency basis as defined on page 168 and excluding the brands in this segment will be local brands.
effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page 168.
Group revenue is defined on page 168. International brewers index The index of international brewers charts the share price progression Revenue growth in premium brands constant currency of the companys closest peers in the global brewing industry Growth in revenue from sales of premium brands compared to the Anheuser-Busch InBev Anheuser-Busch and InBev included prior year is measured on a constant currency basis as defined on separately, until the acquisition of Anheuser-Busch by InBev on page 168.
Premium brands are those in the premium segment as 17 November 2008, Carlsberg, Heineken and Molson Coors, defined on this page.
The index is weighted relative to the marketcapitalisation of the brewers as at 1 April 2008.
EBITA growth organic, constant currency EBITA growth compared to the prior year is measured on a constant Mainstream segment currency basis as defined on page 168 and excluding the effects of Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page standard 100, the mainstream segment is formed of brands with 168.
EBITA is defined on page 168. a weighted average market price which fall into the 90-109 band.
Mainstream brands tend to be local.
EBITA margin EBITA margin is defined on page 168.
PET PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic which is Hectolitres of water used at our breweries per hectolitre of used for bottling alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
lager produced Water used at our breweries divided by the volume of lager produced.
Premium segment worthmore segment in the USA All consolidated subsidiaries are included on a 100% basis together Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the with the equity accounted percentage share of the MillerCoors joint standard 100, brands with a weighted average market price which venture.
have an index of 110 form the premium segment.
The premium segment comprises both local, regional and global brands.
Fossil fuel emissions from energy used at our breweries per hectolitre of lager produced STRATE Fossil fuel emissions are measured by the total amount of carbon STRATE stands for Share Transactions Totally Electronic and is an dioxide CO in kilograms generated by our breweries divided by unlisted company owned by JSE Limited and Central Securities 2 the volume of lager produced.
The total amount of CO is the sum Depository Participants CSDP and exists to allow share transactions 2 in South Africa to be settled electronically.
