Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 171 Shareholders diary Financial reporting calendar and annual general meeting Interim management statement and annual general meeting July 2011 Announcement of interim results, for half-year to September November 2011 Interim management statement January 2012 Preliminary announcement of annual results May 2012 Annual financial statements published June 2012 Dividends Declared Paid Ordinary: Interim November December Final May August Unsolicited investment advice warning to shareholders Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
A 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA reported that the average amount lost by investors was around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of anyunsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports into the company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 6061234 or by completing an online form at: http: www.
uk Pages Doing Regulated Law Alerts form.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
South African shareholders may report such approaches to the Financial Services Board FSB on: Toll Free: 0800 110443 Facsimile: 012 347 0221 Email: info@fsb.
co. za Complete the FSB online complaint form which can be found on their website www.
