Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 85 The average exchange rates have been calculated based on the 1.
Accounting policies continued average of the exchange rates during the relevant year which havebeen weighted according to the phasing of revenue of the iv Transactions with non-controlling interests groups businesses.
With effect from 1 April 2010 transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactions with equity owners of the group.
ii Transactions and balances For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between The financial statements for each group company have been prepared any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or their functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in the transaction.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are equity where there is no loss of control.
retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date with the resultant translation differences being included in operating Previously transactions with non-controlling interests were treated as profit in the income statement other than those arising on financial transactions with parties external to the group.
Disposals therefore assets and liabilities which are recorded within net finance costs and resulted in gains or losses in profit or loss and purchases resulted those which are deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and inthe recognition of goodwill.
On disposal or partial disposal, a qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on nonproportionate interest in reserves attributable to the subsidiary monetary assets such as equity investments classified as available wasreclassified to profit or loss or directly to retained earnings.
forsale assets are included in other comprehensive income.
v Reduction in interests iii Overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures When the group ceases to have control, joint control or significant One-off items in the income and cash flow statements of overseas influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures expressed in currencies value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates of The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of exchange prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other items are subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, certain amounts previously reporting period.
Assets and liabilities of these undertakings are recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity translated at closing rates of exchange at each balance sheet date.
are accounted for as if the group had directly disposed of the related Alltranslation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of assets or liabilities.
This may mean that certain amounts previously opening net assets together with differences between income recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit statements translated at average and closing rates are recognised orloss.
asa separate component of equity.
For these purposes net assets include loans between group companies that form part of the net If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant investment, for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur influence is retained, or if the ownership interest in a joint venture is in the foreseeable future.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, any reduced but joint control is retained, only the proportionate share of related exchange differences in equity are reclassified to the income the carrying amount of the investment and of the amounts previously statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity Previously, when the group ceased to have control, joint control and translated at the closing rate.
orsignificant influence over an entity, the carrying amount of the investment at the date control, joint control or significant influence g Business combinations became its cost for the purposes of subsequently accounting for i Subsidiaries theretained interest as an associate, jointly controlled entity or The acquisition method is used to account for business combinations.
The identifiable net assets including intangibles are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of their fair value from the f Foreign exchange effective date of control, and the results of subsidiary undertakings i Foreign exchange translation acquired during the financial year are included in the groups results Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups from that date.
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reflecting Theconsolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable which is the groups presentational currency.
The exchange rates to assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities the US dollar used in preparing the consolidated financial statements acquired.
Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined were as follows: byreference to market values, where available, or by reference to Year ended Year ended thecurrent price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 obligations entered into, or by discounting expected future cash flows to present value, using either market rates or the risk-free rates and Average rate risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
South African rand ZAR 7.15 7.78 Colombian peso COP 1,881 2,031 The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the Euro 0.76 0.71 assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or Czech koruna CZK 19.04 18.45 assumed at the date of the acquisition, and also includes the groups Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.81 2.92 estimate of the fair value of any deferred consideration payable.
Polish zloty PLN 3.01 2.99 Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Where the business combination agreement provides for an adjustment to Closing rate thecost that is contingent on future events, the consideration South African rand ZAR 6.77 7.30 transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting Colombian peso COP 1,879 1,929 froma contingent consideration arrangement.
On an acquisition by Euro 0.71 0.74 acquisition basis, the group recognises any non-controlling interest Czech koruna CZK 17.27 18.87 inthe acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.80 2.84 proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
