Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 30 September 2011 Attributable to owners of the parent prepared at the end of the reporting period.
The accounting policies have Group accounting policies been consistently applied across the Group.
Control is achieved where Ordinary Share Other Retained Total General information shares premium reserves earnings equity the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies m m m m m The Sage Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the of an entity so as to benefit from its activities.
Group is one of the leading global suppliers of business management At 1 October 2010 13.2 499.8 259.3 877.1 1,649.4 The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included software and services to small and medium-sized enterprises.
Operating in in the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of 23 countries worldwide in Europe, North America, Southern Hemisphere Profit for the year 189.0 189.0 comprehensive income and Consolidated statement of cash flows and Asia.
Other comprehensive income: from the date of control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date The Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in that control ceases.
Currency translation differences 6.5 6.5 the UK.
The address of its registered office is North Park, Newcastle upon Actuarial gain on post employment benefit obligations 1.0 1.0 All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are Tyne, NE13 9AA.
Cash flow hedges 1.0 1.0 The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
c Business combinations Total comprehensive income The Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue for the year ended 30 September 2011 7.5 190.0 197.5 The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition by the Board of directors on 30 November 2011. method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred a Basis of preparation Transactions with owners: or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange Employee share option scheme: As an European Union EU listed company, The Sage Group plc is for control of the acquiree.
Any costs directly attributable to the business required to prepare its Group accounts using International Financial Proceeds from shares issued 13.4 13.4 combination are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
The Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
Value of employee services 3.2 3.2 acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet The accounts are also prepared in accordance with International Financial Equity movement of deferred income tax 1.7 1.7 the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Revised, Business Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations Combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Closed period share buyback programme 50.0 50.0 as endorsed by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 Dividends 104.0 104.0 Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition Total transactions with owners The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost convention date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair for the year ended 30 September 2011 13.4 152.5 139.1 except where adopted IFRS require an alternative treatment.
The principal value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
If, after At 30 September 2011 13.2 513.2 266.8 914.6 1,707.8 variations from the historical cost convention relate to share-based reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees payment charges, pensions and derivative financial instruments which identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost are measured at fair value.
Attributable to owners of the parent of the business combination, the difference is recognised directly in the Ordinary income statement.
Any subsequent adjustment to reflect changes in Share Other Retained Total The results of discontinued operations are shown as a single amount on shares premium reserves earnings equity consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments are the face of the Consolidated income statement comprising the post-tax m m m m m recognised in the income statement.
profit or loss of discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or loss At 1 October 2009 13.1 492.0 249.5 742.9 1,497.5 recognised either on measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the Group recognises any the disposal of the discontinued operation.
The Consolidated income non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the Profit for the year 227.3 227.3 statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Consolidated statement of cash flows, and the related notes for the prior Other comprehensive income: Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
year have been restated to exclude discontinued operations.
Assets and Currency translation differences 10.5 10.5 liabilities of disposal groups are classified as held for sale and are shown d Revenue recognition Actuarial loss on post employment benefit obligations 0.3 0.3 separately on the face of the Consolidated balance sheet.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or Cash flow hedges 0.7 0.7 Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2011 receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services Total comprehensive income The following standards, interpretations, and amendments to standards provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and for the year ended 30 September 2010 9.8 227.0 236.8 have been adopted in the financial statements.
None had any impact other sales related taxes.
on the Group results or financial position: The Group reports revenue under two revenue categories: Transactions with owners: IFRS IC interpretations Subscription revenues, which are recurring in nature and include Employee share option scheme: IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate combined software support contracts, maintenance and support, Proceeds from shares issued 0.1 7.8 7.9 IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers transaction services payment processing and hosted products: and Value of employee services 10.0 10.0 IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Software and software-related services revenue, which includes Equity movement of deferred income tax 3.1 3.1 Amendments to existing standards software licences, sale of professional services, business forms, Purchase of treasury shares 7.3 7.3 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009 hardware and training.
Dividends 98.6 98.6 Amendment to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS Subscriptions revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the Total transactions with owners Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment term of the subscription contract including non-specified upgrades when for the year ended 30 September 2010 0.1 7.8 92.8 84.9 included.
Revenue not recognised in the income statement under this Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation and At 30 September 2010 13.2 499.8 259.3 877.1 1,649.4 policy is classified as deferred income in the balance sheet.
Classification of Rights Issues Software licences the Group recognises the revenue allocable to The principal IFRS accounting policies of the Group are set out below: software licences and specified upgrades when all the following conditions b Basis of consolidation have been satisfied: The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial statements The Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries rewards of ownership of the licence: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 73 Financial statements Group accounting policies continued d Revenue recognition continued are reviewed for impairment only when events indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
The Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over In an impairment test, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit the goods sold: or asset is estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
The The amount of revenue can be measured reliably: recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value-in-use in the Group.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
transaction will flow: and In determining a cash-generating units or assets value-in-use, estimated The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax can be measured reliably.
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of Where appropriate the Group provides a reserve for estimated returns money and risks specific to the cash-generating unit or asset that have not under the standard acceptance terms at the time the revenue is recorded.
already been included in the estimate of future cash flows.
Where software is sold with after-sales service, the consideration is g Intangible assets arising on business combinations allocated between the different elements on a relative fair value basis.
The revenue allocated to each element is recognised as outlined above.
Intangible assets are recognised when brands, technology and or customer related contractual cash flows exist, along with any other Other products which includes business forms and hardware revenue intangibles acquired on a business combination, and their fair value can is recognised as the products are shipped.
Other services which includes the sale of professional services and Intangible assets arising on business combinations are stated at cost less training revenue associated with the transaction is recognised by accumulated amortisation and impairment losses if applicable.
reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period.
The outcome of a transaction can be estimated reliably Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the income statement on when all the following conditions are satisfied: a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each intangible asset.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The amount of revenue can be measured reliably: The estimated useful lives are as follows: It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: Brand names 3 to 20 years The state of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date Technology In process R&D IPR&D 3 to 7 years can be measured reliably: and Customer relationships 4 to 15 years The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the Fully amortised intangible assets which are no longer in use are eliminated transaction can be measured reliably.
from the balance sheet and presented as a disposal within the notes to e Goodwill the accounts.
Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess h Intangible assets other of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of the Groups share of less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses if applicable.
the identifiable net assets acquired over the fair value of the Groups share Software assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated of the identifiable net assets.
In the case of a bargain purchase, when the useful lives, which do not exceed seven years.
consideration is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the statement of i Internally generated intangible assets research and development comprehensive income.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated expenditure impairment losses.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs expected period in which it is incurred.
to benefit from the synergies of the combination, and the allocation An internally generated intangible asset arising from the development represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored.
of software is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: Goodwill previously written-off directly to reserves under UK GAAP prior to It is probable that the asset will create future economic benefits: 1 October 1998 has not been reinstated and is not recycled to the income statement on the disposal of the business to which it relates.
Gains and The development costs can be measured reliably: losses on disposal of the entity include the carrying amount of the foreign Technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset can exchange on the goodwill relating to the entity sold except for goodwill be demonstrated: taken to reserves prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 October 2004.
There is the intention to complete the asset and use or sell it: There is the ability to use or sell the asset: and f Impairment of assets Adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purposes of development and to use or sell the asset are available.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates is tested annually for impairment or when Internally generated intangible assets are amortised over their estimated events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
useful lives which is between three to six years on a straight-line basis.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, The carrying values of property, plant and equipment, investments development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period measured using a cost basis and intangible assets other than goodwill in which it is incurred.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Group accounting policies continued d Revenue recognition continued are reviewed for impairment only when events indicate the carrying value j Property, plant and equipment effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced may be impaired.
through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss The Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated is recognised in the income statement within selling and administrative degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over depreciation and impairment losses if applicable.
Depreciation on In an impairment test, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written-off the goods sold: property, plant and equipment is provided on a straight-line basis down or asset is estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
The against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent to an assets residual value over its useful economic life as follows: The amount of revenue can be measured reliably: recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the recoveries of amounts previously written-off are credited against selling value-in-use in the Group.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the Freehold buildings 50 years and administrative expenses in the income statement.
that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
transaction will flow: and Long leasehold buildings Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently In determining a cash-generating units or assets value-in-use, estimated The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction and improvements over period of lease measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax can be measured reliably.
Plant and equipment 2 to 7 years discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of o Taxation Motor vehicles 4 years Where appropriate the Group provides a reserve for estimated returns money and risks specific to the cash-generating unit or asset that have not under the standard acceptance terms at the time the revenue is recorded.
Office equipment 5 to 7 years Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable already been included in the estimate of future cash flows.
Where software is sold with after-sales service, the consideration is Freehold land is not depreciated.
g Intangible assets arising on business combinations allocated between the different elements on a relative fair value basis.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, The revenue allocated to each element is recognised as outlined above.
Intangible assets are recognised when brands, technology and or at the end of each reporting period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement customer related contractual cash flows exist, along with any other Other products which includes business forms and hardware revenue because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or intangibles acquired on a business combination, and their fair value can is recognised as the products are shipped.
k Inventories deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never therefore be measured reliably.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after Other services which includes the sale of professional services and Intangible assets arising on business combinations are stated at cost less using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the making allowances for slow moving or obsolete items.
training revenue associated with the transaction is recognised by accumulated amortisation and impairment losses if applicable.
end of the reporting period.
reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the Cost includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and reporting period.
The outcome of a transaction can be estimated reliably Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the income statement on Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Cost is calculated when all the following conditions are satisfied: a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each intangible asset.
of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding using the first-in-first-out method.
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and are accounted for The amount of revenue can be measured reliably: l Cash and cash equivalents using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally The estimated useful lives are as follows: It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets For the purpose of preparation of the statement of cash flows and transaction will flow to the Group: Brand names 3 to 20 years are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and The state of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date Technology In process R&D IPR&D 3 to 7 years available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity period of three can be measured reliably: and Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are an integral part of a subsidiarys Customer relationships 4 to 15 years The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business cash management are included in cash and cash equivalents where they Fully amortised intangible assets which are no longer in use are eliminated transaction can be measured reliably.
combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects have a legal right of set-off and there is an intention to settle net, against from the balance sheet and presented as a disposal within the notes to neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
positive cash balances, otherwise bank overdrafts are classified as e Goodwill the accounts.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess h Intangible assets other arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest m Financial assets to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of the Groups share of The Group classifies its financial assets in the category loans and the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses if applicable.
the identifiable net assets acquired over the fair value of the Groups share receivables.
This classification is due to the purpose for which the financial Software assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each of the identifiable net assets.
In the case of a bargain purchase, when the assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its useful lives, which do not exceed seven years.
reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable consideration is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary financial assets at initial recognition.
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the statement of i Internally generated intangible assets research and development Loans and receivables to be recovered.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated expenditure Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed impairment losses.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on tax Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs expected They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than period in which it is incurred.
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the to benefit from the synergies of the combination, and the allocation 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
These are classified as An internally generated intangible asset arising from the development reporting period.
Deferred tax and current tax are charged or credited to represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade of software is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: profit or loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income Goodwill previously written-off directly to reserves under UK GAAP prior to to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
It is probable that the asset will create future economic benefits: note n and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet note l. 1 October 1998 has not been reinstated and is not recycled to the income Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right statement on the disposal of the business to which it relates.
Gains and The development costs can be measured reliably: n Trade receivables and trade payables to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they losses on disposal of the entity include the carrying amount of the foreign Technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset can Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group exchange on the goodwill relating to the entity sold except for goodwill be demonstrated: measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
taken to reserves prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 October 2004.
There is the intention to complete the asset and use or sell it: provision for impairment.
In recognising income tax assets and liabilities, management There is the ability to use or sell the asset: and f Impairment of assets makes estimates of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there Adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purposes of transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts development and to use or sell the asset are available.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit Where the final outcome of such matters is different, or expected to be due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial to which the goodwill relates is tested annually for impairment or when Internally generated intangible assets are amortised over their estimated different, from previous assessments made by management, a change difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
to the carrying value of income tax assets and liabilities will be recorded or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, in the period in which such a determination is made.
The carrying values considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount The carrying values of property, plant and equipment, investments development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period of income tax assets and liabilities are disclosed separately in the of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and measured using a cost basis and intangible assets other than goodwill in which it is incurred.
the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 75 Financial statements Group accounting policies continued p Financial instruments and hedge accounting q Foreign currency translation Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provision in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the of the instrument.
entity operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the Consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position Hedge accounting of each entity are expressed in Sterling, which is the functional The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposures to currency of the parent Company and the presentation currency interest rate risk.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value, and are for the Consolidated financial statements.
subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of the reporting period.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted for in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign in line with the nature of the hedging arrangement.
Derivatives are currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates intended to be highly effective in mitigating interest rate risk, and hedge of the transactions.
At the end of each reporting period, monetary items accounting is adopted where the required hedge documentation is denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing in place and the relevant test criteria are met.
Changes in fair value at the end of the reporting period.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates are recognised immediately in the income statement.
prevailing on the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary Derivative instruments are used to manage the Groups exposure items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency to changes in cash flows arising from movements in interest rates.
The derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, and hedge Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items and on accounting is used where it has been shown that the hedge relationship the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the is highly effective.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary in a cash flow hedge relationship are recognised in other comprehensive items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except income and subsequently recognised in the income statement in the for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect same period that the hedged item affects income.
of which gains and losses are recognised outside profit or loss.
For such When a hedging instrument is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in recognised outside profit or loss.
equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations including a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative comparatives are expressed in Sterling using exchange rates prevailing gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to at the end of the reporting period.
Income and expense items including the income statement.
comparatives are translated at the average exchange rates for the In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue period, unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly during that period, derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is managed Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and currencies.
translated at the closing rate.
The Group also operates net investment hedges, using foreign currency When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange borrowings.
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be statement as part of the gain or loss on sale, with the exception of an effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The exchange differences recorded in equity prior to the transition to IFRS ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
On disposal on 1 October 2004, in accordance with IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of the net investment, the foreign exchange gains and losses on the of International Financial Reporting Standards.
hedging instrument are recognised in the income statement from equity.
r Borrowings Shares repurchased for cancellation Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less The Group also makes use of contingent contracts for the purchase attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestof its own shares.
These derivative contracts are accounted for as bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference equity transactions and the contracts are not stated at their market values.
between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income The present value of the obligation to purchase the shares is recognised statement over the period of borrowing on an effective interest basis.
in full at the inception of the contract, even when that obligation is conditional.
Any subsequent reduction in the total obligation arising from the early termination of a contract is credited back to equity at the time of termination.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Group accounting policies continued p Financial instruments and hedge accounting q Foreign currency translation s Leasing u Share-based payments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provision in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at of the instrument.
For the purpose of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions Consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the Hedge accounting of each entity are expressed in Sterling, which is the functional as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposures to currency of the parent Company and the presentation currency finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares interest rate risk.
a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
that will eventually vest allowing for the effect of non-market-based subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of the reporting period.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions Finance charges are charged directly as finance costs to the Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted for in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign income statement.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes or the Monte Carlo pricing in line with the nature of the hedging arrangement.
Derivatives are currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates models.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on intended to be highly effective in mitigating interest rate risk, and hedge The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases of the transactions.
At the end of each reporting period, monetary items managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise accounting is adopted where the required hedge documentation is are depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life and the denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing restrictions and behavioural considerations.
in place and the relevant test criteria are met.
Changes in fair value lease term.
at the end of the reporting period.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting The Group also provides certain employees with the ability to purchase the Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Groups ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value at the on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits prevailing on the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary date of the grant.
The Group records an expense, based on its estimate Derivative instruments are used to manage the Groups exposure received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency of the discount related to shares expected to vest, on a straight-line basis to changes in cash flows arising from movements in interest rates.
lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, and hedge Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items and on t Retirement benefit costs accounting is used where it has been shown that the hedge relationship At the end of the reporting period, the entity revises its estimates for the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the is highly effective.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments The Group operates money purchase pension schemes defined the number of options expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary in a cash flow hedge relationship are recognised in other comprehensive contribution schemes for certain of its employees.
The contributions the revision to original estimates, if any, in the Income statement, with items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except income and subsequently recognised in the income statement in the are charged to the income statement as incurred.
for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect same period that the hedged item affects income.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs The Group also operates a small defined benefit pension scheme and of which gains and losses are recognised outside profit or loss.
For such When a hedging instrument is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when other retirement benefit schemes.
The assets of these schemes are held non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in the options are exercised.
separately from the assets of the Group.
The costs of providing benefits recognised outside profit or loss.
equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast under these schemes are determined using the projected unit credit For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, v Dividends transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations including a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a liability in the period The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and comparatives are expressed in Sterling using exchange rates prevailing gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
curtailments are included in selling and administrative expenses in the at the end of the reporting period.
Past service costs are similarly included where the comparatives are translated at the average exchange rates for the w Provisions In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis period, unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly during that period, A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
The expected return on assets of funded defined in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when benefit pension schemes and the imputed interest on pension plan are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net it can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic liabilities comprise the pension element of the net finance cost income comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Currency exposure benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, in the income statement.
arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is managed Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, changes operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value currencies.
in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience and changes in translated at the closing rate.
of money and where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of comprehensive The Group also operates net investment hedges, using foreign currency When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange income in full in the period in which they arise.
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income The Groups segmental analysis has been derived using the information hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined statement as part of the gain or loss on sale, with the exception of used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Groups Executive an effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The benefit pension scheme is the present value of the defined benefit exchange differences recorded in equity prior to the transition to IFRS Committee has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker as ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
On disposal obligation and unrecognised past service cost and future administration on 1 October 2004, in accordance with IFRS 1, First-time Adoption the committee is responsible for the allocation of resources to operating of the net investment, the foreign exchange gains and losses on the costs at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
of International Financial Reporting Standards.
segments and assessing their performance.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent r Borrowings actuaries.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined Shares repurchased for cancellation Segment assets include all intangible assets, property, plant and by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less The Group also makes use of contingent contracts for the purchase equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables, cash and cash of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency attributable transaction costs.
These derivative contracts are accounted for as equivalents and tax assets.
Segment liabilities comprise mainly trade and in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference equity transactions and the contracts are not stated at their market values.
other payables, retirement benefit obligations, tax liabilities and certain approximate to the terms of the related pension liability.
between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income The present value of the obligation to purchase the shares is recognised borrowings that can be attributed to the segment but exclude borrowings statement over the period of borrowing on an effective interest basis.
in full at the inception of the contract, even when that obligation is that are for general corporate purposes.
The calculation of the defined benefit obligation of a defined benefit plan conditional.
Any subsequent reduction in the total obligation arising from requires estimation of future events, for example salary and pension Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment the early termination of a contract is credited back to equity at the time increases, inflation and mortality rates.
In the event that future experience and intangible assets.
The profit measure used by the Executive of termination.
does not bear out the estimates made in previous years, an adjustment Committee is Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EBITA.
will be made to the plans defined benefit obligation in future periods which The operating segments are reported in a manner which is consistent could have a material effect on the Group.
The carrying amounts of assets with the operating segments produced for internal management reporting.
and liabilities relating to defined benefit plans, together with the key At 30 September 2011 the Group was organised into geographical assumptions used in the calculation of the defined benefit obligations segments based on the location of assets.
relating to those plans, are disclosed in note 8.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 77 Financial statements Group accounting policies continued y Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations The amendment to IAS 24, the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 and the amendment to IFRIC 14 are the only amendments endorsed by A non-current asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale the EU at the date of approval of these Consolidated financial statements.
if the Group will recover the carrying amount principally through a sale The other IFRSs, IFRS IC interpretations and amendments to existing transaction rather than through continuing use.
A non-current asset standards are not yet endorsed.
or disposal group classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
If the asset A Critical accounting estimates and judgements or disposal group is acquired as part of a business combination In preparing the Consolidated financial statements, management has to it is initially measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Assets and liabilities make judgements on how to apply the Groups accounting policies and of disposal groups classified as held for sale are shown separately on make estimates about the future.
The critical judgements that have been the face of the balance sheet.
made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the Consolidated financial The results of discontinued operations are shown as a single amount statements and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a on the face of the income statement comprising the post-tax profit or significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of loss of discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or loss recognised assets and liabilities in the next financial year, are discussed below: either on measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal Acquisitions of the discontinued operation.
The Consolidated income statement, the When acquiring a business, the Group has to make judgements and best Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, the Consolidated estimates about the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
The Group statement of cash flows, and the related notes for the prior year have been seeks appropriate competent and professional advice before making any restated to exclude discontinued operations.
z Adoption of new and revised IFRS Impairment reviews New and amended standards not yet mandatory for the Group The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following in accordance with the accounting policy stated above.
The recoverable standards, interpretations and amendments were issued but not yet amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on mandatory for the Group and early adoption has not been applied.
These calculations require the use of estimates note 5.1. International Accounting Standards IAS IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements Income taxes IAS 28 revised 2011, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for income taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the IFRS 9, Financial Instruments ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendments to existing standards Amendment to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statement Amendment to IAS 12, Income Taxes Amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits Amendment to IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 It is considered that the above standards, amendments and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group but will increase the level of disclosure to be made in the financial statements.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Group accounting policies continued Results for the year y Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations The amendment to IAS 24, the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 1 Segment information and the amendment to IFRIC 14 are the only amendments endorsed by A non-current asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale In accordance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, information for the Groups operating segments has been derived using the information used by the EU at the date of approval of these Consolidated financial statements.
if the Group will recover the carrying amount principally through a sale the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Groups Executive Committee has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker as the committee The other IFRSs, IFRS IC interpretations and amendments to existing transaction rather than through continuing use.
A non-current asset is responsible for the allocation of resources to operating segments and assessing their performance.
The profit measure used by the Executive standards are not yet endorsed.
or disposal group classified as held for sale is measured at the lower Committee is Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EBITA which excludes the effects of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
If the asset the net amortisation of software development expenditure on a constant currency basis.
Operating segments are reported in a manner which is A Critical accounting estimates and judgements or disposal group is acquired as part of a business combination consistent with the operating segments produced for internal management reporting.
In preparing the Consolidated financial statements, management has to it is initially measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Assets and liabilities The operating segments have been restated for the year ended 30 September 2010 in line with the Executive Committee changes made during make judgements on how to apply the Groups accounting policies and of disposal groups classified as held for sale are shown separately on the current financial year.
The main change is that UK & Ireland is no longer a separately identifiable segment and has been combined with Mainland make estimates about the future.
Europe into a new Europe segment.
made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the Consolidated financial The results of discontinued operations are shown as a single amount statements and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a The Group is organised into three operating segments.
The UK is the home country of the parent.
The main operations in the principal territories are on the face of the income statement comprising the post-tax profit or significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of as follows: loss of discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or loss recognised assets and liabilities in the next financial year, are discussed below: Europe UK & Ireland, France, Spain, Germany, Switzerland, Poland and Portugal either on measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal Acquisitions of the discontinued operation.
The Consolidated income statement, the North America US and Canada When acquiring a business, the Group has to make judgements and best Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, the Consolidated AAMEA Africa, Australia, Middle East and Asia estimates about the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
The Group statement of cash flows, and the related notes for the prior year have been The Africa operations are principally based in South Africa, the Middle East and Asia operations are principally based in Singapore, Malaysia, UAE and seeks appropriate competent and professional advice before making any restated to exclude discontinued operations.
The revenue analysis in the table below is based on the location of the customer which is not materially different from the location where the order such allocations.
is received and where the assets are located.
z Adoption of new and revised IFRS Impairment reviews New and amended standards not yet mandatory for the Group The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, The tables below show a segmental analysis of the results for continuing operations.
For information relating to discontinued operations refer to note 15.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following in accordance with the accounting policy stated above.
The recoverable 1.1 Revenue by segment standards, interpretations and amendments were issued but not yet amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on mandatory for the Group and early adoption has not been applied.
These calculations require the use of estimates Year ended 30 September 2011 Year ended 30 September 2010 Change note 5.1. International Accounting Standards IAS NonNonIAS 27 revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements Income taxes GAAP GAAP Organic NonUnderlying Organic organic Underlying organic IAS 28 revised 2011, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
revenue IFRS GAAP IFRS Currency at constant revenue constant IFRS at constant constant 1 2 1 Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision statutory adjustment organic statutory impact currency adjustment currency statutory currency currency International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for income taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the m m m m m m m m % % % IFRS 9, Financial Instruments ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of Subscription revenue IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues by segment IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the Europe 500.9 500.9 476.0 2.1 478.1 0.6 477.5 5% 5% 5% final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities North America 299.7 15.1 284.6 296.0 8.1 287.9 15.0 272.9 1% 4% 4% recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement AAMEA 75.9 3.7 72.2 61.6 3.9 65.5 1.6 63.9 23% 16% 13% provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee Subscription revenue 876.5 18.8 857.7 833.6 2.1 831.5 17.2 814.3 5% 5% 5% IFRS IC interpretations Software and software-related Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding services revenue by segment Requirement SSRS Amendments to existing standards Europe 294.8 294.8 283.5 2.2 285.7 0.7 285.0 4% 3% 3% Amendment to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS North America 91.2 9.0 82.2 96.6 3.3 93.3 8.4 84.9 -6% -2% -3% Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures AAMEA 71.6 1.7 69.9 64.0 3.1 67.1 1.4 65.7 12% 7% 6% Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statement SSRS revenue 457.6 10.7 446.9 444.1 2.0 446.1 10.5 435.6 3% 3% 3% Amendment to IAS 12, Income Taxes Total revenue by segment Amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits Europe 795.7 795.7 759.5 4.3 763.8 1.3 762.5 5% 4% 4% Amendment to IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures North America 390.9 24.1 366.8 392.6 11.4 381.2 23.4 357.8 0% 3% 3% Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 AAMEA 147.5 5.4 142.1 125.6 7.0 132.6 3.0 129.6 17% 11% 10% It is considered that the above standards, amendments and Total revenue 1,334.1 29.5 1,304.6 1,277.7 0.1 1,277.6 27.7 1,249.9 4% 4% 4% interpretations will not have a significant effect on the results 1 Organic revenue adjustment excludes the contributions of current and prior year acquisitions, disposals and non-core products.
or net assets of the Group but will increase the level of disclosure 2 Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2010 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2011 of $1.61 1 and 1.15 1 to be made in the financial statements.
to facilitate the comparison of results.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 79 Financial statements Results for the year continued 1 Segment information continued 1.2 Profit by segment Restated Year ended 30 September 2011 Year ended 30 September 2010 Change Underlying Underlying Non-GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS Non-GAAP EBITA Non-GAAP statutory statutory Non-GAAP statutory EBITA constant operating Non-GAAP operating EBITA Currency operating EBITA constant 1 1 2 currency profit Adj EBITA profit Adj reported impact profit reported currency m m m m m m m m % % % Profit by segment Europe 213.7 15.4 229.1 194.8 17.6 212.4 1.7 214.1 10% 8% 7% North America 94.2 5.5 99.7 83.0 10.0 93.0 3.2 89.8 13% 7% 11% AAMEA 35.4 0.9 36.3 31.2 0.6 31.8 1.0 32.8 13% 14% 11% Total profit 343.3 21.8 365.1 309.0 28.2 337.2 0.5 336.7 11% 8% 8% 1 Adjustment includes the effects of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and the net amortisation of software development expenditure.
2 Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2010 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2011 of $1.61 1 and 1.15 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
North Europe America AAMEA Group Year ended 30 September 2011 Note m m m m The results by segment were as follows: Continuing operations Revenue 795.7 390.9 147.5 1,334.1 Segment operating profit 2.1 213.7 94.2 35.4 343.3 Finance income 2.3 1.9 Finance costs 2.3 14.4 Profit before taxation 330.8 Income tax expense 3 74.8 Profit for the year from continuing operations 256.0 No single customer contributes more than 10% of the Groups revenue in the current or prior year.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP EBITA to IFRS statutory operating profit Non-GAAP EBITA 229.1 99.7 36.3 365.1 Net amortisation of software development expenditure 0.1 0.1 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 15.3 5.5 0.9 21.7 Operating profit 213.7 94.2 35.4 343.3 EBITA measure Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation excludes the effects of: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets: and Net amortisation of software development expenditure.
North Restated Europe America AAMEA Group Year ended 30 September 2010 Note m m m m The results by segment were as follows: Continuing operations Revenue 759.5 392.6 125.6 1,277.7 Segment operating profit 2.1 194.8 83.0 31.2 309.0 Finance income 2.3 3.3 Finance costs 2.3 13.4 Profit before taxation 298.9 Income tax expense 3 84.4 Profit for the year 214.5 80 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Results for the year continued North 1 Segment information continued Restated Europe America AAMEA Group 1.2 Profit by segment Year ended 30 September 2010 m m m m Restated Reconciliation of Non-GAAP EBITA to IFRS statutory operating profit Year ended 30 September 2011 Year ended 30 September 2010 Change Non-GAAP EBITA at constant exchange rates 214.1 89.8 32.8 336.7 Underlying Underlying Non-GAAP Impacts of movements in foreign currency exchange rates 1.7 3.2 1.0 0.5 IFRS IFRS IFRS Non-GAAP EBITA Non-GAAP statutory statutory Non-GAAP statutory EBITA Non-GAAP EBITA 212.4 93.0 31.8 337.2 constant operating Non-GAAP operating EBITA Currency operating EBITA constant 1 1 2 currency profit Adj EBITA profit Adj reported impact profit reported currency Net amortisation of software development expenditure 0.3 0.1 0.4 m m m m m m m m % % % Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 17.3 9.9 0.6 27.8 Profit by segment Operating profit 194.8 83.0 31.2 309.0 Europe 213.7 15.4 229.1 194.8 17.6 212.4 1.7 214.1 10% 8% 7% North America 94.2 5.5 99.7 83.0 10.0 93.0 3.2 89.8 13% 7% 11% 1.3 Assets and liabilities by segment AAMEA 35.4 0.9 36.3 31.2 0.6 31.8 1.0 32.8 13% 14% 11% North Europe America AAMEA Group Total profit 343.3 21.8 365.1 309.0 28.2 337.2 0.5 336.7 11% 8% 8% Year ended 30 September 2011 Note m m m m 1 Adjustment includes the effects of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and the net amortisation of software development expenditure.
The assets and liabilities by segment were as follows: 2 Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2010 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2011 of $1.61 1 and 1.15 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Segment assets 1,261.4 1,111.7 119.1 2,492.2 North Segment liabilities 518.1 204.4 73.4 795.9 Europe America AAMEA Group Segment net assets 743.3 907.3 45.7 1,696.3 Year ended 30 September 2011 Note m m m m Unallocated liabilities The results by segment were as follows: Non-current assets classified as held for sale 15.2 251.1 Continuing operations Non-current liabilities classified as held for sale 15.2 49.7 Revenue 795.7 390.9 147.5 1,334.1 Corporate borrowings 189.9 Segment operating profit 2.1 213.7 94.2 35.4 343.3 Total net assets 1,707.8 Finance income 2.3 1.9 Other segment information by segment was as follows: Finance costs 2.3 14.4 Capital expenditure property, plant and equipment 6 14.9 8.2 2.4 25.5 Profit before taxation 330.8 Capital expenditure intangible assets 5.2 2.5 6.8 9.3 Income tax expense 3 74.8 Depreciation 6 14.0 5.6 2.2 21.8 Profit for the year from continuing operations 256.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.2 17.2 10.0 0.9 28.1 No single customer contributes more than 10% of the Groups revenue in the current or prior year.
Other non-cash expenses share-based payments 14.2 2.0 0.8 0.4 3.2 Segment assets include all intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and tax Reconciliation of Non-GAAP EBITA to IFRS statutory operating profit assets.
Segment liabilities comprise mainly trade and other payables, deferred income, retirement benefit obligations, tax liabilities and certain borrowings Non-GAAP EBITA 229.1 99.7 36.3 365.1 that can be attributed to the segment but exclude borrowings that are for general corporate purposes.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to Net amortisation of software development expenditure 0.1 0.1 property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 15.3 5.5 0.9 21.7 Operating profit 213.7 94.2 35.4 343.3 North Europe America AAMEA Group EBITA measure Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation excludes the effects of: Year ended 30 September 2010 Note m m m m Amortisation of acquired intangible assets: and The assets and liabilities by segment were as follows: Net amortisation of software development expenditure.
Segment assets 1,133.6 1,457.0 130.8 2,721.4 North Restated Europe America Segment liabilities 484.5 255.3 86.2 826.0 AAMEA Group Year ended 30 September 2010 Note m m m m Segment net assets 649.1 1,201.7 44.6 1,895.4 The results by segment were as follows: Unallocated liabilities Continuing operations Corporate borrowings 246.0 Revenue 759.5 392.6 125.6 1,277.7 Total net assets 1,649.4 Segment operating profit 2.1 194.8 83.0 31.2 309.0 Other segment information by segment was as follows: Finance income 2.3 3.3 Capital expenditure property, plant and equipment 6 18.9 8.2 1.3 28.4 Finance costs 2.3 13.4 Capital expenditure intangible assets 5.2 1.3 5.8 7.1 Profit before taxation 298.9 Depreciation 6 14.1 5.8 2.3 22.2 Income tax expense 3 84.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.2 19.4 22.4 0.6 42.4 Profit for the year 214.5 Other non-cash expenses share-based payments 14.2 6.7 2.7 0.6 10.0 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 81 Financial statements Results for the year continued 2 Profit before tax 2.1 Operating profit Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit Note m m Staff costs 2.2 611.6 66.7 593.0 63.6 Inventories Cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales 7.1 12.7 9.0 13.7 8.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Owned assets 6 21.3 0.7 21.1 0.9 Under finance leases 6 0.5 0.2 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding amortisation of development expenditure 5.2 28.0 8.7 33.0 9.0 Amortisation of development expenditure 5.2 0.1 0.4 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.5 0.2 Profit on disposal of intangible assets 1.3 0.7 Other operating lease rentals payable Plant and machinery 6 2.5 3.0 0.1 Property 6 27.5 1.9 31.4 2.1 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 2.3 0.1 5.3 0.1 Net foreign exchange losses gains 0.4 0.1 Research and development expenditure 151.9 14.0 145.9 13.0 Services provided by the Groups auditor and network firms During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor at costs as detailed below: 2011 2010 m m Fees payable to the Company auditor for the audit of parent Company and consolidated accounts 2.0 1.9 Fees payable to the Company auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Total audit fees 2.2 2.1 Tax services and tax compliance work 1.4 1.5 Total fees 3.6 3.6 The total audit fee for the Group, including the audit of overseas subsidiaries, was 2.2m 2010: 2.1m.
The Boards policy in respect of the procurement of non-audit services for the Groups auditor is set out on pages 49 and 50.
2.2 Employees and directors Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations 2011 2011 2010 2010 Average monthly number of people employed including directors number number number number By territory: Europe 7,806 7,551 North America 2,754 1,180 2,800 1,175 AAMEA 1,825 1,730 12,385 1,180 12,081 1,175 82 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Results for the year continued Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued 2 Profit before tax operations operations operations operations 2.1 Operating profit 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m Staff costs including directors on service contracts Note m m Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations Wages and salaries 502.7 55.1 480.8 51.4 2011 2010 2011 2010 Social security costs 93.9 10.3 89.1 12.0 m m The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit Note m m Share-based payments 14.2 3.2 0.1 9.8 0.2 Staff costs 2.2 611.6 66.7 593.0 63.6 Other pension costs 8 11.8 1.2 13.3 Inventories 611.6 66.7 593.0 63.6 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales 7.1 12.7 9.0 13.7 8.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2011 2010 Owned assets 6 21.3 0.7 21.1 0.9 Key management compensation m m Under finance leases 6 0.5 0.2 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 7.3 7.9 Amortisation of intangible assets Post employment benefits 1.0 0.8 excluding amortisation of development expenditure 5.2 28.0 8.7 33.0 9.0 Share-based payments 1.7 4.1 Amortisation of development expenditure 5.2 0.1 0.4 10.0 12.8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.5 0.2 The key management figures given above include directors.
Key management personnel are deemed to be members of the Executive Committee as Profit on disposal of intangible assets 1.3 0.7 shown on page 5.
Other operating lease rentals payable Plant and machinery 6 2.5 3.0 0.1 2.3 Finance income and costs Property 6 27.5 1.9 31.4 2.1 Restated 2011 2010 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 2.3 0.1 5.3 0.1 m m Net foreign exchange losses gains 0.4 0.1 Finance income interest income on short-term deposits 1.9 3.3 Research and development expenditure 151.9 14.0 145.9 13.0 Finance costs: Services provided by the Groups auditor and network firms Finance costs on bank borrowings 4.3 7.3 During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor at costs as detailed below: Finance costs on US senior loan notes 8.7 4.8 2011 2010 m m Amortisation of issue costs 1.4 1.3 Fees payable to the Company auditor for the audit of parent Company and consolidated accounts 2.0 1.9 Finance costs 14.4 13.4 Fees payable to the Company auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Net finance costs 12.5 10.1 Total audit fees 2.2 2.1 Tax services and tax compliance work 1.4 1.5 3 Income tax expense Total fees 3.6 3.6 Restated 2011 2010 The total audit fee for the Group, including the audit of overseas subsidiaries, was 2.2m 2010: 2.1m.
Analysis of charge in the year Note m m The Boards policy in respect of the procurement of non-audit services for the Groups auditor is set out on pages 49 and 50.
Current tax Current year 110.5 89.3 2.2 Employees and directors Adjustment in respect of prior year 37.5 4.4 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations Current tax 73.0 93.7 2011 2011 2010 2010 Average monthly number of people employed including directors number number number number Deferred tax By territory: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.0 7.1 Europe 7,806 7,551 Adjustment in respect of prior year 3.8 2.2 North America 2,754 1,180 2,800 1,175 Deferred tax 9 1.8 9.3 AAMEA 1,825 1,730 12,385 1,180 12,081 1,175 Income tax expense 74.8 84.4 Current tax adjustments in respect of prior years of 37.5m reflect the resolution of a number of historical tax matters with the tax authorities.
Restated Note 2011 2010 Tax on items credited to other comprehensive income m m Deferred tax credit on share options 14.5 1.7 3.1 Current tax credit on exchange movement 3.6 Total tax on items credited to other comprehensive income 1.7 6.7 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 83 Financial statements Results for the year continued 3 Income tax expense continued Restated The tax for the year is lower 2010: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax 2011 2010 in the UK 27% 2010: 28%.
The differences are explained below: m m Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 330.8 298.9 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 27% 2010: 28% 89.3 83.7 Tax effects of: Adjustment in respect of prior year 33.7 2.2 Adjustment in respect of foreign tax rates 17.4 11.5 Non-deductible expenses and permanent items net of non-taxable income and other credits 1.8 13.0 Total taxation 74.8 84.4 Finance Act 2011, which was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, includes legislation reducing the main rate of UK corporation tax to 25% from 1 April 2012.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014.
These proposed reductions in the main rate of corporation tax are expected to be enacted separately each year.
4 Earnings per share and dividends 4.1 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust note 14.5, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Group has two classes of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the contingently issuable shares under the Groups long-term incentive plan.
For performance related share plans, a calculation is performed to determine the satisfaction, or otherwise, of the forecast performance conditions at the end of the reporting period, and the number of shares which would be issued based on the forecast status at the end of the reporting period.
Restated Underlying Underlying Statutory Statutory Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares 2011 2010 2011 2010 Earnings m Profit for the year from continuing operations 274.0m 235.1m 256.0m 214.5m Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 11.5m 16.9m 67.0m 12.8m 285.5m 252.0m 189.0m 227.3m Number of shares millions Weighted average number of shares 1,316.7 1,314.9 1,316.7 1,314.9 Dilutive effects of shares 10.4 4.5 10.4 4.5 1,327.1 1,319.4 1,327.1 1,319.4 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share pence Continuing operations 20.81p 17.88p 19.44p 16.30p Discontinued operations 0.87p 1.28p 5.09p 0.99p 21.68p 19.16p 14.35p 17.29p Diluted earnings per share pence Continuing operations 20.65p 17.82p 19.29p 16.26p Discontinued operations 0.86p 1.28p 5.05p 0.97p 21.51p 19.10p 14.24p 17.23p 84 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Results for the year continued Restated 3 Income tax expense continued 2011 2010 Restated Reconciliation between statutory and underlying earnings per share m m The tax for the year is lower 2010: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax 2011 2010 in the UK 27% 2010: 28%.
The differences are explained below: m m Profit for the year from continuing operations 256.0 214.5 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 330.8 298.9 Adjustments: Earnings trading from discontinued operations 18.9 28.6 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 27% 2010: 28% 89.3 83.7 Intangible amortisation excluding amortisation of computer software 21.8 28.2 Tax effects of: Taxation on adjustments 11.2 18.4 Adjustment in respect of prior year 33.7 2.2 Adjustment in respect of foreign tax rates 17.4 11.5 Net adjustments 29.5 38.4 Non-deductible expenses and permanent items net of non-taxable income and other credits 1.8 13.0 Earning underlying before exchange movement 285.5 252.9 Total taxation 74.8 84.4 Exchange movement 1.3 Taxation on exchange movement 0.4 Finance Act 2011, which was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, includes legislation reducing the main rate of UK corporation tax to 25% from Net exchange movement 0.9 1 April 2012.
Earnings underlying after exchange movement 285.5 252.0 Exchange movement relate to the retranslation of prior year results to current year exchange rates as shown in the table on page 15 within the 4 Earnings per share and dividends Financial review.
4.1 Earnings per share 4.2 Dividends Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust note 14.5, which are treated as cancelled.
2011 2010 m m For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary Final dividend paid for the year ended 30 September 2010 of 5.22p per share 68.7 shares.
The Group has two classes of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than 2010: final dividend paid for the year ended 30 September 2009 of 4.93p per share 64.7 the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the contingently issuable shares under the Groups long-term incentive plan.
Interim dividend paid for the year ended 30 September 2011 of 2.68p per share 35.3 2010: interim dividend paid for the year ended 30 September 2010 of 2.58p per share 33.9 Restated Underlying Underlying Statutory Statutory 104.0 98.6 Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares 2011 2010 2011 2010 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2011 of 7.07p per share which will absorb Earnings m an estimated 93.1m of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 2 March 2012 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 10 February 2012.
Profit for the year from continuing operations 274.0m 235.1m 256.0m 214.5m These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 11.5m 16.9m 67.0m 12.8m 285.5m 252.0m 189.0m 227.3m Number of shares millions Weighted average number of shares 1,316.7 1,314.9 1,316.7 1,314.9 Dilutive effects of shares 10.4 4.5 10.4 4.5 1,327.1 1,319.4 1,327.1 1,319.4 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share pence Continuing operations 20.81p 17.88p 19.44p 16.30p Discontinued operations 0.87p 1.28p 5.09p 0.99p 21.68p 19.16p 14.35p 17.29p Diluted earnings per share pence Continuing operations 20.65p 17.82p 19.29p 16.26p Discontinued operations 0.86p 1.28p 5.05p 0.97p 21.51p 19.10p 14.24p 17.23p Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 85 Financial statements Operating assets and liabilities 5 Intangible assets 5.1 Goodwill 2011 2010 Note m m Cost At 1 October 2,031.1 2,030.8 Additions 16.6 0.7 9.1 Disposals 16.6 1.3 8.8 Reclassification to assets held for sale 304.6 Exchange movement 10.4 At 30 September 1,736.3 2,031.1 Impairment At 1 October Impairment in the year 15.2 121.5 Reclassification to assets held for sale 121.5 At 30 September Net book amount at 30 September 1,736.3 2,031.1 Details of acquisitions and disposals in the year are shown in note 16.
During the year, goodwill was reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
For the purposes of this impairment review, goodwill for continuing operations has been valued on the basis of discounted future cash flows arising in each relevant cash-generating unit.
In September 2011 Sage reached a definitive agreement to sell Sage Software Healthcare LLC Sage Healthcare, to Vista Equity Partners for 203.8m as a result an impairment loss on goodwill of 121.5m has been recognised.
The loss was calculated on the basis of fair value less costs to sell.
The results for Sage Healthcare have been reclassified to discontinued operations, the assets and liabilities are classified separately in the balance sheet as held for sale.
Detailed information is shown in note 15.4.
Goodwill impairment tests Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to one or more cash-generating units CGUs.
CGUs represent the operations of a country or, in more material operations, divisions within a country.
The following table shows the allocation of the carrying value of goodwill at the end of the reporting period by geographic area: 2011 2010 m m UK & Ireland 212.3 212.4 France 277.7 278.7 Germany 27.2 27.3 Switzerland 35.9 33.0 Poland 6.5 7.2 Spain 134.2 134.9 North America Sage Business Solutions Division 793.7 784.9 Sage Payment Solutions Division 160.6 158.7 Sage Healthcare Division 301.2 South Africa 42.4 45.5 Australia 25.7 25.7 Asia 20.1 21.6 1,736.3 2,031.1 The main movement in goodwill by geography was the reclassification of goodwill relating to Sage Healthcare Division North America to assets held for sale, the majority of all other movements compared to prior year were due to the impact of foreign currency exchange movements.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Operating assets and liabilities The Group conducts annual impairment tests on the carrying value of goodwill, based on the recoverable amount of CGUs to which goodwill has been 5 Intangible assets allocated.
The recoverable amounts of CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations are 5.1 Goodwill the discount rate applied, the long-term operating margin EBITA and the long-term growth rate of net operating cash flows.
In all cases, the approved 2011 2010 budget for the following financial year formed the basis for the cash flow projections for a CGU.
The approved cash flow projections in the four financial Note m m years following the budget year reflected managements expectations of the medium-term operating performance of the CGU and growth prospects Cost in the CGUs market.
At 1 October 2,031.1 2,030.8 The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax rate that reflects the market assessment of the time value of money at the end Additions 16.6 0.7 9.1 of the reporting period and the risks specific to the CGU.
Reclassification to assets held for sale 304.6 The long-term operating margin assumed for a CGUs operations is primarily based on past performance.
For some CGUs, those for Exchange movement 10.4 which management has strong reason to believe that past operating margins are not indicative of future operating margins, expected At 30 September 1,736.3 2,031.1 future improvements from sustainable operating cost savings are also included in managements assessment of the long-term operating margin.
The long-term operating margin applied to CGUs was in the range of 21% 2010: 18% to 50% 2010: 44%.
Long-term growth rates of net operating cash flows are assumed equal to the long-term growth rate in the gross domestic product Impairment of the country in which the CGUs operations are undertaken and were in the range of 1.6% 2010: 1.3% to 5.5% 2010: 5.6%.
At 1 October Goodwill impairment tests were conducted separately for each CGU.
Impairment in the year 15.2 121.5 Reclassification to assets held for sale 121.5 Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management believes that no reasonable potential change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any unit to exceed At 30 September its recoverable amount.
The value-in-use calculations are sensitive to changes in discount rates.
The discount rates used are based on estimated weighted average costs of Net book amount at 30 September 1,736.3 2,031.1 capital in each country before tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant CGUs.
Details of acquisitions and disposals in the year are shown in note 16.
The largest CGU is Sage Business Solutions Division, which constitutes approximately 46% of the carrying value of goodwill at the end of the reporting For the purposes of this impairment review, goodwill for continuing operations has been valued on the basis of discounted future cash flows arising in period.
The discount rates applied to this CGU would have to increase by 40%, to result in a value-in-use equal to the carrying value of the goodwill.
This assumes all other key assumptions applied within the value-in-use calculations remain constant.
In September 2011 Sage reached a definitive agreement to sell Sage Software Healthcare LLC Sage Healthcare, to Vista Equity Partners for 203.8m 5.2 Other intangible assets as a result an impairment loss on goodwill of 121.5m has been recognised.
The Acquired Internal Computer Customer results for Sage Healthcare have been reclassified to discontinued operations, the assets and liabilities are classified separately in the balance sheet as Brands Technology IPR&D IPR&D software relationships Total held for sale.
Detailed information is shown in note 15.4. m m m m m m m Goodwill impairment tests Cost at 1 October 2010 43.9 96.5 0.4 5.6 66.2 152.7 365.3 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to one or more cash-generating units CGUs.
CGUs represent the operations of a country or, Continuing operations in more material operations, divisions within a country.
Additions 4.0 5.3 9.3 The following table shows the allocation of the carrying value of goodwill at the end of the reporting period by geographic area: Disposals 6.9 6.9 2011 2010 Acquisitions 0.3 0.3 m m Exchange movement 0.3 0.7 0.7 1.1 UK & Ireland 212.3 212.4 Discontinued operations France 277.7 278.7 Additions 1.9 0.8 2.7 Germany 27.2 27.3 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Switzerland 35.9 33.0 Reclassification to non-current assets Poland 6.5 7.2 classified as held for sale 8.0 16.2 12.5 50.5 87.2 Spain 134.2 134.9 At 30 September 2011 35.9 81.9 0.4 5.6 52.5 108.2 284.5 North America Accumulated amortisation Sage Business Solutions Division 793.7 784.9 at 1 October 2010 16.4 60.1 0.3 5.5 20.3 83.6 186.2 Sage Payment Solutions Division 160.6 158.7 Continuing operations Sage Healthcare Division 301.2 Charge for the year 2.2 9.6 0.1 0.1 6.3 9.8 28.1 South Africa 42.4 45.5 Disposals 6.6 6.6 Australia 25.7 25.7 Exchange movement 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.8 1.1 Asia 20.1 21.6 Discontinued operations 1,736.3 2,031.1 Charge for the year 0.6 2.0 1.2 4.9 8.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 The main movement in goodwill by geography was the reclassification of goodwill relating to Sage Healthcare Division North America to assets held for sale, the majority of all other movements compared to prior year were due to the impact of foreign currency exchange movements.
Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 3.1 10.3 10.6 27.0 51.0 At 30 September 2011 16.3 61.2 0.4 5.6 10.8 72.1 166.4 Net book amount at 30 September 2011 19.6 20.7 41.7 36.1 118.1 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 87 Financial statements Operating assets and liabilities continued 5 Intangible assets continued 5.2 Other intangible assets continued Acquired Internal Computer Customer Brands Technology IPR&D IPR&D software relationships Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 October 2009 45.7 99.2 0.4 5.6 71.4 151.4 373.7 Additions 5.3 1.8 7.1 Acquisitions 1.3 1.5 2.8 Disposals 1.0 1.9 10.7 1.4 15.0 Exchange movement 0.8 2.1 0.2 0.6 3.3 At 30 September 2010 43.9 96.5 0.4 5.6 66.2 152.7 365.3 Accumulated amortisation At 1 October 2009 14.5 48.2 0.2 5.1 24.1 65.6 157.7 Charge for the year 2.9 13.6 0.1 0.4 6.6 18.8 42.4 Acquisitions Disposals 1.0 1.0 10.2 0.8 13.0 Exchange movement 0.7 0.2 0.9 At 30 September 2010 16.4 60.1 0.3 5.5 20.3 83.6 186.2 Net book amount at 30 September 2010 27.5 36.4 0.1 0.1 45.9 69.1 179.1 All amortisation charges relating to continuing operations in the year have been charged through selling and administrative expenses.
Intangible assets other than internally generated IPR&D and computer software relate to identifiable assets purchased as part of the Groups business combinations.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic life.
6 Property, plant and equipment Motor vehicles Land and Plant and and office buildings equipment equipment Total m m m m Cost at 1 October 2010 100.3 151.4 61.6 313.3 Continuing operations Additions 18.6 6.9 25.5 Disposals 0.7 23.4 10.1 34.2 Acquisitions disposals of subsidiaries 0.2 0.1 0.3 Exchange movement 0.4 0.7 0.4 0.7 Discontinued operations Additions 0.6 0.6 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 1.8 4.7 1.5 8.0 At 30 September 2011 98.2 141.4 56.4 296.0 Accumulated depreciation at 1 October 2010 10.0 109.5 44.2 163.7 Continuing operations Charge for the year 1.9 14.5 5.4 21.8 Disposals 0.7 18.4 10.2 29.3 Acquisitions disposals of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 0.2 Exchange movement 0.1 0.6 0.3 0.8 Discontinued operations Charge for the year 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.7 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 1.0 3.9 1.2 6.1 At 30 September 2011 10.4 101.2 38.0 149.6 Net book amount at 30 September 2011 87.8 40.2 18.4 146.4 88 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Operating assets and liabilities continued Motor vehicles 5 Intangible assets continued Land and Plant and and office 5.2 Other intangible assets continued buildings equipment equipment Total m m m m Acquired Internal Computer Customer Brands Technology IPR&D IPR&D software relationships Total Cost m m m m m m m At 1 October 2009 96.5 146.8 59.2 302.5 Cost Additions at cost 5.5 16.1 6.8 28.4 At 1 October 2009 45.7 99.2 0.4 5.6 71.4 151.4 373.7 Acquisitions disposals of subsidiaries 1.7 0.3 2.0 Additions 5.3 1.8 7.1 Disposals 0.7 11.5 3.6 15.8 Acquisitions 1.3 1.5 2.8 Exchange movement 0.7 0.3 0.8 0.2 Disposals 1.0 1.9 10.7 1.4 15.0 At 30 September 2010 100.3 151.4 61.6 313.3 Exchange movement 0.8 2.1 0.2 0.6 3.3 At 30 September 2010 43.9 96.5 0.4 5.6 66.2 152.7 365.3 Accumulated depreciation At 1 October 2009 9.0 105.2 43.8 158.0 Accumulated amortisation Charge for the year 1.7 15.2 5.3 22.2 At 1 October 2009 14.5 48.2 0.2 5.1 24.1 65.6 157.7 Acquisitions disposals of subsidiaries 0.8 0.1 0.9 Charge for the year 2.9 13.6 0.1 0.4 6.6 18.8 42.4 Disposals 10.9 4.1 15.0 Acquisitions Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 0.8 0.6 Disposals 1.0 1.0 10.2 0.8 13.0 Exchange movement 0.7 0.2 0.9 At 30 September 2010 10.0 109.5 44.2 163.7 At 30 September 2010 16.4 60.1 0.3 5.5 20.3 83.6 186.2 Net book amount at Net book amount at 30 September 2010 90.3 41.9 17.4 149.6 30 September 2010 27.5 36.4 0.1 0.1 45.9 69.1 179.1 Depreciation expenses from continuing operations of 21.8m 2010 restated: 21.3m have been charged through selling and administrative expenses All amortisation charges relating to continuing operations in the year have been charged through selling and administrative expenses.
Intangible assets note 2.1. other than internally generated IPR&D and computer software relate to identifiable assets purchased as part of the Groups business combinations.
Lease rentals amounting to 2.5m 2010 restated: 3.0m and 27.5m 2010 restated: 31.4m relating to the lease of plant and machinery and Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic life.
property respectively have also been charged through selling and administrative expenses note 2.1.
6 Property, plant and equipment 2011 2010 Assets held under finance leases have the following net book amount: m m Motor vehicles Land and Plant and and office Cost 3.6 3.4 buildings equipment equipment Total m m m m Accumulated depreciation 1.1 0.6 Cost at 1 October 2010 100.3 151.4 61.6 313.3 Net book amount 2.5 2.8 Continuing operations Included in assets held under finance leases are plant and equipment with a net book amount of 2.4m 2010: 2.6m and vehicles 0.1m 2010: 0.2m.
Additions 18.6 6.9 25.5 Disposals 0.7 23.4 10.1 34.2 7 Working capital Acquisitions disposals of subsidiaries 0.2 0.1 0.3 7.1 Inventories Exchange movement 0.4 0.7 0.4 0.7 2011 2010 Discontinued operations m m Additions 0.6 0.6 Materials 0.7 0.7 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Finished goods 1.8 3.4 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 1.8 4.7 1.5 8.0 2.5 4.1 At 30 September 2011 98.2 141.4 56.4 296.0 The Group consumed 12.7m 2010 restated: 13.7m of inventories, included in cost of sales, during the year.
There was no material write down of inventories during the current or prior year.
Accumulated depreciation at 1 October 2010 10.0 109.5 44.2 163.7 Continuing operations 7.2 Trade and other receivables Charge for the year 1.9 14.5 5.4 21.8 2011 2010 Amounts falling due within one year: m m Disposals 0.7 18.4 10.2 29.3 Trade receivables 279.6 262.2 Acquisitions disposals of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 0.2 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 29.2 27.4 Exchange movement 0.1 0.6 0.3 0.8 Trade receivables net 250.4 234.8 Discontinued operations Other receivables 14.7 19.7 Charge for the year 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.7 Prepayments and accrued income 20.3 21.8 Disposals 0.2 0.2 285.4 276.3 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 1.0 3.9 1.2 6.1 At 30 September 2011 10.4 101.2 38.0 149.6 Net book amount at 30 September 2011 87.8 40.2 18.4 146.4 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 89 Financial statements Operating assets and liabilities continued 7 Working capital continued 7.2 Trade and other receivables continued The Groups credit risk on trade and other receivables is primarily attributable to trade receivables.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk since the risk is spread over a large number of unrelated counterparties.
The directors estimate that the carrying value of financial assets within trade and other receivables approximated their fair value.
The Group considers the credit quality of trade and other receivables by geographical location.
The Group consider that the carrying value of the trade and other receivables that is disclosed below gives a fair presentation of the credit quality of the assets.
This is considered to be the case as there is a low risk of default due to the high number of recurring customers and credit control policies, thus the carrying value is expected to be the final value received.
2011 2010 Trade and other receivables by geographical location: m m Europe 199.8 182.9 North America 49.7 55.4 AAMEA 15.6 16.2 265.1 254.5 2011 2010 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: m m At 1 October 27.4 31.4 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.5 0.3 Increase in provision for receivables impairment 9.3 6.1 Receivables written-off during the year as uncollectible 4.5 6.9 Unused amounts reversed 2.2 1.7 Exchange movement 0.2 1.2 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 0.1 At 30 September 29.2 27.4 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers the ageing of each receivable and any change in the circumstances of the individual receivables.
The directors believe that there is no further provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in selling and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written-off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
At 30 September 2011, trade receivables of 33.0m 2010: 29.3m were either partially or fully impaired.
2011 2010 The ageing of these receivables was as follows: m m Not due 3.5 1.0 Less than six months past due 7.7 6.4 More than six months past due 21.8 21.9 33.0 29.3 Trade receivables which were past their due date but not impaired at 30 September 2011 were 54.9m 2010: 51.4m.
2011 2010 The ageing of these receivables was as follows: m m Less than six months past due 49.5 46.2 More than six months past due 5.4 5.2 54.9 51.4 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the fair value of each class of receivables mentioned above, the Group held no collateral as security.
The directors estimate that the carrying value of trade receivables approximated their fair value.
7.3 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m Trade payables 71.7 86.2 Other tax and social security payable 65.0 71.2 Accruals 124.5 131.5 261.2 288.9 90 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Operating assets and liabilities continued 7.4 Deferred income 7 Working capital continued 2011 2010 7.2 Trade and other receivables continued m m The Groups credit risk on trade and other receivables is primarily attributable to trade receivables.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit Deferred income 404.7 402.7 risk since the risk is spread over a large number of unrelated counterparties.
Revenue not recognised in the income statement under the Group accounting policy for revenue recognition is classified as deferred income in the balance sheet to be recognised in future periods.
This is considered to be the case as 8 Retirement benefit obligations there is a low risk of default due to the high number of recurring customers and credit control policies, thus the carrying value is expected to be the final value received.
The Group has established a number of pension schemes around the world covering many of its employees.
All of these schemes are defined contribution schemes with the exception of a small defined benefit pension scheme in Switzerland and another retirement benefit scheme in France.
2011 2010 Trade and other receivables by geographical location: m m Under French legislation, the Group is required to make one-off payments to employees in France who reach retirement age while still in employment.
Europe 199.8 182.9 Restated 2011 2010 North America 49.7 55.4 Pension costs Note m m AAMEA 15.6 16.2 Defined contribution schemes 9.8 12.0 265.1 254.5 Defined benefit plans 2.0 1.3 2.2 11.8 13.3 2011 2010 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: m m Defined benefit plans At 1 October 27.4 31.4 The most recent actuarial valuations of the retirement benefit plans were performed by Ernst & Young in October 2011.
Disposal of subsidiaries 0.5 0.3 2011 2010 Increase in provision for receivables impairment 9.3 6.1 Weighted average principal assumptions made by the actuaries % % Receivables written-off during the year as uncollectible 4.5 6.9 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.80 2.80 Unused amounts reversed 2.2 1.7 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 0.00 0.00 Exchange movement 0.2 1.2 Discount rate 2.80 2.90 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 0.1 Inflation assumption 1.60 1.50 At 30 September 29.2 27.4 Expected return on plan assets 2.50 4.00 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers the ageing of each receivable and any change in the circumstances of the individual receivables.
2011 2010 Mortality rate assumptions made by the actuaries years years The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in selling and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Average life expectancy for 65-year-old male 19.9 19.4 Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written-off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
Average life expectancy for 65-year-old female 24.4 23.9 At 30 September 2011, trade receivables of 33.0m 2010: 29.3m were either partially or fully impaired.
Average life expectancy for 45-year-old male 32.9 32.7 Average life expectancy for 45-year-old female 39.0 38.7 2011 2010 The ageing of these receivables was as follows: m m Not due 3.5 1.0 2011 2010 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet m m Less than six months past due 7.7 6.4 Present value of funded obligations 29.5 26.2 More than six months past due 21.8 21.9 Fair value of plan assets 17.8 14.9 33.0 29.3 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 11.7 11.3 Trade receivables which were past their due date but not impaired at 30 September 2011 were 54.9m 2010: 51.4m.
The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectation at the beginning of the period for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
2011 2010 The ageing of these receivables was as follows: m m 2011 2010 Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets m % m % Less than six months past due 49.5 46.2 Bonds 11.4 64.1 9.6 64.4 More than six months past due 5.4 5.2 Equities 2.9 16.3 2.4 16.1 54.9 51.4 Property 1.5 8.4 1.2 8.1 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the fair value of each class of receivables mentioned above, the Group held Other 2.0 11.2 1.7 11.4 no collateral as security.
17.8 100.0 14.9 100.0 7.3 Trade and other payables The expected return on plan assets is determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying the current investment policy.
2011 2010 Expected yields on fixed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields at the end of the reporting period.
Expected returns on equity and m m property investments reflect long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
Trade payables 71.7 86.2 Expected contributions to post employment benefit plans for the year ending 30 September 2012 are 0.8m 2010: expected contributions year ending Other tax and social security payable 65.0 71.2 30 September 2011 0.9m.
Accruals 124.5 131.5 261.2 288.9 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 91 Financial statements Operating assets and liabilities continued 8 Retirement benefit obligations continued 2011 2010 Amounts recognised in the income statement m m Interest cost 0.9 0.8 Expected return on plan assets 0.4 1.0 Current service cost 1.5 1.5 Total included within staff costs 2.0 1.3 The entire cost is included within selling and administrative expenses.
2011 2010 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation m m Present value of obligation 1 October 26.2 31.7 Exchange movement 1.4 1.3 Disposal 9.0 Service cost 1.5 1.5 Plan participant contributions 0.7 0.6 Interest cost 0.9 0.8 Benefits paid 1.3 Reclassification 0.3 0.5 Actuarial gain loss on benefit obligation 1.5 0.1 Present value of obligation 30 September 29.5 26.2 2011 2010 Changes in the fair value of plan assets m m Fair value of plan assets 1 October 14.9 19.9 Exchange movement 1.4 1.5 Disposal 7.4 Expected return on plan assets 0.4 1.0 Employers contributions 0.9 0.8 Employees contributions 0.7 0.6 Benefits paid 1.3 Actuarial loss on plan assets 0.5 0.2 Fair value of plan assets 30 September 17.8 14.9 2011 2010 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability m m At 1 October 11.3 11.8 Exchange movement 0.2 Disposal 1.6 Total expense as recognised in the income statement 2.0 1.3 Contributions paid 0.9 0.8 Reclassification 0.3 0.5 Actuarial gain loss 1.0 0.3 At 30 September 11.7 11.3 The reduction on plan assets was 0.1m 2010: 0.3m return.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 History of experience gains and losses m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 29.5 26.2 31.7 20.0 17.9 Fair value of plan assets 17.8 14.9 19.9 16.1 12.6 Deficit 11.7 11.3 11.8 3.9 5.3 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 1.5 0.1 0.2 3.5 5.8 Experience adjustments on plan assets 0.5 0.2 0.5 0.7 7.6 92 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Operating assets and liabilities continued 2011 2010 8 Retirement benefit obligations continued Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised outside profit or loss m m 2011 2010 At 1 October 0.3 0.6 Amounts recognised in the income statement m m Actuarial gains losses recognised in the year before tax 1.0 0.3 Interest cost 0.9 0.8 Expected return on plan assets 0.4 1.0 At 30 September 1.3 0.3 Current service cost 1.5 1.5 9 Deferred income tax Total included within staff costs 2.0 1.3 Deferred income tax has been calculated at 25% 2010: 27% in respect of UK companies being the corporation tax rate at which timing differences The entire cost is included within selling and administrative expenses.
are expected to reverse and at the prevailing rates for the overseas subsidiaries.
2011 2010 Finance Act 2011, which was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, includes legislation reducing the main rate of UK corporation tax to 25% from Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation m m 1 April 2012.
As such deferred tax balances at 30 September 2011 have been calculated using a rate of 25%.
Present value of obligation 1 October 26.2 31.7 Further reductions to the UK corporation tax rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014.
These proposed Exchange movement 1.4 1.3 reductions in the UK rate of corporation tax are expected to be enacted separately each year.
The overall effect of the further changes from 25% Disposal 9.0 to 23%, if these were applied to the UK deferred tax balance at 30 September 2011, would not be material to these Group financial statements.
Service cost 1.5 1.5 2011 2010 Plan participant contributions 0.7 0.6 The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: m m Interest cost 0.9 0.8 At 1 October 29.2 33.7 Benefits paid 1.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.6 0.8 Reclassification 0.3 0.5 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 Actuarial gain loss on benefit obligation 1.5 0.1 Taxation on discontinued operations 38.6 Transfer from current income tax liabilities 0.4 3.2 Present value of obligation 30 September 29.5 26.2 Income statement charge credit 1.8 3.8 Exchange movement 0.1 1.7 2011 2010 Changes in the fair value of plan assets m m Share options 1.7 3.1 Fair value of plan assets 1 October 14.9 19.9 At 30 September 6.0 29.2 Exchange movement 1.4 1.5 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because Disposal 7.4 it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Expected return on plan assets 0.4 1.0 No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax Employers contributions 0.9 0.8 is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
Employees contributions 0.7 0.6 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12, Income Benefits paid 1.3 Taxes during the year are shown below.
Actuarial loss on plan assets 0.5 0.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Fair value of plan assets 30 September 17.8 14.9 2011 2010 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability m m At 1 October 11.3 11.8 Exchange movement 0.2 Disposal 1.6 Total expense as recognised in the income statement 2.0 1.3 Contributions paid 0.9 0.8 Reclassification 0.3 0.5 Actuarial gain loss 1.0 0.3 At 30 September 11.7 11.3 The reduction on plan assets was 0.1m 2010: 0.3m return.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 History of experience gains and losses m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 29.5 26.2 31.7 20.0 17.9 Fair value of plan assets 17.8 14.9 19.9 16.1 12.6 Deficit 11.7 11.3 11.8 3.9 5.3 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 1.5 0.1 0.2 3.5 5.8 Experience adjustments on plan assets 0.5 0.2 0.5 0.7 7.6 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 93 Financial statements Operating assets and liabilities continued 9 Deferred income tax continued Intangible assets Other Total Assets m m m At 1 October 2010 1.2 11.6 10.4 Income statement charge 0.2 3.7 3.9 Reclassification from deferred tax liability 17.2 7.0 24.2 Reclassification to other deferred tax 3.8 3.8 Taxation on discontinued operations 6.4 45.0 38.6 Exchange movement 0.4 0.2 0.2 At 30 September 2011 21.6 42.3 20.7 Liabilities At 1 October 2010 42.5 2.9 39.6 Income statement credit charge 3.2 1.1 2.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 Reclassification to deferred tax asset 17.2 7.0 24.2 Reclassification to other deferred tax 0.4 0.4 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 Share options 1.7 1.7 Transfer from current income tax liabilities 0.4 0.4 At 30 September 2011 21.6 6.9 14.7 Net deferred tax liability asset at 30 September 2011 43.2 49.2 6.0 Intangible assets Other Total Assets m m m At 1 October 2009 0.3 7.8 7.5 Income statement credit 0.1 2.0 2.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.8 0.8 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.4 0.5 0.1 Reclassification from deferred tax liability 0.6 1.3 0.7 Exchange movement 1.0 1.0 At 30 September 2010 1.2 11.6 10.4 Liabilities At 1 October 2009 40.7 0.5 41.2 Income statement charge credit 3.5 5.2 1.7 Reclassification from deferred tax asset 0.6 1.3 0.7 Exchange movement 1.1 0.4 0.7 Share options 3.1 3.1 Transfer from current income tax liabilities 3.2 3.2 At 30 September 2010 42.5 2.9 39.6 Net deferred tax liability asset at 30 September 2010 43.7 14.5 29.2 The deferred tax liability due after more than one year is 21.6m 2010: 42.5m.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Operating assets and liabilities continued 9 Deferred income tax continued 10 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments Intangible Restated assets Other Total 2011 2010 Assets m m m Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and At 1 October 2010 1.2 11.6 10.4 Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating Property equipment Property equipment Income statement charge 0.2 3.7 3.9 leases falling due for payment as follows: m m m m Reclassification from deferred tax liability 17.2 7.0 24.2 Within one year 32.4 3.2 33.2 2.6 Reclassification to other deferred tax 3.8 3.8 Later than one year and less than five years 104.5 4.1 106.3 3.5 Taxation on discontinued operations 6.4 45.0 38.6 After five years 69.4 0.1 92.8 Exchange movement 0.4 0.2 0.2 206.3 7.4 232.3 6.1 At 30 September 2011 21.6 42.3 20.7 The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases vehicles, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
Liabilities At 1 October 2010 42.5 2.9 39.6 11 Contingent liabilities Income statement credit charge 3.2 1.1 2.1 The Group had no contingent liabilities at 30 September 2011 2010: none.
Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 Reclassification to deferred tax asset 17.2 7.0 24.2 Reclassification to other deferred tax 0.4 0.4 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 Share options 1.7 1.7 Transfer from current income tax liabilities 0.4 0.4 At 30 September 2011 21.6 6.9 14.7 Net deferred tax liability asset at 30 September 2011 43.2 49.2 6.0 Intangible assets Other Total Assets m m m At 1 October 2009 0.3 7.8 7.5 Income statement credit 0.1 2.0 2.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.8 0.8 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.4 0.5 0.1 Reclassification from deferred tax liability 0.6 1.3 0.7 Exchange movement 1.0 1.0 At 30 September 2010 1.2 11.6 10.4 Liabilities At 1 October 2009 40.7 0.5 41.2 Income statement charge credit 3.5 5.2 1.7 Reclassification from deferred tax asset 0.6 1.3 0.7 Exchange movement 1.1 0.4 0.7 Share options 3.1 3.1 Transfer from current income tax liabilities 3.2 3.2 At 30 September 2010 42.5 2.9 39.6 Net deferred tax liability asset at 30 September 2010 43.7 14.5 29.2 The deferred tax liability due after more than one year is 21.6m 2010: 42.5m.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 95 Financial statements Net debt and capital structure 12 Cash flow and net debt 12.1 Cash flow generated from operations Restated 2011 2010 Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from continuing operations m m Profit for the year 256.0 214.5 Adjustments for: Taxation 74.8 84.4 Finance income 1.9 3.3 Finance expenses 14.4 13.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 28.1 33.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 21.8 21.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.5 Profit on disposal of intangible assets 1.3 0.2 Equity-settled share-based transactions 3.2 9.8 Exchange movement 2.7 1.2 Changes in working capital excluding effects of acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries Decrease in inventories 0.3 0.9 Increase in trade and other receivables 34.0 11.6 Increase in trade and other payables 14.0 17.1 Increase in deferred income 29.9 15.8 Cash generated from continuing operations 405.1 394.5 12.2 Net debt 2011 2010 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt inclusive of finance leases m m Increase in cash in the year pre-exchange movements 113.6 16.6 Cash outflow from decrease in loans, finance leases and cash collected from customers 83.4 202.7 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 197.0 219.3 Acquisitions 1.0 3.0 Non-cash movements 1.2 5.0 Exchange movement 1.9 8.3 Movement in net debt in the year 194.9 219.6 Net debt at 1 October 219.8 439.4 Net debt at 30 September 24.9 219.8 Numerical financial instruments disclosures are set out below and also in note 13.
At At Acquisitions 1 October Non-cash Exchange 30 September Analysis of change in net debt 2010 Cash flow disposals movements movement 2011 inclusive of finance leases m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 70.8 114.2 2.2 182.8 Bank overdrafts 0.2 0.6 0.8 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 70.6 113.6 2.2 182.0 Loans due within one year 2.0 1.0 1.1 0.1 Finance leases due within one year 0.6 0.6 0.9 0.9 Loans due after more than one year 246.0 58.8 0.1 1.2 1.5 190.0 Finance leases due after more than one year 3.3 0.9 2.4 Cash collected from customers 38.5 23.0 1.9 13.6 Total 219.8 197.0 1.0 1.2 1.9 24.9 Included in cash above is 13.6m 2010: 38.5m relating to cash collected from customers, which the Group is contracted to pay onto another party.
A liability for the same amount is included in trade and other payables on the balance sheet and is classified within net debt above.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Net debt and capital structure 12.3 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 12 Cash flow and net debt 2011 2010 12.1 Cash flow generated from operations m m Restated Cash at bank and in hand 64.3 70.7 2011 2010 Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from continuing operations m m Short-term bank deposits 118.5 0.1 Profit for the year 256.0 214.5 182.8 70.8 Adjustments for: The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 0.7% 2010: 0.5% and these deposits have an average maturity of 29 days 2010: 81 days.
Taxation 74.8 84.4 The Groups credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are well established banks with high credit ratings.
Finance income 1.9 3.3 12.4 Borrowings Finance expenses 14.4 13.4 2011 2010 Amortisation of intangible assets 28.1 33.2 Current m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 21.8 21.3 Bank overdrafts 0.8 0.2 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.5 Bank loans unsecured 2.0 Profit on disposal of intangible assets 1.3 0.2 Finance lease obligations 0.9 0.6 Equity-settled share-based transactions 3.2 9.8 1.7 2.8 Exchange movement 2.7 1.2 Changes in working capital excluding effects of acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 2011 2010 Decrease in inventories 0.3 0.9 Non-current m m Increase in trade and other receivables 34.0 11.6 US senior loan notes unsecured 189.9 189.1 Increase in trade and other payables 14.0 17.1 Bank loans unsecured 0.1 56.9 Increase in deferred income 29.9 15.8 Finance lease obligations 2.4 3.3 Cash generated from continuing operations 405.1 394.5 192.4 249.3 Included in loans above is 190.0m 2010: 246.0m of unsecured loans after unamortised issue costs.
These borrowings were taken out in connection 12.2 Net debt with acquisitions.
2011 2010 The Group has US$300.0m 192.6m, 2010: 190.4m of US senior loan notes, which were issued into the private placement market.
These notes Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt inclusive of finance leases m m mature $200.0m 128.4m, 2010: 127.0m in 2015, $50.0m 32.1m, 2010: 31.7m in 2016 and $50.0m 32.1m, 2010: 31.7m in 2017 and carry Increase in cash in the year pre-exchange movements 113.6 16.6 interest coupons of 4.39%, 4.78% and 5.15% respectively.
Cash outflow from decrease in loans, finance leases and cash collected from customers 83.4 202.7 There were nil drawings 2010: 56.9m under the multi-currency revolving credit facility 358.3m 2010: 357.4m expiring on 31 August 2015, which Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 197.0 219.3 consists both of US$271.0m 174.0m, 2010: 172.0m and 214.0m 184.3m, 2010: 185.4m tranches.
Acquisitions 1.0 3.0 In the table above, bank loans and loan notes are stated net of unamortised issue costs of 2.7m 2010: 4.0m.
The Group has incurred total issue Non-cash movements 1.2 5.0 costs amounting to 4.4m 2010: 4.4m in respect of these facilities.
These issue costs were paid during the year ended 30 September 2010, no issue Exchange movement 1.9 8.3 costs were incurred during the current financial year.
These costs are allocated to the income statement over the term of the facility using the effective Movement in net debt in the year 194.9 219.6 interest method.
Net debt at 1 October 219.8 439.4 Unsecured bank loans were drawn in the following currencies: Sterling nil 2010: 1.3m, US Dollar nil 2010: 57.6m, Euro 0.1m 2010: nil, which Net debt at 30 September 24.9 219.8 bear an average fixed interest rate of 4.2% 2010: 1.6%.
Numerical financial instruments disclosures are set out below and also in note 13.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 97 Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued 13 Financial instruments Numerical financial instruments disclosures are set out below and also in note 12.
13.1 Fair values of financial instruments For the following financial assets and liabilities: long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings, trade and other payables excluding other tax and social security, trade and other receivables excluding prepayments, short-term bank deposits and cash at bank and in hand, the carrying amount approximates the fair value of the instrument with the exception of long-term borrowings due to these bearing interest at fixed rates which are currently higher than floating rates.
2011 2010 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value Note m m m m Long-term borrowings 12.4 192.4 207.6 249.3 260.6 Fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Short-term borrowings 12.4 1.7 1.7 2.8 2.8 Trade and other payables excluding other tax and social security 7.3 196.2 196.2 217.7 217.7 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income 7.2 265.1 265.1 254.5 254.5 Short-term bank deposits 12.3 118.5 118.5 0.1 0.1 Cash at bank and in hand 12.3 64.3 64.3 70.7 70.7 Financial instruments 13.5 50.0 50.0 1.0 1.0 13.2 Risk management The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to interest rate, foreign exchange and other financial risks, to ensure liquidity is available to meet the foreseeable needs of the Group and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Group does not engage in speculative trading in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The Groups treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and are subject to regular Group Internal Audit review.
Capital risk The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt note 12.2 plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, while optimising return to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group regularly reviews net debt and its ratio to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA to ensure that it does not exceed the covenant contained within the Groups banking facilities and senior loan notes, being 3.0 times.
At 30 September 2011 this ratio was 0.1 times.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, with respect to changes in economic conditions and the strategic objectives of the Group.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by regularly reviewing net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure that current cash resources are available to meet its business objectives.
The Group also regularly monitors its compliance with its debt covenants.
During the financial year, all covenants have been complied with.
The Group has committed facilities which are available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
The Groups Treasury function has a policy of optimising the level of cash in the business in order to minimise external borrowings.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty may default on their obligation to the Group in relation to lending, settlement and other financial activities.
The Groups principal financial assets are trade and other receivables and bank balances and cash.
The Groups credit risk primarily arises from trade and other receivables.
The amounts included in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of cash flows.
The Group has a very low credit risk due to the transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The credit risk on liquid funds is considered to be low, as the Audit Committee approved Group Treasury Policy limits the value that can be invested with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold collateral over any of these financial assets.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued Interest rate risk 13 Financial instruments The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on floating rate bank loans and overdrafts.
At 30 September 2011, the Group had drawn down Numerical financial instruments disclosures are set out below and also in note 12. nil 2010: 56.9m from its committed revolving credit facilities and had fixed rate loan notes outstanding of 192.6m 2010: 190.4m.
It is the Groups 13.1 Fair values of financial instruments policy to review interest rates regularly and forecast debt to monitor its interest rate exposure.
The profile of fixed and floating interest rates is then managed accordingly using interest rate swaps or other hedging instruments approved by the Board.
For the following financial assets and liabilities: long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings, trade and other payables excluding other tax and social security, trade and other receivables excluding prepayments, short-term bank deposits and cash at bank and in hand, the carrying amount Foreign currency risk approximates the fair value of the instrument with the exception of long-term borrowings due to these bearing interest at fixed rates which are currently Foreign exchange rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows will fluctuate because of the changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups higher than floating rates.
foreign currency exposures are principally to the US Dollar and Euro.
2011 2010 During the year the Group had US Dollar denominated borrowings which it has designated as a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in the US.
Book Fair Book Fair value value value value The fair value of the US Dollar borrowings at 30 September 2011 was 205.1m 2010: 261.9m.
The foreign exchange loss of 1.5m 2010: gain of Note m m m m 6.9m on translation of the borrowings into Sterling has been recognised in exchange reserves.
Long-term borrowings 12.4 192.4 207.6 249.3 260.6 The Groups other currency exposures comprise only those exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses to be recognised in the income Fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities statement.
Such exposures reflect the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the operating or functional currency Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: of the operating unit involved.
At 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010, these exposures were immaterial to the Group.
Short-term borrowings 12.4 1.7 1.7 2.8 2.8 13.3 Maturity of financial liabilities Trade and other payables excluding other tax and social security 7.3 196.2 196.2 217.7 217.7 The maturity profile of the undiscounted contractual amount of the Groups financial liabilities at 30 September was as follows: Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income 7.2 265.1 265.1 254.5 254.5 Short-term bank deposits 12.3 118.5 118.5 0.1 0.1 2011 Trade and Financial Cash at bank and in hand 12.3 64.3 64.3 70.7 70.7 Borrowings other payables instruments Total Financial instruments 13.5 50.0 50.0 1.0 1.0 m m m m In less than one year 2.6 261.2 50.0 313.8 13.2 Risk management In more than one year but not more than two years 3.4 3.4 The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to interest rate, foreign exchange and other financial risks, to ensure liquidity is available to In more than two years but not more than five years 155.6 155.6 meet the foreseeable needs of the Group and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Group does not engage in speculative trading in financial In more than five years 83.5 83.5 instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The Groups treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed 245.1 261.2 50.0 556.3 and approved by the Audit Committee and are subject to regular Group Internal Audit review.
Capital risk The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt note 12.2 plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going 2010 concern in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, while optimising return to shareholders through an appropriate Trade and Financial Borrowings other payables instruments Total balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group regularly reviews net debt and its ratio to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation m m m m EBITDA to ensure that it does not exceed the covenant contained within the Groups banking facilities and senior loan notes, being 3.0 times.
In less than one year 2.9 288.9 0.7 292.5 At 30 September 2011 this ratio was 0.1 times.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, with respect to changes in In more than one year but not more than two years 1.0 0.4 1.4 economic conditions and the strategic objectives of the Group.
In more than two years but not more than five years 218.3 218.3 Liquidity risk In more than five years 82.3 82.3 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by 304.5 288.9 1.1 594.5 regularly reviewing net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure that current cash resources are available to meet its business objectives.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 99 Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued 13 Financial instruments continued 13.4 Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 September in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2011 2010 m m Expiring between one and two years Expiring in more than two years 358.3 297.8 358.3 297.8 The facilities have been arranged to help finance the expansion of the Groups activities.
All these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
In addition, the Group maintains overdraft and uncommitted facilities to provide short-term flexibility and has also utilised the US private placement market.
13.5 Other financial liabilities 2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current closed period share buyback programme 50.0 Non-current interest rate swaps 1.0 Current other financial liabilities relate to outstanding liabilities of 50.0m 2010: nil arising under an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement for the purchase of the Companys own shares which was outstanding at 30 September 2011.
The fair value has been calculated based on the value of the contractual legal agreement with Deutsche Bank AG, which is also equal to the book value.
Refer to note 18.2 for further details on the buyback.
Non-current liabilities relate to interest rate swaps contracts, the notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 30 September 2011 was nil 2010: 50.8m the interest rate swaps were closed out in March 2011.
Losses recognised in the hedge reserve in equity note 14.4 on interest rate swap contracts have been released to the income statement during the current financial year.
13.6 Sensitivity analysis Financial instruments affected by market risks include borrowings and deposits.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being Sterling, US Dollar and Euro interest rates, and US Dollar Sterling and Euro Sterling exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis assumes reasonable movements in foreign exchange and interest rates before the effect of tax.
The Group considers a reasonable interest rate movement in LIBOR to be 1%, based on interest rate history.
Similarly, sensitivity to movements in US Dollar Sterling and Euro Sterling exchange rates of 10% are shown reflecting changes of reasonable proportion in the context of movement in those currency pairs over the last year.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the consolidated income statement and equity.
2011 2010 Income Equity Income Equity losses gains losses gains losses gains losses gains m m m m 1% increase in market interest rates 2.0 2.0 3.4 3.4 1% decrease in market interest rates 2.0 2.0 3.4 3.4 10% strengthening of Sterling versus the US Dollar 5.1 62.4 4.5 59.3 10% strengthening of Sterling versus the Euro 7.4 31.6 7.4 28.9 10% weakening of Sterling versus the US Dollar 5.6 68.7 5.0 65.2 10% weakening of Sterling versus the Euro 8.1 34.8 8.2 31.8 13.7 The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2011 2010 m m Not later than one year 1.0 0.7 Later than one year but not more than five years 2.6 3.6 3.6 4.3 Future finance charges on finance leases 0.3 0.4 Present value of finance lease liabilities 3.3 3.9 100 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued 13 Financial instruments continued 14 Equity 13.4 Borrowing facilities 14.1 Ordinary shares 2011 2010 The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 September in respect of which all conditions precedent had been Authorised m m met at that date: 1,860,000,000 2010: 1,860,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each 18.6 18.6 2011 2010 m m 2011 2011 2010 2010 Expiring between one and two years Issued and fully paid shares m shares m Expiring in more than two years 358.3 297.8 At 1 October 1,317,360,582 13.2 1,312,966,956 13.1 358.3 297.8 Shares issued proceeds 6,477,254 4,393,626 0.1 The facilities have been arranged to help finance the expansion of the Groups activities.
In At 30 September 1,323,837,836 13.2 1,317,360,582 13.2 addition, the Group maintains overdraft and uncommitted facilities to provide short-term flexibility and has also utilised the US private placement market.
Potential issues of ordinary shares 13.5 Other financial liabilities Executive share option scheme 2011 2010 Certain senior executives hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company at prices ranging from 134.00p to 270.00p under the share option Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities schemes approved by shareholders.
The number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they m m m m may be exercised are given below: Current closed period share buyback programme 50.0 Exercise price 2011 2010 Non-current interest rate swaps 1.0 Date of grant pence Exercise period number number 10 January 2001 301.00p 10 January 2004 10 January 2011 1,590,456 Current other financial liabilities relate to outstanding liabilities of 50.0m 2010: nil arising under an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement for the purchase of the Companys own shares which was outstanding at 30 September 2011.
The fair value has been calculated based on the value 17 January 2001 329.75p 17 January 2004 17 January 2011 459,833 of the contractual legal agreement with Deutsche Bank AG, which is also equal to the book value.
16 May 2001 264.00p 16 May 2004 16 May 2011 1,233,474 Non-current liabilities relate to interest rate swaps contracts, the notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 30 2 January 2002 228.50p 2 January 2005 2 January 2012 1,187,105 2,077,630 September 2011 was nil 2010: 50.8m the interest rate swaps were closed out in March 2011.
Losses recognised in the hedge reserve in equity 31 December 2002 134.00p 31 December 2005 31 December 2012 452,468 992,122 note 14.4 on interest rate swap contracts have been released to the income statement during the current financial year.
6 January 2005 198.00p 6 January 2008 6 January 2015 1,373,034 2,228,315 The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, 12 May 2005 206.00p 12 May 2008 12 May 2015 1,101,446 1,337,271 being Sterling, US Dollar and Euro interest rates, and US Dollar Sterling and Euro Sterling exchange rates.
10 January 2006 258.50p 10 January 2009 10 January 2016 2,654,089 3,164,375 The sensitivity analysis assumes reasonable movements in foreign exchange and interest rates before the effect of tax.
The Group considers 10 January 2007 270.00p 10 January 2010 10 January 2017 1,933,437 2,761,175 a reasonable interest rate movement in LIBOR to be 1%, based on interest rate history.
Similarly, sensitivity to movements in US Dollar Sterling and 20 June 2007 248.00p 20 June 2010 20 June 2017 30,014 126,034 Euro Sterling exchange rates of 10% are shown reflecting changes of reasonable proportion in the context of movement in those currency pairs over the last year.
10 January 2008 214.00p 10 January 2011 10 January 2018 430,532 7,655,202 17 June 2008 219.25p 17 June 2011 17 June 2018 246,209 Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the consolidated income statement and equity.
11,953,590 28,250,078 2011 2010 Income Equity Income Equity Under the above scheme, 5,985,737 1p ordinary shares were issued during the year for aggregate proceeds of 12.5m.
losses gains losses gains losses gains losses gains m m m m Long-term incentive plan 1% increase in market interest rates 2.0 2.0 3.4 3.4 Under the Groups long-term incentive plan for certain senior executives approved by shareholders on 3 March 2005 and amended at the Annual General Meeting on 3 March 2009, the following awards have been made: 1% decrease in market interest rates 2.0 2.0 3.4 3.4 10% strengthening of Sterling versus the US Dollar 5.1 62.4 4.5 59.3 2011 2010 Date of award Vesting date number number 10% strengthening of Sterling versus the Euro 7.4 31.6 7.4 28.9 3 March 2008 3 March 2011 4,579,315 10% weakening of Sterling versus the US Dollar 5.6 68.7 5.0 65.2 17 June 2008 17 June 2011 333,148 10% weakening of Sterling versus the Euro 8.1 34.8 8.2 31.8 3 March 2009 3 March 2012 11,379,360 11,732,189 13.7 The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 4 March 2010 4 March 2013 7,842,033 8,165,587 2011 2010 10 March 2011 10 March 2014 7,998,296 m m 8 September 2011 8 September 2014 84,413 Not later than one year 1.0 0.7 27,304,102 24,810,239 Later than one year but not more than five years 2.6 3.6 3.6 4.3 Future finance charges on finance leases 0.3 0.4 Present value of finance lease liabilities 3.3 3.9 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 101 Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued 14 Equity continued 14.1 Ordinary shares continued Savings-related Share Option Scheme In addition, options were granted under the terms of The Sage Group plc 1996 Savings-related Share Option Scheme approved by members on 7 February 1996 up to 2005 and thereafter under the new scheme approved by the members at the Annual General Meeting on 2 March 2006, as follows: Exercise price 2011 2010 Date of grant pence Exercise period number number 1 March 2004 140.00p 1 March 2011 31 August 2011 27,556 1 March 2005 157.00p 1 March 2012 31 August 2012 10,701 16,918 1 August 2006 184.00p 1 August 2011 31 January 2012 15,446 114,465 1 August 2006 184.00p 1 August 2013 31 January 2014 20,999 20,999 1 August 2007 203.00p 1 August 2010 31 January 2011 69,521 1 August 2007 203.00p 1 August 2012 31 January 2013 62,747 69,199 1 August 2007 203.00p 1 August 2014 31 January 2015 18,525 18,525 1 August 2008 177.00p 1 August 2011 31 January 2012 67,812 393,133 1 August 2008 177.00p 1 August 2013 31 January 2014 132,836 160,745 1 August 2008 177.00p 1 August 2015 31 January 2016 9,462 9,462 1 August 2009 149.00p 1 August 2012 31 January 2013 1,077,740 1,173,389 1 August 2009 149.00p 1 August 2014 31 January 2015 292,261 301,293 1 August 2009 149.00p 1 August 2016 31 January 2017 28,392 50,403 1 August 2010 190.00p 1 August 2013 31 January 2014 463,975 537,227 1 August 2010 190.00p 1 August 2015 31 January 2016 142,620 166,228 1 August 2010 190.00p 1 August 2017 31 January 2018 18,099 18,099 1 August 2011 234.00p 1 August 2014 31 January 2015 621,743 1 August 2011 234.00p 1 August 2016 31 January 2017 95,540 1 August 2011 234.00p 1 August 2018 31 January 2019 20,348 3,099,246 3,147,162 Under the above scheme, 491,517 1p ordinary shares were issued during the year for aggregate proceeds of 0.9m.
The market price of the shares of the Company at 30 September 2011 was 256.40p and the highest and lowest prices during the year were 302.00p and 231.70p respectively.
14.2 Share-based payments The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was 3.2m 2010: 10.0m, 2010 restated: 9.8m, all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
After deferred tax, the total charge was 3.9m 2010: 8.1m.
A reconciliation of share movements for options granted after 7 November 2002 to which IFRS 2, Share-based Payment is applicable is shown on the following pages.
ESOS There have been no grants of executive share options under the 1999 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS since June 2008.
Long-term incentive awards are made under The Sage Group plc Performance Share Plan.
The performance targets governing the vesting of existing options are based on stretching EPS growth measured over a fixed three-year period from the start of the financial year in which the grant is made.
30% of options will vest at the end of the period if the increase in EPS exceeds the Retail Prices Index RPI by 15% an average of 5% per year and 100% of those options will vest at that time only if the RPI is exceeded in that period by 27% an average of 9% per year.
Between those targets, options will vest on a straight-line basis.
If those targets are not met at the end of the three-year period, then no further retesting of the performance criteria will be undertaken and the options will lapse.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free 1 August 2008 177.00p 1 August 2015 31 January 2016 9,462 9,462 rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
Exercisable at 30 September 10,486 2.17 14,728 2.10 The market price of the shares of the Company at 30 September 2011 was 256.40p and the highest and lowest prices during the year were 302.00p and 231.70p respectively.
2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average Weighted Weighted average 14.2 Share-based payments average average remaining life years remaining life years exercise Number exercise Number The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was 3.2m 2010: 10.0m, 2010 restated: 9.8m, all of which related price of shares price of shares to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
A reconciliation of share movements Range of exercise prices 000s Expected Contractual 000s Expected Contractual for options granted after 7 November 2002 to which IFRS 2, Share-based Payment is applicable is shown on the following pages.
There have been no grants of executive share options under the 1999 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS since June 2008.
Long-term incentive The Sage Group PSP awards are made under The Sage Group plc Performance Share Plan.
The Performance Share Plan the Plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2005 and amended at the Annual General The performance targets governing the vesting of existing options are based on stretching EPS growth measured over a fixed three-year period from Meeting in 2009.
Annual grants of performance shares will normally be made to executive directors and senior executives across the Group after the the start of the financial year in which the grant is made.
30% of options will vest at the end of the period if the increase in EPS exceeds the Retail Prices preliminary declaration of the annual results.
Index RPI by 15% an average of 5% per year and 100% of those options will vest at that time only if the RPI is exceeded in that period by 27% an average of 9% per year.
If those targets are not met at the end of the three-year Following the amendments to the scheme, annual awards under the Plan are limited to shares worth up to 300% of base salary.
In practice, annual period, then no further retesting of the performance criteria will be undertaken and the options will lapse.
grants to executive directors are limited to shares with a maximum value on award of 210% of base salary except in exceptional circumstances, such as a promotion or recruitment or to reflect local market practice.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 103 Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued 14 Equity continued 14.2 Share-based payments continued The performance shares are subject to performance conditions on a sliding scale based on EPS.
25% of the award will vest at the end of the period if the increase in EPS exceeds RPI by 9% an average of 3% per year : 100% of the award will vest at that time only if RPI is exceeded in that period by 27% an average of 9% per year.
Between those targets, awards will vest on a straight-line basis, and if those targets are not met there is no opportunity for re-testing.
Awards are then subject to a TSR multiplier whereby the level of vesting based on EPS achievement will be adjusted according to TSR performance over the same three-year period compared with a group of international software and computer services companies.
The comparator group for awards made in 2011 comprised the following companies: Adobe Systems Cegid Logica Salesforce.
com ARM Holdings Dassault Systemes Micro Focus International SAP Autonomy Exact Microsoft Software AG Blackbaud Intuit Misys Cap Gemini Lawson Software Oracle If Sages TSR is ranked at lower quartile in the group, the multiplier is 0.75.
If Sages TSR is ranked at median in the group, the multiplier is 1.
If Sages TSR is ranked at upper quartile in the group, then the multiplier is 1.5.
Straight-line pro-rating applies between 0.75 and 1, and between 1 and 1.5, but the multiplier cannot be higher or lower than these figures.
Awards were valued using the Monte Carlo option-pricing model.
The fair value per award granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: March March September March Grant date 2009 2010 2011 2011 Share price at grant date 1.62 2.42 2.70 2.57 Exercise price 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Number of employees 208 231 223 1 Shares under award 11,379,360 7,842,033 7,998,296 84,413 Vesting period years 33 33 Expected volatility 33% 32% 31% 29% Award life years 33 33 Expected life years 33 33 Risk free rate 1.5% 1.6% 1.6% 0.6% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Fair value per award 1.434 1.945 2.121 1.993 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed award life.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year is shown below: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number price Number price 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 October 24,810 19,109 Awarded 8,586 8,173 Forfeited 4,925 1,038 Exercised 1,167 1,434 Outstanding at 30 September 27,304 24,810 Exercisable at 30 September 104 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued 2011 2010 14 Equity continued Weighted average remaining Weighted average 14.2 Share-based payments continued life years remaining life years The performance shares are subject to performance conditions on a sliding scale based on EPS.
25% of the award will vest at the end of the period if Weighted Weighted average average the increase in EPS exceeds RPI by 9% an average of 3% per year : 100% of the award will vest at that time only if RPI is exceeded in that period by exercise Number exercise Number 27% an average of 9% per year.
Between those targets, awards will vest on a straight-line basis, and if those targets are not met there is no opportunity price of shares price of shares Range of exercise prices 000s Expected Contractual 000s Expected Contractual for re-testing.
N A 27,304 1.3 1.3 24,810 1.6 1.6 The comparator group for awards made in 2011 comprised the following companies: The Sage Group Savings-related Share Option Plan the SAYE Plan Adobe Systems Cegid Logica Salesforce.
com In February 1996, the Company introduced an Inland Revenue approved savings-related share option scheme allowing all UK employees to apply for an option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company Shares at a price per Share which was not less than 80% of the market value of those Shares ARM Holdings Dassault Systemes Micro Focus International SAP when invitations for options were made.
The acquisition of the Shares was funded by the proceeds of a savings account with a bank or building society.
Autonomy Exact Microsoft Software AG The original scheme adopted in 1996 continued in accordance with its terms for ten years and expired in February 2006.
A new scheme was approved Blackbaud Intuit Misys by the members at the Annual General Meeting held on 2 March 2006.
Cap Gemini Lawson Software Oracle Eligibility If Sages TSR is ranked at lower quartile in the group, the multiplier is 0.75.
If Sages All UK employees, including executive directors, of the Company and its participating subsidiaries who have completed at least one years continuous TSR is ranked at upper quartile in the group, then the multiplier is 1.5.
Straight-line pro-rating applies between 0.75 and 1, and between 1 and 1.5, but service and are assessable to employment income tax are eligible to participate in the SAYE Plan.
The directors may offer participation to other the multiplier cannot be higher or lower than these figures.
employees and may alter the length of service required to qualify to a different period, not exceeding five years.
The fair value per Employee contributions award granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: An employee who wishes to participate in the SAYE Plan will enter into a contract the SAYE contract with a savings body, designated by the directors for the purpose of the SAYE Plan, to make monthly contributions by deduction from their pay of not more than the maximum contribution permitted from March March September March Grant date 2009 2010 2011 2011 time to time by HMRC currently 250.
Share price at grant date 1.62 2.42 2.70 2.57 A tax-free bonus currently equivalent to 1.4x or 4.4x the monthly contribution will be paid on completion of 36 or 60 monthly savings contributions Exercise price 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 respectively and another tax-free bonus currently 8.4x the monthly contribution including the payment at the end of 60 months will be paid after a further two years if the savings plus the initial bonus are not withdrawn prior to that date.
Number of employees 208 231 223 1 Shares under award 11,379,360 7,842,033 7,998,296 84,413 Exercise price An employee who applies for the grant of an option to acquire Shares will do so at a price the Exercise Price which is determined by the directors Vesting period years 33 33 but which is not less than the greater of: Expected volatility 33% 32% 31% 29% 80% of the middle market quotation of a Share on the dealing day prior to the date of invitation as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Award life years 33 33 Official List or, if the directors so decide, 80% of the average of the middle market quotations over the three dealing days prior to the date of the Expected life years 33 33 invitation or 80% of the middle market quotations at such other time or times agreed in advance with HMRC : and Risk free rate 1.5% 1.6% 1.6% 0.6% In the case of an option over unissued Shares, the nominal value of a Share.
Expected dividends Grant of options expressed as a dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Each option is granted over a number of Shares which, when multiplied by the Exercise Price, does not exceed the total monthly contributions plus the Fair value per award 1.434 1.945 2.121 1.993 bonus payable on the maturity of the SAYE contract.
There will be no payment for the grant of an option.
Invitations to apply for options must be made The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years.
The risk free within a period of 42 days after: rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed award life.
Approval of the SAYE Plan by HMRC: or A reconciliation of award movements over the year is shown below: The publication by the Company of its interim or final results each year: or 2011 2010 The day after the Companys Annual General Meeting: or Weighted Weighted Any day on which any change to the savings-related share option schemes legislation is announced or made: or average average exercise exercise If the directors resolve that exceptional circumstances exist which justify the operation of the SAYE Plan.
Number price Number price 000s 000s Exercise of options In normal circumstances, an option may be exercised at any time within six months following maturity of the SAYE contract, using the proceeds Outstanding at 1 October 24,810 19,109 of the SAYE contract and the applicable bonus.
Awarded 8,586 8,173 Forfeited 4,925 1,038 Exercised 1,167 1,434 Outstanding at 30 September 27,304 24,810 Exercisable at 30 September Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 105 Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued 14 Equity continued 14.2 Share-based payments continued Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Performance conditions were not included in the fair value calculations.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three, five or seven years on the assumption that 15% of options will lapse over the service period as employees leave the Group.
A reconciliation of option movements over the year is shown below: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number price Number price 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 October 3,147 1.68 3,355 1.65 Awarded 757 2.34 732 1.90 Forfeited 328 1.76 544 1.69 Exercised 477 1.78 396 1.83 Outstanding at 30 September 3,099 1.81 3,147 1.68 Exercisable at 30 September 83 1.78 70 2.03 106 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued 2011 2010 14 Equity continued Weighted average remaining Weighted average 14.2 Share-based payments continued life years remaining life years Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The fair value Weighted Weighted average average per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: exercise Number exercise Number price of shares price of shares March August August August August August August August Range of exercise prices 000s Expected Contractual 000s Expected Contractual Grant date 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2008 1.49 2.34 1.81 3,099 2.0 2.5 1.68 3,147 2.3 2.8 Share price at grant date 2.06 2.28 2.28 2.28 2.28 1.98 1.98 1.98 Exercise price 1.57 1.84 1.84 2.03 2.03 1.77 1.77 1.77 14.3 Share premium Number of employees 2 11 8 32 5 43 47 5 m Shares under option 10,701 15,446 20,999 62,747 18,525 67,812 132,836 9,462 At 1 October 2009 492.0 Vesting period years 7 5 7 5 7 3 5 7 Premium on shares issued during the year under share option schemes 7.8 Expected volatility 54% 42% 51% 34% 45% 28% 27% 39% At 1 October 2010 499.8 Option life years 7 5 7 5 7 3 5 7 Premium on shares issued during the year under share option schemes 13.4 Expected life years 7 5 7 5 7 3 5 7 At 30 September 2011 513.2 Risk free rate 4.7% 4.7% 4.6% 5.3% 5.2% 4.8% 4.8% 4.8% Expected dividends 14.4 Other reserves expressed as a dividend yield 1.6% 1.6% 1.6% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% Total Fair value per option 1.176 1.028 1.255 0.750 0.965 0.476 0.543 0.746 Translation Hedge Other other reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m August August August August August August August August August At 1 October 2009 188.7 0.3 61.1 249.5 Grant date 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 Currency translation differences 10.5 10.5 Share price at grant date 1.95 1.95 1.95 2.43 2.43 2.43 2.70 2.70 2.70 Cash flow hedges: Exercise price 1.49 1.49 1.49 1.90 1.90 1.90 2.34 2.34 2.34 Fair value losses in the year 0.7 0.7 Number of employees 436 61 11 336 53 7 544 47 10 At 30 September 2010 199.2 1.0 61.1 259.3 Shares under option 1,077,740 292,261 28,392 463,975 142,620 18,099 621,743 95,540 20,348 Currency translation differences 6.5 6.5 Vesting period years 3 5 7 3 5 7 3 5 7 Cash flow hedges: Expected volatility 33% 29% 35% 33% 29% 28% 29% 29% 27% Fair value gains in the year 1.0 1.0 Option life years 3 5 7 3 5 7 3 5 7 At 30 September 2011 205.7 61.1 266.8 Expected life years 3 5 7 3 5 7 3 5 7 Risk free rate 2.4% 3.1% 3.5% 1.5% 2.3% 2.9% 1.0% 1.7% 2.4% Translation reserve Expected dividends The translation reserve represents the accumulated exchange differences arising since the transition to IFRS from the following sources: expressed as a dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% The impact of the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than Sterling: and Fair value per option 0.565 0.580 0.682 0.576 0.600 0.634 0.448 0.497 0.507 Exchange differences arising on hedging instruments that are designated hedges of a net investment in foreign operations, net of tax The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three, five or seven years, consistent with the option life.
The expected life is the where applicable.
average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the Exchange differences arising prior to the IFRS transition were offset against retained earnings.
Hedge reserve The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three, five or seven years on the assumption that 15% of options will lapse over the service period as employees leave the Group.
The hedge reserve records movements on derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
A reconciliation of option movements over the year is shown below: Other reserve 2011 2010 Other reserves brought forward relate to the merger reserve which was present under UK GAAP and frozen on transition to IFRS.
Weighted Weighted average average Number price Number price 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 October 3,147 1.68 3,355 1.65 Awarded 757 2.34 732 1.90 Forfeited 328 1.76 544 1.69 Exercised 477 1.78 396 1.83 Outstanding at 30 September 3,099 1.81 3,147 1.68 Exercisable at 30 September 83 1.78 70 2.03 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 107 Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued 14 Equity continued 14.5 Retained earnings 2011 2010 m m At 1 October 877.1 742.9 Profit for the year 189.0 227.3 Value of employee services 3.2 10.0 Dividends 104.0 98.6 Purchase of treasury shares 7.3 Closed period share buyback programme 50.0 Actuarial gain loss on post employment benefit obligations 1.0 0.3 Equity movement of deferred income tax 1.7 3.1 At 30 September 914.6 877.1 The actuarial gain of 1.0m 2010: loss of 0.3m is made up of a gain of 0.2m 2010: gain of 0.5m on post employment benefits note 8 and a gain of 0.8m 2010: loss of 0.8m on other long-term employee benefits note 8.
Treasury shares share buyback programme Shares to be repurchased relate to an irrevocable closed period buyback agreement for 50.0m 2010: nil for the purchase of the Companys own shares which was announced on 30 September 2011.
Deutsche Bank AG has been appointed to manage the irrevocable buyback programme during the closed period which commenced on 4 October 2011 and will run up until 30 November 2011.
Treasury shares employee benefit trust The Group holds treasury shares in a trust which was set up for the benefit of Group employees.
The Trust purchases the Companys shares in the market for use in connection with the Groups share-based payments arrangements.
The Trust originally purchased the shares in February 2006, a further 2,990,210 shares were acquired by the Trust in August 2010 with the cost being reflected in retained earnings.
These shares were acquired by the Trust in the open market using funds provided by the Company to meet obligations under the Performance Share Plan.
During the year, 1,297,085 shares were utilised to meet these obligations.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the profit and loss account of the Company in the period to which they relate.
The market value of the shares at 30 September 2011 was 9.5m 2010: 13.8m.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Net debt and capital structure continued Other notes 14 Equity continued 15 Discontinued operations and non-current assets held for sale 14.5 Retained earnings 15.1 Discontinued operations Sage Software Healthcare, LLC 2011 2010 On 22 September 2011 the Group announced that a definitive agreement to sell Sage Software Healthcare, LLC Sage Healthcare had been reached m m for cash proceeds of 203.8m $320.0m.
Sage Healthcare offers practice management and electronic health record solutions to US physician At 1 October 877.1 742.9 practices.
Profit for the year 189.0 227.3 The control of Sage Healthcare was passed to Vista Equity Partners on 10 November 2011.
The proceeds are to be returned to shareholders through a Value of employee services 3.2 10.0 share buyback programme.
Dividends 104.0 98.6 15.2 Discontinued operations Financial performance Purchase of treasury shares 7.3 Sage Healthcare is reported in the financial statements for the year ended 30 September as discontinued operations, the financial performance for the Closed period share buyback programme 50.0 full year is below: Actuarial gain loss on post employment benefit obligations 1.0 0.3 2011 2010 Equity movement of deferred income tax 1.7 3.1 m m At 30 September 914.6 877.1 Revenue 149.7 157.3 Operating costs 138.2 136.3 The actuarial gain of 1.0m 2010: loss of 0.3m is made up of a gain of 0.2m 2010: gain of 0.5m on post employment benefits note 8 and a gain of 0.8m 2010: loss of 0.8m on other long-term employee benefits note 8.
Impairment of disposal group to fair value less costs to sell 121.5 Loss profit before taxation 110.0 21.0 Treasury shares share buyback programme Taxation 43.0 8.2 Shares to be repurchased relate to an irrevocable closed period buyback agreement for 50.0m 2010: nil for the purchase of the Companys own Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations 67.0 12.8 shares which was announced on 30 September 2011.
Earnings per share information can be found in note 4.1.
Treasury shares employee benefit trust 15.3 Discontinued operations Cash flow The Group holds treasury shares in a trust which was set up for the benefit of Group employees.
The Trust purchases the Companys shares The cash flow statement shows amounts related to discontinued operations.
in the market for use in connection with the Groups share-based payments arrangements.
The Trust originally purchased 15.4 Non-current assets and liabilities classified as held for sale the shares in February 2006, a further 2,990,210 shares were acquired by the Trust in August 2010 with the cost being reflected in retained earnings.
The assets and liabilities relating to Sage Healthcare have been presented as held for sale following the announcement on 22 September 2011 that a definitive agreement to sell Sage Healthcare had been reached.
Costs to sell have been included in trade and other payables.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged 2011 2010 to the profit and loss account of the Company in the period to which they relate.
The market value of the shares at 30 September 2011 was 9.5m m m 2010: 13.8m.
Goodwill 183.1 Other intangible assets 36.2 Property, plant and equipment 1.9 Inventories 1.0 Trade and other receivables 28.9 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 251.1 Trade and other payables 19.7 Deferred income 30.0 Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale 49.7 Net assets classified as held for sale 201.4 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 109 Financial statements Other notes continued 16 Acquisitions and disposals 16.1 Acquisitions made in the year The following acquisitions, each of the entire share capital of the relevant company, were made during the year: ALCIOR SARL was acquired on 24 March 2011 for a cash consideration of 0.8m.
The fair value of the assets acquired was 0.2m, resulting in goodwill of 0.6m.
Hominex Global, S. A. was acquired on 7 September 2011 for a cash consideration of 0.2m.
The fair value of the assets acquired was nil, resulting in goodwill of 0.2m.
The net identifiable assets were recognised at their fair values.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired has been recognised as goodwill.
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: Carrying values pre-acquisition Fair value Acquisitions m m Intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Trade and other receivables 0.2 0.2 Trade and other payables 0.7 0.7 Bank borrowings unsecured current 0.1 0.1 Income tax current 0.1 0.1 Income tax deferred 0.6 0.6 Deferred income 0.2 0.2 Total net identifiable assets acquired 0.2 0.2 Goodwill 0.8 Consideration satisfied by cash 1.0 Goodwill represents the fair value of the assembled workforce at the time of acquisition, potential synergies and other potential future economic benefits that are anticipated from the integration of services already offered by Sage with existing product and service offerings with the acquired businesses.
Acquisition related costs of 0.4m 2010: 0.1m have been included in selling and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 September 2011.
There is no contingent consideration payable on the acquisitions.
Contribution of acquisitions From the dates of the acquisitions to 30 September 2011, the acquisitions contributed 0.3m to revenue and incurred a loss before tax of 0.2m.
Had these acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the financial year, contribution to Group revenue would have been 0.5m and Group profit would have been reduced by 0.3m.
There were no other acquisitions made in the year.
16.2 Disposal of Sage Software Shanghai Co. Ltd On 28 July 2011 the Group disposed of Sage Software Shanghai Co. Ltd. China for nil consideration.
Details of net assets disposed of and the loss on disposal are as follows: Carrying value pre-disposal China disposal m Goodwill 1.3 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 Trade and other receivables 0.7 Bank borrowings unsecured current 1.1 Deferred income 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 Net assets disposed 0.9 The loss on disposal is calculated as follows: m Disposal proceeds Net assets disposed 0.9 Cumulative translation differences 0.1 Loss on disposal 0.8 110 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other notes continued 16 Acquisitions and disposals The outflow of cash and cash equivalents on the disposal of China is calculated as follows: m 16.1 Acquisitions made in the year Disposal proceeds Cash disposed 0.1 The following acquisitions, each of the entire share capital of the relevant company, were made during the year: Net cash outflow 0.1 ALCIOR SARL was acquired on 24 March 2011 for a cash consideration of 0.8m.
16.3 Other disposals made in the year Hominex Global, S. A. was acquired on 7 September 2011 for a cash consideration of 0.2m.
The fair value of the assets acquired was nil, The following other disposals were made during the year: resulting in goodwill of 0.2m.
On 8 October 2010 the Group disposed of the Providex business unit based in North America The net identifiable assets were recognised at their fair values.
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: On 29 October 2010 the Group disposed of the Carpe Diem business unit based in North America Carrying values There is no goodwill associated with the above disposals.
pre-acquisition Fair value Acquisitions m m Details of net assets disposed of and the gain on disposal are as follows: Intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Carrying value pre-disposal Trade and other receivables 0.2 0.2 Other disposals m Trade and other payables 0.7 0.7 Goodwill Bank borrowings unsecured current 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 0.9 Income tax current 0.1 0.1 Deferred income 0.8 Income tax deferred 0.6 0.6 Net assets disposed 0.1 Deferred income 0.2 0.2 Total net identifiable assets acquired 0.2 0.2 The gain on disposal is calculated as follows: m Goodwill 0.8 Disposal proceeds 2.1 Consideration satisfied by cash 1.0 Deferred consideration receivable 0.4 Goodwill represents the fair value of the assembled workforce at the time of acquisition, potential synergies and other potential future economic benefits Net assets disposed 0.1 that are anticipated from the integration of services already offered by Sage with existing product and service offerings with the acquired businesses.
Gain on disposal 2.4 Acquisition related costs of 0.4m 2010: 0.1m have been included in selling and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 September 2011.
Contribution of disposals Had these disposals occurred at the beginning of the financial year, Group revenue would have been 1,333.9m and Group profit before taxation would Contribution of acquisitions have been 331.0m.
From the dates of the acquisitions to 30 September 2011, the acquisitions contributed 0.3m to revenue and incurred a loss before tax of 0.2m.
Had these acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the financial year, contribution to Group revenue would have been 0.5m and Group profit would have 16.4 Other been reduced by 0.3m.
During the year ended 30 September 2011 adjustments were made in respect of goodwill on prior year acquisitions of 0.1m, due to a reduction in There were no other acquisitions made in the year.
16.2 Disposal of Sage Software Shanghai Co. Ltd 16.5 Analysis of net outflow of cash in respect of acquisitions and disposals On 28 July 2011 the Group disposed of Sage Software Shanghai Co. Ltd. China for nil consideration.
The outflow of cash and cash equivalents on the acquisitions and disposals is calculated as follows: Note m Acquisitions 16.1 1.0 Details of net assets disposed of and the loss on disposal are as follows: Payment of contingent consideration 0.4 Carrying value pre-disposal Acquisitions of subsidiaries 1.4 China disposal m China 16.2 0.1 Goodwill 1.3 Other disposals 16.3 2.1 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 Disposal of subsidiaries 2.0 Trade and other receivables 0.7 Net cash inflow in respect of acquisitions and disposals 0.6 Bank borrowings unsecured current 1.1 Deferred income 0.2 16.6 Analysis of goodwill Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 The total additions and disposals to goodwill are calculated as follows: Note m Net assets disposed 0.9 Acquisitions 16.1 0.8 Adjustments in relation to previous years acquisitions 16.4 0.1 The loss on disposal is calculated as follows: m Additions 0.7 Disposal proceeds China 16.2 1.3 Net assets disposed 0.9 Other disposals 16.3 Cumulative translation differences 0.1 Disposals 1.3 Loss on disposal 0.8 Net movement in goodwill on acquisitions and disposals 0.6 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 111 Financial statements Other notes continued 17 Related party transactions The Groups related parties are its subsidiary undertakings and Executive Committee members.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose details of transactions with its subsidiary undertakings.
Compensation paid to the Executive Committee is disclosed in note 2.2.
Supplier transactions occurred during the year between Softline Pty Ltd, one of the Groups subsidiary companies and Ivan Epstein, Chief Executive Officer, AAMEA.
These transactions relate to the lease of three properties in which Ivan Epstein has a minority and indirect shareholding.
During the year 0.8m 2010: 0.6m relating to these transactions were charged through selling and administrative expenses.
There were no outstanding amounts payable as at the year ended 2011 2010: nil.
Supplier transactions occurred during the year between Sage SP, S. L. one of the Groups subsidiary companies and lvaro Ramrez, Chief Executive Officer, Europe.
These transactions relate to the lease of a property in which lvaro Ramrez has a minority shareholding.
During the year 0.3m 2010: 0.2m relating to these transactions were charged through selling and administrative expenses.
These arrangements are subject to independent review using external advisers to ensure all transactions are at arms length.
18 Post balance sheet events 18.1 Disposal of Sage Software Healthcare, LLC On 10 November 2011 the Group disposed of the entire share capital of Sage Healthcare for 203.8m cash.
Details of net assets disposed of and the gain on disposal are as follows: Carrying value pre-disposal Sage Healthcare disposal m Non-current assets classified as held for sale 248.0 Liabilities directly associated within non-current assets classified as held for sale 47.9 Net assets disposed 200.1 Net assets disposed of vary from those disclosed at 30 September 2011 in note 15.4, due to the movement of exchange rates net of trading activity between 1 October 2011 and the date of disposal.
The gain on disposal is calculated as follows: m Disposal proceeds, less costs to sell 199.8 Net assets disposed 200.1 Cumulative translation differences 60.4 Gain on disposal 60.1 As at 30 September 2011 the sale was deemed highly probable and recorded in the Consolidated balance sheet as an asset held for sale and in the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of cash flows as discontinued operations.
18.2 Share buyback On 30 September 2011 the Group appointed Deutsche Bank AG to manage an irrevocable buyback programme during the closed period which commenced on 4 October 2011 and will run up to 30 November 2011.
From 4 October 2011 to 25 November 2011, the latest practical date prior to publication of the Annual Report & Accounts, 7,495,884 ordinary shares of 1p each were repurchased through Deutsche Bank AG at an average price of 269.20 pence per share.
The highest and lowest prices paid for these shares were 275.00 pence per share and 247.60 pence per share respectively.
The purchased shares will all be held as treasury shares, the total number of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held as treasury shares at 25 November 2011 is 1,316,481,232.
The total number of voting rights in Sage, excluding treasury shares, as at 25 November is 1,316,481,232.
This figure may be used by shareholders as the denominator for the calculations by which they will determine if they are required to notify their interest in, or a change to their interest in, Sage under the FSA's Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
18.3 Acquisition of Alchemex Pty Ltd On 1 October 2011 the Group completed the acquisition of the entire share capital of Alchemex Pty Ltd, for cash consideration of 2.9m and contingent consideration of 3.6m.
The fair value of assets acquired was 0.4m, resulting in goodwill of 6.1m.
18.4 Archer Capital lawsuit On 14 November 2011 the Group announced the claim for damages made by Archer Capital Archer following the termination of discussions between the Group and Archer relating to the potential purchase of MYOB.
The Group strongly rejects the claim, which it understands to be in the region of 80m A$130m, and will defend itself vigorously.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other notes continued 17 Related party transactions 19 Principal subsidiaries The Groups related parties are its subsidiary undertakings and Executive Committee members.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption Detailed below is a list of those subsidiaries which in the opinion of the directors principally affect the amount of the profit or the amount of the assets available under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose details of transactions with its subsidiary undertakings.
Compensation paid to the of the Group.
The Group percentage of equity capital and voting rights is 100% and all of these subsidiaries are wholly owned and are engaged in the Executive Committee is disclosed in note 2.2. development, distribution and support of business management software and related products and services for small and medium-sized businesses.
Supplier transactions occurred during the year between Softline Pty Ltd, one of the Groups subsidiary companies and Ivan Epstein, Chief Executive Incorporated subsidiaries Officer, AAMEA.
During the year Name Country of incorporation 0.8m 2010: 0.6m relating to these transactions were charged through selling and administrative expenses.
There were no outstanding amounts Sage UK Ltd UK payable as at the year ended 2011 2010: nil.
Sage Hibernia Limited Ireland Supplier transactions occurred during the year between Sage SP, S. L. one of the Groups subsidiary companies and lvaro Ramrez, Chief Executive Sage Software, Inc.
During the year 0.3m Sage Payment Solutions, Inc.
US 2010: 0.2m relating to these transactions were charged through selling and administrative expenses.
There were no outstanding amounts payable Sage Software Healthcare, LLC US as at the year ended 2011 2010: nil.
Sage Software Canada Ltd Canada These arrangements are subject to independent review using external advisers to ensure all transactions are at arms length.
Ciel SAS France Sage SAS France 18 Post balance sheet events Sage FDC SAS France 18.1 Disposal of Sage Software Healthcare, LLC Sage Holding France SAS France On 10 November 2011 the Group disposed of the entire share capital of Sage Healthcare for 203.8m cash.
Sage Software GmbH Germany Details of net assets disposed of and the gain on disposal are as follows: Sage Burer GmbH Germany Carrying value Sage Schweiz AG Switzerland pre-disposal Sage Healthcare disposal m Sage SP, S. L. Spain Non-current assets classified as held for sale 248.0 Sage Logic Control, S. L. Spain Liabilities directly associated within non-current assets classified as held for sale 47.9 Sage sp.
z. o. o. Poland Net assets disposed 200.1 Sage Portugal Software S. A. Portugal Micropay Pty Ltd Australia Net assets disposed of vary from those disclosed at 30 September 2011 in note 15.4, due to the movement of exchange rates net of trading activity Handisoft Software Pty Ltd Australia between 1 October 2011 and the date of disposal.
Sage Business Solutions Pty Ltd Australia The gain on disposal is calculated as follows: m Softline Pty Ltd South Africa Disposal proceeds, less costs to sell 199.8 Sage Software Asia Pte Ltd Singapore Net assets disposed 200.1 Sage Software Sdn Bhd Malaysia Cumulative translation differences 60.4 Gain on disposal 60.1 As at 30 September 2011 the sale was deemed highly probable and recorded in the Consolidated balance sheet as an asset held for sale and in the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of cash flows as discontinued operations.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 113 Financial statements Contents Company financial statements 115 Independent auditors report Primary financial statements 116 Company balance sheet Notes to the financial statements 117 Company accounting policies Results for the year 118 Dividends Operating assets and liabilities 119 Investments 119 Cash at bank and in hand 119 Debtors 119 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 119 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments Net debt and capital structure 120 Creditors: amounts falling due in more than one year 120 Equity Other notes 122 Capital commitments and contingent liabilities 122 Related party transactions 122 Post balance sheet events 114 | The Sage Group plc | www.
