Statement of accounting policies and general information General information on the Company and the Group Salamander Energy Plc the Company is a company registered in Great Britain on 13 September 2006 under the Companies Act, which serves as a holding company for the Group.
The address of the registered office is 4th Floor, 25 Great Pulteney Street, London W1F 9LT.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are as an independent oil and gas exploration, development and production company focused on building a portfolio of assets in Southeast Asia.
Financial information The financial information is presented in US Dollars because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with policies set out later in this section.
At the date of authorisation of this financial information, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in this financial information were in issue but are not yet effective: IFRS 1 amended Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income IAS 12 amended Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine The adoption of IFRS 9, which the Group plans to adopt for the year beginning on 1 January 2015, will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments.
The Directors anticipate the adoption of the other Standards and Interpretations listed above will not have a material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group.
Accounting policies and presentation of financial information Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations adopted for use in the European Union and therefore the consolidated Financial Statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
63 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Statement of accounting policies and general information continued Accounting policies and presentation of financial information continued Basis of preparation continued The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as set out in the Directors Report.
The separate Financial Statements of the Parent Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by the Act, the separate Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The principal accounting policies are the same as those set out in the Statement of Accounting Policies and General Information in this section.
As a Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is included, a separate statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company has not been included in accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The loss for the year for the Parent Company is disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity in the Company Financial Statements.
Adoption of new and revised accounting standards In the current year, a number of new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted, including amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
However, none of these revisions had any impact on the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated Financial Statements consist of the Financial Statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Revenues and the results of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income from the dates on which control over the operating and financial decisions is obtained.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiary and joint venture entities to bring the accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
Commercial reserves Commercial reserves are proved and probable 2P oil and gas reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially viable.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven and probable reserves and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Where a Group Company undertakes its activities under joint venture arrangements directly, the Groups share of jointly controlled assets and any liabilities incurred jointly with other ventures are recognised in the Financial Statements of the relevant Company and classified according to their nature.
64 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Accounting policies and presentation of financial information continued Joint ventures continued Liabilities and expenses incurred directly in respect of interests in jointly controlled assets are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Income from the sale or use of the Groups share of the output of jointly controlled assets, and its share of joint venture expenses, are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to from the Group and their amount can be measured reliably.
Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
The Group reports its interest in jointly controlled entities using proportionate consolidation, that is, the Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of jointly controlled entities that are combined with the equivalent items in consolidated Financial Statements on a line-by-line basis.
Where the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture.
Acquisitions On an acquisition that qualifies as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill, which is treated as an intangible asset.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period of acquisition.
If the Group acquires a group of assets or equity in a company that does not constitute a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combination, the cost of the acquired group of assets or equity is allocated to the individual identifiable assets acquired based on their relative fair value.
Revenue Revenue represents the sales value, net of VAT and equivalent taxes, of the Groups share of liftings in the period together with tariff income.
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Income received under take-or-pay sales contracts in respect of undelivered volumes is accounted for as deferred income.
Revenue is recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Interest revenue Interest revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to movements in oil and gas prices, interest rates and foreign exchange.
The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes.
65 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Statement of accounting policies and general information continued Accounting policies and presentation of financial information continued Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value The purpose for which a derivative is used is established at inception.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the derivative must be highly effective in achieving its objective and this effectiveness must be documented at inception and throughout the period of the instrument designation.
Gains or losses on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment either from inception or during the life of the instrument are taken directly to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period.
These include economic hedges that might qualify as accounting hedges, but were not designated as such at inception.
The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, a discounted cash flow analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
The estimated fair value of these derivatives is included in other creditors or other debtors in the Balance Sheet and the related changes in the fair value are included in other financial gains and losses in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Upon settlement, the cumulative amount of previously recognised gains or losses is reversed out of other financial gains and losses and, together with any final realised gains or losses, recorded within revenue.
During 2011 and 2010 there were no derivatives that were designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
Cost of sales Underlift and overlift Lifting or offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced in certain of the Groups jointly owned operations are such that each participant may not receive and sell its precise share of the overall production in each period.
The resulting imbalance between cumulative entitlement and cumulative production is underlift or overlift.
Underlift and overlift are valued at market value and included within debtors and creditors respectively.
Movements during an accounting period are adjusted through cost of sales such that gross profit is recognised on an entitlements basis.
Share based payment The Company has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share Based Payment.
The Group makes equity settled share based payment to certain employees.
Equity settled share based schemes are measured at fair value of the equity instrument at the date of grant.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share based transactions are set out in note 28.
The fair value determined at the grant of the equity settled share based payment is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of the non-market based vesting conditions.
The expenses so recognised are simultaneously added back as an adjustment through equity.
66 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Accounting policies and presentation of financial information continued Operating leases Rentals under operating leases are charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated before investment income and finance costs.
Foreign currencies The individual Financial Statements of each Group Company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial position of each Group Company are expressed in US Dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated Financial Statements.
On consolidation, Financial Statements of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries are translated into US Dollars whereby the results of the overseas operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for the period and their Balance Sheets at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Transactions in foreign currencies in individual subsidiaries are recorded at the rates of exchange ruling at the transaction dates.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated into US Dollars at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date, with a corresponding charge or credit to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Finance costs and borrowings Finance costs of borrowings are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Debt is shown on the Balance Sheet net of arrangement fees and issue costs, and amortised through to the statement of comprehensive income as finance costs over the term of the debt.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit and loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Taxation Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas corporation tax, are provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred corporation tax is recognised on all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on acquisitions that are categorised as business combinations.
Deferred tax is recognised at acquisition as part of the assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
Any deferred tax is charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive income as the underlying temporary difference is reversed.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted at the balance sheet date.
67 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Statement of accounting policies and general information continued Accounting policies and presentation of financial information continued Exploration and evaluation assets The Group adopts the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation costs.
All licence acquisition, exploration and evaluation costs are initially capitalised as intangible fixed assets in cost centres by well, field or exploration area, as appropriate.
Directly attributable administration costs and borrowing costs are capitalised insofar as they relate to specific exploration and development activities.
Pre-licence costs are expensed in the period they are incurred.
If prospects are deemed to be impaired unsuccessful on completion of an evaluation, the associated capitalised costs are charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
If the field is determined to be commercially viable, the attributable costs are transferred to property, plant and equipment in a single field cost centre.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated in the Balance Sheet at cost less accumulated amortisation and depreciation.
Oil and gas properties Oil and gas properties expenditures carried within each field are amortised from the commencement of production, on a unit of production basis, which is the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the period plus the production in the period, on a field-by-field basis.
Costs used in the unit of production calculation comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the estimated future field development costs.
The production and reserve estimates used in the calculation are on an entitlements basis.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future field development costs are dealt with prospectively.
Where there has been a change in economic conditions including commodity assumptions and cost of capital that indicate a possible impairment of a field previously determined to be commercially viable, the recoverability of the net book amount relating to that field is assessed by comparison with its recoverable amount, which is typically the estimated discounted future cash flows based on managements expectations of future oil and gas prices and future costs.
Any impairment identified is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income as additional depreciation, depletion and amortisation.
Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the Statement of Comprehensive income, net of any depreciation that would have been charged since the impairment.
Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full when the related facilities are installed, where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to decommission.
A corresponding amount equivalent to the provision is also recognised as part of the cost of the related property, plant and equipment.
The amount recognised is the estimated cost of decommissioning, discounted to its net present value and is reassessed each year in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
Changes in the estimated timing of decommissioning or decommissioning cost estimates are dealt with prospectively by recording an adjustment to the provision, and a corresponding adjustment to property, plant and equipment.
The unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning provision is included as finance costs.
Other fixed assets Property, plant and equipment, other than oil and gas properties, is depreciated at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful economic life of between three and five years.
68 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Accounting policies and presentation of financial information continued Investments Investments in subsidiaries and joint venture entities held by the Company as non-current assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Share issue expenses and share premium account Costs of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the issue of share capital.
Inventories Inventories of oil are stated at their net realisable values.
Inventories of materials are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit and loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for all debt instruments.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL Financial assets are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss where the Group acquires the financial asset principally for the purpose of selling in the near term, is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short term profit taking, as well as all derivatives that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments.
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in Profit and Loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit and loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the other financial gains and losses line item in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 25.
69 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Statement of accounting policies and general information continued Accounting policies and presentation of financial information continued Financial instruments continued Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
All impairment losses are taken to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Trade receivables are assessed for impairment based on the number of days outstanding on individual invoices.
Any trade receivable that is deemed uncollectible is immediately written off to the Statement of Comprehensive Income: any subsequent recoveries are also taken directly to the Statement of Comprehensive Income upon receipt of cash collected.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit and loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit and loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the other financial gains and losses line item in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Critical judgements and accounting estimates In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies described above, management has made judgements and estimates that may have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements.
70 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Accounting policies and presentation of financial information continued Critical judgements and accounting estimates continued Management is required to assess the level of the Groups commercial reserves together with the future expenditures to access those reserves, which are utilised in determining the amortisation and depreciation charge for the period and assessing whether any impairment charge is required.
The Group employs independent reserves specialists who periodically report on the Groups level of commercial reserves by evaluating the estimates of the Groups in house reserves specialists and where necessary referencing geological, geophysical and engineering data together with reports, presentations and financial information pertaining to the contractual and fiscal terms applicable to the Groups assets.
In addition the Group undertakes its own assessment of commercial reserves and related future capital expenditure by reference to the same datasets using its own internal expertise.
The estimates adopted by the Group may differ from the independent reserves specialists estimates where management considers that adjustments are appropriate in the circumstances.
Management is required to assess intangible fixed assets for impairment with reference to the indicators provided in IFRS 6 Exploration for Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
Note 12 to the consolidated Financial Statements discloses the carrying value of such assets.
Management is required to determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired under a business combination, including the cost of the acquisition, and allocate a fair value cost to the underlying assets acquired.
There were no transactions in the current year that qualified as a business combination.
Management is required to review and potentially test property, plant and equipment for impairment, usually by estimating a pre-tax value in use for each asset held and comparing that value to the net book amount of the asset being carried in the Balance Sheet.
Such a review is done on at least an annual basis.
This requires estimates to be made from, in particular, future commodity prices, production volumes, capital operating expenditure and an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
Details of certain impairments that arose in the current year are provided in note 13 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
Management, with regard to the BNPP led Reserves Based Lending facility, is required to estimate the amount of borrowings that are classified as due within one year and the amount that is classified as due after one year, as the calculations are based on uncertain future assumptions such as oil price and other economic factors.
In recording a provision for decommissioning, management is required to make estimates as to the legal requirements, related costs, timing of work and the discount rate.
Management is required to make assumptions in respect of the inputs used to calculate the fair values of share based payment arrangements.
Details of these assumptions and the resultant charge to the Statement of Comprehensive Income are provided in note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group is subject to income tax principally in Thailand and Indonesia.
In deciding whether provisions are required for uncertain tax positions, management is required to make judgements as to the status of on-going discussions with the relevant tax authorities and other counterparties and uses both its in house tax expertise and advice from independent tax advisers.
In such circumstances the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes based on the best information available and where the anticipated liability is both probable and estimable.
Management is required to assess the carrying value of investments in subsidiaries in the Parent Company Balance Sheet for impairment by reference to the recoverable amount.
This requires an estimate of amounts recoverable from oil and gas assets within the underlying subsidiaries, which is inherently uncertain.
71 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
