Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Group Financial Statements STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for keeping adequate The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Report and the group and parent company financial the parent companys transactions and disclose with statements in accordance with applicable law and reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of regulations.
the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and They have general responsibility for taking such steps parent company financial statements for each financial as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as irregularities.
adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in Under applicable law and regulations, the directors accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and Under company law the directors must not approve the those regulations.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
integrity of the corporate and financial information In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: jurisdictions.
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
92 STATUTORY INFORMATION 4 93 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
