Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Serco Group plc the Group is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These Consolidated Financial Statements the financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These financial statements on pages 109 to 164 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union EU and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year except as stated below.
As discussed in more detail in the Finance Review, these financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Adoption of new and revised standards The following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-Time Adopters The amendment relieves first-time adopters of IFRSs from providing the additional disclosures introduced in March 2009 by Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments Amendments to IFRS 7.
IAS 24 2009 Related Party Disclosures The amendments to IAS 24 have updated the definition of a related party and of a related party transaction to clarify the intended meaning and remove inconsistencies.
In addition, the revised standard provides an exemption from the disclosure requirements for transactions between entities controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by the same state.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Classification of Rights Issues Rights issues offered for a fixed amount of foreign currency practice appeared to require such issues to be accounted for as derivative liabilities.
The amendment states that if such rights are issued pro rata to an entitys all existing shareholders in the same class for a fixed amount of currency, they should be classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement The amendments now enable recognition of an asset in the form of prepaid minimum funding contributions.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IFRIC 19 provides guidance on how an entity should account for transactions where a creditor agrees to accept an entitys shares or other equity instruments to settle a financial liability fully or partially in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
Improvements to IFRSs 2010 Aside from those items already identified above, the amendments made to standards under the 2010 improvements of IFRSs have had no impact on the Group.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 113 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
