Section 5 | Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 26.
Financial risk management continued 26 g Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty could default on its contractual obligations.
In this regard, the Groups principal exposure is to cash and cash equivalents, derivative transactions and trade receivables.
The Groups trade receivables credit risk is relatively low given that a high proportion of our customer base are government bodies with strong sovereign, or sovereign-like, credit ratings.
However, where the assessed creditworthiness of a customer, government or non government, falls below that considered acceptable, appropriate measures are taken to mitigate against the risk of contractual default using instruments such as credit guarantees.
The Groups Treasury function only transacts with counterparties that comply with Board policy.
The credit risk is measured by way of a counterparty credit rating and as a minimum any counterparty must have a long-term public rating of Single A from any two recognised rating agencies.
Pre-approved limits are set based on a rating matrix and exposures monitored accordingly.
The Group also employs the use of set-off rights in some agreements.
26 h Capital risk The Group defines capital as equity, debt capital market issuance, loans and borrowings note 22 and cash and cash equivalents note 21.
The Group does not have any externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by Company Law.
The Boards objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Groups strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping the portfolio through mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
In doing so the Board seeks to manage funding and liquidity risk, optimise shareholder return and maintain an implied investment grade credit position.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Board reviews and approves at least annually a treasury policy document which covers, inter alia, funding and liquidity risk, capital structure and risk management.
This policy details targets for committed funding headroom, diversification of committed funding and debt maturity profile.
The Articles of Association of Serco Group plc require that the net borrowings of Serco Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings shall not at any time without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution exceed three and a half times adjusted capital and reserves.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders and it intends to pursue a policy of dividend growth that broadly reflects the increase in underlying earnings of the business.
Retirement benefit schemes The Group has accounted for pensions in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
The pension charge for the year ended 31 December 2011, including the proportionate share of joint ventures, was 112.3m 2010: 106.5m.
27 a Defined benefit schemes The Group operates defined benefit schemes for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in the UK and Europe.
In addition, the Group has interests in joint ventures, which operate defined benefit schemes for qualifying employees.
The assets of the funded schemes are held independently of the Groups assets in separate trustee administered funds.
The Groups major schemes are valued by independent actuaries annually using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method.
This reflects service rendered by employees to the dates of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions primarily regarding discount rates used in determining the present value of benefits, projected rates of salary growth, and long-term expected rates of return for scheme assets.
Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds in the country concerned.
Long-term expected rates of return for scheme assets are based on published brokers forecasts for each category of scheme assets.
Pension assets and liabilities in different defined benefit schemes are not offset unless the Group has a legally enforceable right to use the surplus in one scheme to settle obligations in the other scheme and intends to exercise this right.
148 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011
