16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Severn Trent Services Performance Water Purication Products A challenging economic Industry publications and trade associations environment and social and reported market contractions in the range of political uncertainty impacted 4% for water equipment.
Despite the slower than anticipated market recovery, we were negatively on performance, able to grow some product lines, mainly in especially in the second half.
ltration, while disinfection, particularly electrochlorination, was impacted by the However, we made good moratorium on the Gulf of Mexico deep well progress in reducing our drilling.
The US water business was costs and improving our particularly impacted, with the budget crises experienced by municipal establishments environment and health and rippling out to the market.
In the future we safety performance.
We are expect recovery in this market to be slow Case study and gradual.
Growing business in Spain also investing in specic segments, both in our Products Our acquisition of PS Apliclor SA near Barcelona business and Operating Despite the slower than in 2009 has resulted in Services, to capture growth anticipated market recovery, several new orders in the opportunities and deliver we were able to grow some country, such as a contract to supply Spains largest longer term profitability.
The plant will The wider social and economic environment In Europe, after a slow start, activity picked improve water management remained challenging, particularly in the up towards the end of the year.
In the UK, in the region, which supplies second half of the year, with delays to more projects were commissioned as water 140,000 residents with nancing of capital projects: the Gulf coast companies settled into the new regulatory drinking water.
This is a deep well drilling moratorium in the US: and period.
Delays in nancing in our other good working example of political unrest in the Middle East.
There European markets led to a slowdown in our acquisition strategy to were a few visible signs of recovery in the product shipments.
However, while projects create a European hub from majority of our markets post the financial were delayed, none were cancelled.
which we can bring new crisis, although a few markets, China for With the exception of China, which Water Purication business example, were more robust.
The impact was remained healthy for most of the year, to the rest of the region.
felt most acutely in our Products business, uncertainties around the economy and particularly disinfection products in the US, funding also affected our business in Asia and in Operating Services the impact was Pacic, although in the final quarter of the mainly in Europe, particularly Italy.
year there were some signs of improvement.
New project orders turnover : Denitrication plant in China Electrochlorination in India 1m 1.3m Electrochlorination in Egypt Filtration blocks in Mexico 2.8m 2.8m Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 South America remains relatively strong Analytical Services with 36% year on year growth and a number Our business continued to feel the effects of attractive orders, including two orders of the UK slowdown, particularly in the for ltration blocks in Mexico worth over commercial sector.
We have just reached 2.8 million.
the end of the first full year of our 10 year contract with Yorkshire Water, using our new In the Middle East and North Africa MENA laboratory in Wakeeld.
During the year our region the global economic slowdown Wakeeld laboratory also took on some continued to adversely impact our business work from our Bridgend facility, where some and several large projects were postponed testing was temporarily suspended following due to delays in nancing.
During the last a DWI audit.
The facility at Bridgend is fully quarter the region was also impacted by operational, and with new accreditation social and political unrest.
Operating Services Operating Services Continuous improvement Forced to nd cost efficiencies, municipal adds 2.1 million through Operational efficiency utilities will sometimes look to public private hub and spoke In a more challenging market environment partnerships.
They need to make real our focus is on being more efficient.
Our We operate on a hub and savings from any outsourcing strategy, Products division has been moving our spoke approach, looking for so our focus is on cost efficiency and production to lower cost regions closer to continually improving our processes.
In the new business in the areas our markets, rather than shipping them from US we increased our market position and surrounding existing the UK and US.
This year we exceeded our contracts.
This proved were one of just two companies to report target and made supply chain savings of particularly successful in year on year revenue growth.
2.4 million on the previous year.
Oklahoma where we To support new business we have continued expanded our presence One of the ways we deal with price to selectively add people to our business in the area by signing three pressures in our Operating Services development, new project proposals and new multi year Operating business is by offering energy management technical support service teams.
We expect Services contracts during plans to our US customers.
At no extra cost to accelerate the investment in these same the year, bringing in over we review their energy use.
This enables departments in the coming year to take 2.1million revenue annually.
our customers to alter their processes and advantage of the medium term growth operating procedures and improve potential in the US market.
efficiency, benefiting both our customers We also developed our presence in Ireland and Severn Trent Services.
this year an operate and maintain project in Limerick has been running for almost a year, and we have won and started work on a new contract for a waste water treatment plant in Letterkenny.
In the rest of Europe, nancing delayed some larger design-build-operate projects in the UK and Italy, which negatively impacted performance in the second half, although we continue to develop the project pipeline in both countries.
336.1m 0.4m turnover in 2010 11 down on 2009 10 25.7m down 10.5% profit before interest, tax and exceptional items Business review 18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Severn Trent Services Performance continued Environment significant reductions in energy usage.
In As part of a global water company we Italy we completed a green energy plant to understand the need to nd innovative ways generate electricity from biogas, produced to reduce our impact on the environment by sewage sludge.
We use the energy to and in turn, those of our clients and run the treatment plant and sell any excess customers.
We achieve this through careful to the national energy grid.
management of our resources and waste People, health and safety water discharges, the way we operate our To meet the aims of our growth strategy, treatment sites and development of we need to recruit and develop a talented technologies.
For the third consecutive year, and motivated workforce and provide them we completed Site Energy Management with a safe and rewarding place to work.
Plans SEMPs for five major plants in our We were therefore delighted that in our US Operating Services business.
Our employee engagement survey, Severn SEMPs evaluate several operating Case study Trent Services outperformed many other conditions to determine the most energy Assisting in the effort to industry and country benchmarks.
Several of our provide safe drinking water of the independently run survey show that businesses are certied under ISO to the residents of Haiti the majority of our employees are proud to 14001:2004, the international standard work for us, and 90% feel we meet the As part of a humanitarian for environmental management systems, needs of our customers.
campaign to enable ordinary which we use to manage and minimise citizens to treat their drinking our impacts.
Given our strategy to embed health and water at the point of safety in all areas of our business we were Many of our products and services help consumption, we donated particularly pleased that 95% of our our customers improve their environmental 11 portable electrolytic water employees take personal responsibility for performance and operate more efficiently.
disinfection systems to working safely and 90% are aware of their In the first year of our public private agencies working in Haiti.
responsibility to protect the environment.
partnership to operate sewerage and waste The units, which convert In January we set up a multi level task water treatment plants for the City of saltwater and energy into team to suggest ways we could continue Clinton, Oklahoma, we saved the city liquid sodium hypochlorite, to improve our health and safety approximately 100,000 in operating are being used to disinfect performance, incorporating their expenses, improved compliance, got the drinking water.
recommendations into our health and plants operating more efficiently and made safety plans for 2011 12.
Ten portable Sanilec systems and one ClorTec unit were donated to three Our organisation serves more than 38,000 humanitarian agencies working in Haiti: Operation families in Haiti through our household Blessing International, Deep Springs International DSI water treatment programmes.
Severn Trent and St. Damien Hospital.
DSI seeks to alleviate Services donation of water disinfection poverty, illness and unemployment through an equipment will improve our capacity to integrated and sustainable safe water programme.
serve each of these families in an ongoing, Operation Blessing International provides sustainable way.
strategic disaster relief, Michael Ritter medical aid, hunger relief, Co Founder and CEO of Deep Springs International clean water and community development around the world, and St. Damien Hospital is a free paediatric hospital in Haiti.
90% The equipment allowed DSI to quickly set up bulk of employees feel we meet the needs distribution of sodium of our customers hypochlorite solution in response to the cholera outbreak.
In addition to the equipment, we provided technical support to optimise production.
This support allowed DSI to treat over 86 million litres of water.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 In the UK, Operating Services won two Outlook Gold awards from the Royal Society for the The second half of the year saw significant Prevention of Accidents RoSPA.
impacts from project delays in Europe, unrest in the Middle East and the impact Sustainability and growth from the Gulf of Mexico drilling moratorium.
As a global leader in advanced water and Although some countries in the Middle waste water technology, it is vital we East are now moving forward and the develop a strong pipeline of new moratorium has lifted, shipments are only technologies that meet a specic need in slowly returning to normal.
It is equally important that our continue to be an issue in the coming year.
product portfolio meets and anticipates future regulatory standards.
To that end we The opportunity for sustained future growth have been centralising product development in Severn Trent Services remains.
Around across Severn Trent Services, ensuring 60 ATOs in Italy are expected to move from Case study that we focus our efforts on developing the the public to private sector in the medium Tapping into a new right products in the right areas around the term and the market for municipality market opportunity world.
Our recent developments include outsourcing in the US is expected to double two groundbreaking new products: to c. $3 billion.
In the Products arena International Maritime MicroDynamics and BALPURE offer Organisation IMO BALPURE is a ballast water treatment attractive medium and longer term growth.
regulations will soon require system that received approval from As a result, in 2011 12 we will be investing the treatment of ballast water the Marine Environment Protection around 5 million in total, in our business before it is brought into ports Committee MEPC in October see case development resources in the USA and worldwide.
Italy, and building our market and developed the patented MicroDynamics microwave ultraviolet technology resources to support the launch BALPURE system for the technology uses microwave technology in of our BALPURE and MicroDynamics treatment of ballast water.
the disinfection of waste water.
Our base business of The result is highly desirable only company selling this kind of patented Operating Services and Water Purication technology that puts us at the microwave technology, which is more is expected to deliver increased top line forefront of ballast treatment efficient and leads to longer bulb life.
growth year on year in 2011 12, despite solutions for larger vessels in current difficult market conditions, although an addressable market that is We plan to continue to invest in the the first six months may still be challenging.
expected to be worth around development of new products, to meet At the PBIT level, growth in the base 7 billion up to 2020 and changing market demands and improve business is expected to be offset by the around 450 million annually performance.
investment in new opportunities, leaving beyond that.
Severn Trent Services PBIT in 2011 12 lower year on year.
Investment in these With a three year growth areas will, in the medium term, enable Severn Trent Services to deliver lamp life guarantee, higher levels of sustainable growth.
the MicroDynamics Legislation in Italy will drive system offered the market activity for private lowest overall partners investing in the operational costs countrys integrated water services ATO segment.
We and maintenance believe that our strong market requirements of any presence gives us a great UV technology we foundation to work from and expect to see an increase in our evaluated.
business here over the next Jim Newton, several years.
Environmental Programme Manager, Regional Waste Water Treatment Plant, Kent County, Delaware Business review
