124 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Information for shareholders Severn Trent shareholder helpline Electronic communications and our website The companys registrar is Equiniti Limited.
Equinitis main Under the Articles of Association, the company is authorised to responsibilities include maintaining the shareholder register communicate with shareholders either via the Severn Trent Plc and making dividend payments.
The company last wrote to shareholders in April 2008 asking that they choose to either: If you have any queries on the following matters you should contact Equiniti: provide an email address to receive notifications when shareholder documentation is made available on the website: or transfer of shares: continue to receive shareholder documentation in hard copy by change of name or address: returning the personalised reply card.
lost share certificate: lost or out of date dividend cheques and other If the completed card was not returned then, in accordance with dividend queries: the Companies Act 2006, shareholders were deemed to have death of the registered holder of shares: or agreed to receive shareholder documentation via the website.
any other query relating to your Severn Trent shareholding.
These shareholders, and those who have positively elected for website communication, will receive, immediately prior to the Registrar contact details: publication date, notification whenever shareholder documents Telephone: 0871 384 2967 are available to view on the website at www.
com Overseas enquiries: 44 121 415 7044 Shareholders may receive electronic communications either: Text phone: 0871 384 2255 By post: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West via email this option is available though Shareview.
Sussex, BN99 6DA Shareholders will receive an email notification when a new Email: severntrent@equiniti.
com document is made available: or via our website shareholders will receive a notification by Dividend payments directly into bank accounts post when a new document is made available.
Dividends can be paid automatically into your bank or building society account.
This service has a number of benefits: The electronic arrangements enable shareholders to access information immediately as it becomes available.
By using no risk of the dividend cheque being lost in the post: electronic communications the company is also able to both the dividend payment is cleared more quickly as the cash is reduce its impact on the environment from reducing the use of paid directly into the account on the payment date without the paper and the energy required for publication and distribution, need to pay in the cheque and wait for it to clear: and and benefit from savings associated with reduced printing and since the 2009 10 financial year, a single consolidated tax mailing costs.
voucher is issued annually in February in time for your self assessment tax return.
Shareholders who register to receive shareholder documentation from Severn Trent Plc electronically can: To take advantage of this service or for further details contact Equiniti or visit www.
co. uk view the Annual Report and Accounts on the day it is published: Dividend reinvestment plan receive an email alert when shareholder documents A dividend reinvestment plan was introduced in July 2009. are available: The plan gives shareholders the option of using their dividend cast their AGM vote electronically: and payments to buy more Severn Trent Plc shares instead of manage their shareholding quickly and securely online, receiving cash.
If you would like to participate in the plan, please through Shareview.
request a dividend reinvestment plan mandate from Equiniti Shareholders who receive such a notification are entitled to Financial Services Limited.
request a hard copy of the document and may also change the Telephone: 0871 384 2268 way they receive communications, at any time, by contacting Equiniti.
co. uk for more information and to Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
register for electronic shareholder communications.
Telephone number from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7058 We will periodically consult with shareholders to check how they Overseas dividend payments wish to receive information from us and a shareholder is taken to Shareholders in over 30 countries have the opportunity to have agreed to website communications if a response has not receive Severn Trent dividends in their local currency.
small administration fee, shareholders can have their dividends Notwithstanding any election, the company may, at its sole and automatically converted from sterling and paid into their bank absolute discretion, send any notification or information to account, normally within five working days of the dividend shareholders in hard copy form.
Please call 44 121 415 7044 for further details.
Corporate website Amalgamating different share accounts Our website provides company news and information, together Shareholders with more than one account, arising from with links to our operational businesses websites.
The Investor inconsistencies in name or address details, may avoid receipt Centre on the website contains up to date information for of duplicate mailings by asking the registrar to amalgamate shareholders including: their holdings.
comprehensive share price information: Calls to these numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
financial results: Other providers costs may vary.
a history of dividend payment dates and amounts: and access to current and historical shareholder documents such as the Annual Report and Accounts.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 125 Lost investors completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing During 2009 10 we appointed ProSearch to look for investors regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml who had failed to keep their details up to date.
We have unclaimed Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited funds waiting to be claimed.
Shareholders are reminded that if advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free they move house they need to contact Equiniti and advise them company reports.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the of their new address.
company endorses will be included in company mailings or on Buying and selling shares in the UK our website.
For more detailed information from the FSA go to If you wish to buy or sell certificated Severn Trent shares, you will www.
uk need to use a stockbroker or high street bank which trades on the Shareholder fraud tips on protecting your shareholding London Stock Exchange.
There are also many telephone and To reduce the risk of fraud happening to you please consider the online services available to you.
If you are selling, you will need to following: present your share certificate at the time of sale.
Details of low cost dealing services may be obtained from www.
co. uk ensure all your share certificates and dividend tax vouchers or 0845 603 7037. are kept in a safe place, or consider holding your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee: Share price information keep all correspondence from the registrar in a safe place.
Shareholders can find share price information on our website Destroy all correspondence showing your personal details and in most national newspapers.
Ceefax, where available, also e. g. shareholder reference number by shredding: displays share prices that are updated regularly throughout the if you change your address inform the registrar.
If you receive trading day.
For a real-time buying or selling price, you should a letter from the registrar regarding a change of address and contact a stockbroker.
have not recently moved house, please contact them Gifting your shares immediately.
You may be a victim of identity theft: and To transfer your shares to another member of your family as a gift, know when dividends are paid.
Consider having your dividend please request a gift transfer form from Equiniti.
The completed paid directly into your bank or building society account, reducing transfer form together with the relevant share certificate s should the risk of cheques being intercepted or lost in the post.
If you be returned to Equiniti to record the change in ownership.
change your bank or building society account, inform the registrar of the details of your new account immediately.
If you have a small number of shares and would like to donate Respond to any letters the registrar sends you about this.
them to charity, please ask Equiniti for a ShareGift charity donation scheme transfer form.
If you have any reason to believe that you may have been the 1052686 is an independent charity which provides a free service target of a fraud, or attempted fraud, please contact the registrar for shareholders wishing to dispose charitably of small numbers immediately.
of shares, which would cost more to sell than they are worth.
Unsolicited mail Further information is also available on the ShareGift website at The company is legally obliged to make its share register www.
org or by telephoning 020 7337 0501. available to the general public.
Consequently some shareholders Shareholder security may receive unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the amount of Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have unsolicited mail you receive please contact: received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning The Mailing Preference Service MPS, investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based Freepost 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK Alternatively, register online at www.
uk or call the investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler MPS Registration line on 0845 703 4599. rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely Share capital history persuasive and the number of instances of this type of fraud has Information on the companys share capital history, including the increased dramatically in recent years.
A 2006 survey by the share capital reorganisation in August 1997 and the demerger of Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average Biffa Plc, return of capital by payment of a special dividend and amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice share consolidation in October 2006, is available from the investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had Investor Centre pages on our website.
been successfully investing for several years.
In addition, in the current economic climate, boiler rooms are now targeting victims who have redundancy money or those who are not experienced investors, and are asking for smaller sums of money to be invested.
Designed and produced by Salterbaxter If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: ensure you get the full name of the person and organisation: check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0300 500 5000 or visiting www.
uk: and This report was printed by Pureprint Group using their pureprint and alcofree if the calls persist, hang up.
All the electricity used in the production of this report was generated from renewable sources and vegetable based inks were used Please be aware that if you deal with an unauthorised firm, you throughout.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company and registered to the will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
It is printed on Cocoon 100 Uncoated, a recycled paper containing Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by 100% post consumer waste which is manufactured to ISO 14001 standard.
Other information Severn Trent Plc Registered office: Severn Trent Centre 2 St Johns Street Coventry CV1 2LZ Tel: 02477 715000 www.
