56 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Risk and assurance Risk management process Cascading Company Performance objectives risk map reporting and monitoring Board & lter Committees Business Unit STEC risk maps Businesses & cut off Functions lter Departments, Teams & Individuals Specic risk assessments, e. g. safety asset project fraud process Enterprise Risk Management Our established Enterprise Risk Management ERM process as During the year we have also held a risk workshop with the board illustrated above is used for the identication and assessment of which looked at their views on the most significant risks facing the risks to significant business objectives.
This includes consideration organisation in order to give greater visibility of their view on risk.
The key focus of these discussions was around the interof the effectiveness of existing controls and identication, prioritisation and tracking of actions needed to reduce the risk and relationships between risks, and the board recognised that whilst or improve controls.
Our assessment also considers both financial some risks may not be catastrophic on their own, an aggregation of and reputational impact of risks in order to give a holistic view.
smaller risks occurring simultaneously or in close succession could become very significant.
During the year we have continued to work to fully embed the process across the business, including rolling out the process to In response to the discussions at the board we are now conducting Severn Trent Services.
We have continued to keep the process a series of workshops aimed at challenging the robustness of fresh through the introduction of new tools and challenges and are controls in order to help us withstand even the most catastrophic working to better integrate with the processes used by business scenario.
These workshops will consider the inter-relationships teams to monitor their performance.
between risks to enable us to obtain maximum value from the risk information held.
The key business risks are formally reported to the Severn Trent Executive Committee and Audit Committee every six months and Over the coming year we will continue to work to maintain and to the board annually.
Reviews of risk generally take place within improve our ERM process with a particular emphasis on closer the business on a quarterly basis to monitor that our key risks are integration with the business planning process.
This will include identied, that controls and mitigating actions continue to be clearer articulation of our willingness to accept risk as part of the effective and to confirm that focus is maintained on the most critical prioritisation of business activity.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 57 Principal Risks The following table illustrates the principal risks facing our business.
However, as part of our regular reporting, other risks have also been considered and discussed by the Severn Trent Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Executive Committees and the board during the year.
Examples of how we are managing our risks can also be found in the table.
Principal risk and business impact Examples of controls, procedures and future plans Strategic We continue to manage the risks associated with the delivery With regard to Severn Trent Water: of the strategic objectives of Severn Trent Water including our We have a strategy to be the leading water and waste water ability to inuence the regulatory framework towards creating company in the UK that is supported by a robust approach to a sustainable Water Industry in England and Wales and our legal and regulatory compliance.
ability to continue to develop a sustainable water company.
We have an appropriate organisational design to support the Additionally, in the current and ongoing challenging economic achievement of the strategy.
climate, we continue to address risks which may affect the We engage with key regulatory and government stakeholders to strategic objective to grow Severn Trent Services such as the understand and inuence the direction of future regulatory and political situations in some of our markets and the threat of public policy development within the Water Industry.
With regard to Severn Trent Services: We have a clearly articulated strategy in place for products and markets to be targeted.
See pages 16 and 19 for details.
We are implementing a plan to deliver the anticipated growth.
We have business partners in place to provide local support in target markets.
Stakeholder We continue to manage the risks associated with meeting We promote and protect the reputation of Severn Trent Water the needs and expectations of key stakeholders investors, through effective internal and external communications and regulators, customers, staff and suppliers in order to protect robust crisis management plans that include a clear and enhance our financial position, brand, reputation and communications plan and responsibilities.
We maintain performance across a range of corporate responsibility issues to increase confidence of our key stakeholders and to enhance and protect our reputation.
We maintain close relationships with our regulators and other stakeholders.
We continue to build on Changing Course and demonstrate thought leadership within the industry.
We continue to work with our staff to ensure our people have the right skills.
We monitor closely the performance of our One Supply Chain contractors involved on the AMP5 programme.
Governance 58 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Risk and assurance continued Principal risk and business impact Examples of controls, procedures and future plans Operational and asset related We continue to manage the risks associated with our daily We have asset management plans in place for key assets and operations, including the failure of assets, processes or systems investment governance boards to prioritise capital investment.
which in turn may affect our ability to serve our customers, could We have initiated an Always On improvement programme to impact on health and safety or security at our sites and on our improve controls in relation to investment, training, and the ability to meet regulatory targets.
processes and equipment to maintain our distribution network.
We conduct contingency planning and what if analyses to ensure our assets, systems and processes are robust to withstand significant disruption events.
We have safety improvement programmes in place at all sites driven by local employee groups to continuously improve performance.
We run awareness campaigns to ensure security issues are appropriately considered.
We have developed a close working relationship with government departments and emergency forces to maintain appropriate levels of security required at all critical sites.
Financial We continue to manage the risks associated with our financial We have regular detailed counterparty and investment reporting activities including our ability to effectively manage counterparty processes and monitoring.
risk, attract funding at commercially attractive rates, fund Through planning and monitoring we ensure the group has pensions promises sustainably and meet the challenging stretch access to funds to meet its ongoing business needs.
targets we have set ourselves within our Severn Trent Water and We have an effective Pension Trustee structure, investment Severn Trent Services businesses.
policy and investment performance monitoring process in place in addition to regular board reviews of pension affordability.
We ensure external audits are conducted of processes and departments.
We establish business plans and budgets and continually monitor the financial performance of our businesses against those targets.
Legal, regulatory and compliance We continue to manage the risks associated with potential We have established a compliance management framework, non-compliance with the numerous and increasingly demanding as part of the corporate governance framework for the group, obligations reecting the international spread of our operations.
Management of these is often dispersed throughout the We plan to undertake a legal risk review of our Severn Trent organisation.
We pay particular attention to risks in areas Services business.
subjected to changing legal and regulatory requirements.
We are currently in the process of updating our existing Anti Current areas of focus include: Bribery and Anti Fraud Policy and supporting standards to The UK Bribery Act.
reect the Bribery Act 2010 guidance.
The taking on of private sewers and lateral drains PDAS.
We have a change programme in place to effectively manage the transfer of private sewers and lateral drains.
See page 11 The introduction of Service Incentive Mechanism SIM for details.
