20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Looking forward Since privatisation our industry The debate over has experienced two decades of improvement.
But the world the next 20 years today is a very different place will be about and if we are to meet our vision security of supply.
of creating a sustainable water Michael McKeon, industry, we need some Finance Director changes.
We are playing an active role in shaping the future Climate change Trent will face a shortfall of 232 million of the water industry in the UK.
Whether its the energy we use, the water litres a day because of climate change we supply to our customers, or the quality and population growth if we do not do Severn Trent continues to address the of the diverse environment under our things differently.
medium and longer term challenges facing stewardship, our business both contributes the industry and published its views in its But this is not just a problem for Severn to, and is affected by, climate change.
This Trent: it is one for the nation as a whole.
the question of water scarcity, our strategy is document is available for shareholders to One change we would like to see is more to reduce demand and improve the exibility read and copies may be obtained from the water trading.
Water companies could trade of our network before developing new Company Secretary or electronically at resources nationally using water from areas sources.
For instance, by encouraging our www.
Some of the of lower cost to higher cost.
With the right customers to use water sensibly we have key highlights from that document are regulatory regime we believe it would be one of the lowest per capita consumptions presented below.
possible to use existing networks to move of water in the UK.
water from one region to another.
Over the past 20 years our industry has However valuable these measures, they are seen improved customer standards, Intelligent funding not enough on their own.
Water companies environmental performance and service There is no doubt that over the next 20 need to think differently in order to tackle quality, and become more efficient.
Water years, the water industry will need to climate change and arrive at more companies have also successfully funded maintain significant investment in sustainable solutions.
an investment programme valued at around infrastructure in order to improve network 85 billion.
However, these improvements Water trading resilience and reach higher environmental have come at a cost.
Changing weather patterns are predicted standards.
to lead to hotter, drier summers and wetter Customer bills have risen, energy use Initiatives like water trading and more exible winters.
This will mean less water being has increased by 113% and the industry outcome-based regulation will help avoid available at different times of the year.
Our as a whole is managing debts of some unnecessary capital investment, but the last Water Resources Management Plan 33 billion.
On top of that, the reality of sectors continuing ability to deliver its showed that, over the next 25 years, Severn climate change is already having an impact investment programmes relies on its being on our business.
To carry on in the same able to fund them.
We believe that way would not be sustainable.
That is why continuing to finance the programme we published our document Changing entirely from borrowing is unsustainable, Were beyond the Course in 2010, setting out our position and putting pressure on credit ratings and outlining the six key changes we believe are point of whether you passing on risk to customers.
Equity needed to address the challenges we face.
participation remains as important as ever.
believe in climate Long term sustainable returns need to Later this year the UK government is due to reect this reality.
While we do not change or not.
know what recommendations it will contain, we are pleased with the response to The reality is we Changing Course and encouraged by the development of the debate over water are experiencing trading and policy making.
more extremes and we have to nd ways to cope.
Tony Wray, Chief Executive Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 A digital version of the Changing Course report is available at www.
co. uk Changing course six key we are looking at how we can better changes required to meet future challenges reveal the true value of water to enable the Policy changes sectors to make better, more sustainable More exible implementation of EU decisions.
For example, we are exploring Directives to ensure a better trade off between how abstraction and water trading can costs and carbon emissions contribute to this.
Developing competition Regina Finn, Chief Executive, Ofwat through water trading: Ofwat Annual Report 2009 10 this would also optimise resources nationally rather than just regionally Competition and consolidation Bringing about the kind of changes we Regulatory changes The companies will believe our industry needs would require a A more exible approach change in the structure and regulation of the need to plan, to environmental consents water sector.
The framework of incentives to allow for more cost and output setting under the existing regime innovate and deliver effective approaches can mean that more sustainable solutions An improved price setting are overlooked in favour of capital intensive services in new and process to provide the right solutions.
Faced with the choice of sourcing incentives for sustainable more sustainable low-cost water elsewhere or building a nancing, more reservoir, companies often opt to build a sustainable solutions and ways.
This then becomes part of the increased innovation regulated asset base, allowing water means the regulatory companies to increase pricing.
Industry changes Companies must take the We believe it would be better to encourage environment we lead in driving innovation, sustainable solutions that benefit customers both in terms of the and the environment.
A gradual move provide needs to strategic and technical towards a market-based framework and solutions they pursue and competition within the sector would enable change as well.
in shaping the wider water companies to make best use of Phillip Fletcher, Chairman, Ofwat direction the sector takes resources nationally rather than regionally.
Ofwat Annual Report 2009 10 Such a move would help maintain investors Changes to the institutional confidence in our industry and avoid an framework increase in the cost of capital.
Government should prioritise national policy As a water company we are unusual in that outcomes and ensure the we are already able to supply water to large regulatory framework is commercial and industrial companies set up to deliver them across England and Wales through Severn Trent Services.
Our expertise in commercial markets, together with our confidence about embracing the future and our operational, financial and strategic strength mean we are well placed to adapt to any structural or regulatory changes in our industry.
Indeed, we are looking forward to the opportunities the future will bring, both in the regulated and commercial spheres.
