Information Corporate Advisers Auditors Financial Advisers Financial Public Relations Advisers  LLP Greenhill & Co International LLP College Hill Principal Bankers Solicitors Corporate Brokers Barclays Bank plc Ashurst LLP RBS Hoare Govett Limited Fortis Bank s. a. Dickson Minto W. S. Investec HSBC Bank plc ING bank n. v. Rabobank International The Royal Bank of Scotland plc A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & A t & Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 11 1 Shanks Group plc 143 Information Financial Governance Performance Strategy Overview Printed by P&A, an FSC certified, environmentally friendly print company.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil-based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on 9Lives 80 Silk, an FSC approved paper sourced from sustainable forests.
9lives 80 is produced with 80% recovered fibre comprising 10% packaging waste, 10% best white waste, 60% fide-inked waste fibre and 20% virgin TCF fibre sourced from sustainable forests.
When you have finished with The outer cover is sealed with a matt laminate made of biodegradable polymers that this report please recycle it break down the film via the action of bio-organisms present in nature.
This film offers exceptional environmental characteristics and improved processability far superior to traditional PLA film and existing acetates.
144 Shanks Group plc A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & A t & Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 11 1 Contents Information Glossary Shanks is one of Europes leading waste management businesses.
We are an international group with local experience and a practical approach to transforming waste.
A&B Argyll and Bute AD Anaerobic Digestion AGM Annual General Meeting Benelux The economic union of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg 01 02 03 BMW Biodegradeable Municipal Waste C&D Construction & Demolition CGU Cash Generating Unit Combined Heat and Power CHP D&G Dumfries and Galloway EBITDA Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation ELWA East London Waste Authority EPS Earnings Per Share EURIBOR Euro Interbank Offer Rate FPP Full Potential Plan Free cash flow Cash flow before dividends, growth capex, PFI funding, acquisitions, disposals, exceptional items and discontinued operations Free cash flow conversion Underlying free cash flow divided by trading profit Gross Domestic Product GDP I&C Industrial & Commercial IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards KPI Key Performance Indicator LIBOR London Interbank Offer Rate LTA Lost Time Accident LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan MBT Mechanical Biological Treatment MRF Material Recycling Facility Profit Before Tax PBT PFI Private Finance Initiative Overview Strategy Performance PPP Public Private Partnership P2 P10 P46 R&D Research & Development RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurences Regulations SHE Safety, Health and Environmental 4 Shanks at a glance 12 Chief Executives statement Operating, business and SRF Solid Recovered Fuel financial reviews 6 2011 Highlights 16 The market in which we SRSOS Savings-Related Share Option Scheme operate 48 Group Trading profit Operating profit before the amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional items 8 Chairmans statement and discontinued operations 24 How we exploit this 56 Netherlands TSR Total Shareholder Return market opportunity 60 Belgium UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 40 Delivering the strategy WACC Weighted Average Cost of Capital the business model 64 UK 42 Performance & monitoring 68 Canada Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Disclaimer This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Shanks Group.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which as a result could cause Shanks Groups actual future financial condition, performance and results to differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set out in the forward-looking statements.
Such statements are made only as at the date of this document and, except to the extent legally required, Shanks Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update such forward-looking statements.
Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 2011 making more from waste Shanks Group plc, Dunedin House, Auckland Park, Mount Farm, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK1 1BU UK Tel: 00 44 0 1908 650580 Fax: 00 44 0 1908 650651 website: www.
co. uk Making more from waste Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
