8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 82 82 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 1 DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added and similar taxes, and trade discounts.
No revenue is recognized Shire plc and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either Shire for consideration, the value or receipt of which is dependent or the Company is a leading specialty biopharmaceutical company on future events or future performance.
that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
The Companys principal revenue streams and their respective The Company has grown through acquisition, completing a series accounting treatments are discussed below: of major mergers or acquisitions that have brought therapeutic, geographic and pipeline growth and diversification.
The Company will Product sales continue to evaluate companies, products and pipeline opportunities Revenue for the sale of products is recognized upon shipment to that offer a good strategic fit and enhance shareholder value.
customers or at the time of delivery to the customer depending on the terms of sale.
Provisions for rebates, product returns and discounts Shires strategic goal is to become the worlds leading specialty to customers are provided for as reductions to revenue in the same biopharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs of the period as the related sales are recorded.
The Company monitors and specialist physician.
Shire focuses its business on attention deficit and tracks the amount of sales deductions based on historical experience hyperactivity disorder ADHD, gastrointestinal GI diseases, human to estimate the reduction to revenues.
genetic therapies HGT and regenerative medicine RM as well as opportunities in other therapeutic areas to the extent they arise through Royalty income acquisitions.
Shires in-licensing and acquisition efforts are focused Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when on products in specialist markets with strong intellectual property the licensee sells the underlying product, with the amount of royalty protection and global rights.
Shire believes that a carefully selected income recorded based on sales information received from the relevant and balanced portfolio of products with strategically aligned and licensee.
The Company estimates sales amounts and related royalty relatively small-scale sales forces will deliver strong results.
income based on the historical product information for any period that the sales information is not available from the relevant licensee.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Licensing revenues Other revenue includes revenues derived from product out-licensing a Basis of preparation arrangements, which typically consist of an initial upfront payment The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the on inception of the license and subsequent milestone payments accounts of Shire plc, all of its subsidiary undertakings and the Income contingent on the achievement of certain clinical and sales milestones.
Access Share trust, after elimination of inter company accounts and Product out-licensing arrangements often require the Company to transactions.
Non controlling interests in the equity and earnings or provide multiple deliverables to the licensee.
losses of a consolidated subsidiary are reflected in non controlling interest in subsidiaries in the Companys consolidated balance sheet Initial license fees received in connection with product out-licensing and consolidated statements of income.
Non controlling interest agreements entered into prior to January 1, 2011 are deferred and adjusts the Companys consolidated results of operations to present recognized over the period in which the Company has continuing the net income or loss attributable to the Company exclusive of the substantive performance obligations, typically the period over which earnings or losses attributable to the non controlling interest.
the Company participates in the development of the out-licensed product, even where such fees are non-refundable and not creditable b Use of estimates in consolidated financial statements against future royalty payments.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the US US GAAP For product out-licensing arrangements entered into, or subject to and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC regulations, requires material modification, after January 1, 2011, consideration received is management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the allocated between each of the separable elements in the arrangement reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent using the relative selling price method.
An element is considered assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements separable if it has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis.
The and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting selling price used for each separable element will be based on vendor period.
Estimates and assumptions are primarily made in relation to specific objective evidence VSOE if available, third party evidence the valuation of intangible assets, the valuation of equity investments, if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price if neither VSOE sales deductions, income taxes including provisions for uncertain nor third party evidence is available.
Revenue is then recognized tax positions and the realization of deferred tax assets, provisions as each of the separable elements to which the revenue has been for litigation and legal proceedings, and contingent consideration allocated is delivered.
If actual results differ from the Companys estimates, or to the extent these estimates are adjusted Milestone payments which are non-refundable, non-creditable and in future periods, the Companys results of operations could either contingent on achieving certain clinical milestones are recognized benefit from, or be adversely affected by, any such change in estimate.
as revenues either on achievement of such milestones if the milestones are considered substantive or over the period the Company has c Revenue recognition continuing substantive performance obligations, if the milestones The Company recognizes revenue when: are not considered substantive.
If milestone payments are creditable against future royalty payments, the milestones are deferred there is persuasive evidence of an agreement or arrangement: and released over the period in which the royalties are anticipated delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered: to be paid.
the sellers price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: and collectability is reasonably assured.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 83 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 83 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES f Cost of product sales continued Cost of product sales includes the cost of purchasing finished product for sale, the cost of raw materials and manufacturing for d Sales deductions those products that are manufactured by the Company, shipping and handling costs, depreciation and amortization of intangible assets i Rebates in respect of favorable manufacturing contracts.
Royalties payable Rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid on products to which the Company does not own the rights are also agencies and contractual rebates with health-maintenance included in Cost of product sales.
These rebates are based on price differentials between a base price and the selling price.
As a result, rebates generally g Leased assets increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product The costs of operating leases are charged to operations on a straightas prices increase.
Provisions for rebates are recorded as reductions line basis over the lease term, even if rental payments are not made to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded, on such a basis.
with the amount of the rebate based on the Companys best estimate if any uncertainty exists over the unit rebate amount, and Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the consolidated with estimates of future utilization derived from historical trends.
balance sheet as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease or their useful lives.
The capital ii Returns element of future lease payments is recorded as a liability, while the The Company estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that interest element is charged to operations over the period of the lease will result in a return, based on historical trends and when applicable, to produce a level yield on the balance of the capital lease obligation.
specific factors affecting certain products at the balance sheet date.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period h Advertising expense as the related sales are recorded.
The Company expenses the cost of advertising as incurred.
Advertising costs amounted to $122.5 million, $93.3 million and $81.3 million for iii Coupons the years to December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively and were The Company uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
An accrual included within Selling, general and administrative SG&A expenses.
is established based on the Companys expectation of the level of coupon redemption, estimated using historical trends.
The accrual is i Research and development R&D expense recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related R&D costs are expensed as incurred.
Upfront and milestone payments sales are recorded or the date the coupon is offered, if later than the made to third parties for in-licensed products that have not yet received date the related sales are recorded.
marketing approval and for which no alternative future use has been identified are also expensed as incurred.
iv Discounts The Company offers cash discounts to customers for the early payment Milestone payments made to third parties on and subsequent to of receivables which are recorded as reductions to revenue and regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets, and amortized accounts receivable in the same period as the related sale is recorded.
over the remaining useful life of the related product.
v Wholesaler charge-backs j Valuation and impairment of long-lived assets other than The Company has contractual agreements whereby it supplies goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and investments certain products to third parties at predetermined prices.
Wholesalers The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets other acting as intermediaries in these transactions are reimbursed by the than goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and investments for Company if the predetermined prices are less than the prices paid by impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the wholesaler to the Company.
Accruals for wholesaler charge-backs, that the carrying amounts of the relevant assets may not be which are based on historical trends, are recorded as reductions recoverable.
When such a determination is made, managements to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
estimate of undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the use and ultimate disposition of these assets is compared to the carrying value e Collaborative arrangements of the assets to determine whether the carrying value is recoverable.
The Company enters into collaborative arrangements to develop and If the carrying value is deemed not to be recoverable, the amount of commercialize drug candidates.
These collaborative arrangements the impairment recognized in the consolidated financial statements often require up front, milestone, royalty or profit share payments, is determined by estimating the fair value of the relevant assets and or a combination of these, with payments often contingent upon the recording an impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying success of the related development and commercialization efforts.
value exceeds the estimated fair value.
This fair value is usually Collaboration agreements entered into by the Company may also determined based on estimated discounted cash flows.
include expense reimbursements or other such payments to the collaborating partner.
k Finance costs of debt Finance costs relating to debt issued are recorded as a deferred The Company reports costs incurred and revenue generated charge and amortized to the consolidated statements of income from transactions with third parties as well as payments between over the period to the earliest redemption date of the debt, using the parties to collaborative arrangements either on a gross or net basis, effective interest rate method.
On extinguishment of the related depending on the characteristics of the collaborative relationship.
debt, any unamortized deferred financing costs are written off and charged to interest expense in the consolidated statements of income.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 84 84 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES n Earnings per share continued Basic earnings per share is based upon net income attributable to Shire plc divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares l Foreign currency outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is based Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into upon net income attributable to Shire plc adjusted for the impact of the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary in which they arise interest expense on convertible debt on an if-converted basis when at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Transactions the effect is dilutive divided by the weighted average number of in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency Ordinary Share equivalents outstanding during the period, adjusted for at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Transaction the dilutive effect of all potential Ordinary Shares that were outstanding gains and losses, other than those related to current and deferred during the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares are excluded when the tax assets and liabilities, are recognized in arriving at income from effect would be to increase diluted earnings per share or reduce the continuing operations before income taxes, equity in earnings losses diluted loss per share.
of equity method investees and discontinued operations.
Transaction gains and losses arising on foreign currency, denominated current o Share-based compensation and deferred tax assets and liabilities are included within income taxes Share-based compensation represents the cost of share-based in the consolidated statements of income.
The Company measures share-based compensation cost for awards classified as equity at the grant date, The results of operations for subsidiaries, whose functional currency is based on the estimated fair value of the award.
Predominantly all of the not the US dollar, are translated into the US dollar at the average rates Companys awards have service and or performance conditions and of exchange during the period, with the subsidiaries balance sheets the fair values of these awards are estimated using a Black-Scholes translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
effect of exchange rate movements is included in a separate component of Other comprehensive income.
For share-based compensation awards which cliff vest, the Company recognizes the cost of the relevant share-based payment award Foreign currency exchange transaction losses gains included in as an expense on a straight-line basis net of estimated forfeitures consolidated net income in the years to December 31, 2011, 2010 over the employees requisite service period.
For those share-based and 2009 amounted to a loss of $2.1 million, a gain of $1.7 million compensation awards with a graded vesting schedule, the Company and a gain of $2.3 million, respectively.
recognizes the cost of the relevant share-based payment award as an expense on a straight-line basis net of estimated forfeitures over the m Income taxes requisite service period for the entire award that is, over the requisite Uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated financial service period for the last separately vesting portion of the award.
statements for positions which are considered more likely than not The share-based compensation expense is recorded in Cost of being sustained, based on the technical merits of the position of product sales, R&D, and SG&A in the consolidated statements on audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefit of income based on the employees respective functions.
recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon the largest amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgment, The Company records deferred tax assets for awards that result is greater than 50% likely of being realized based on a cumulative in deductions on the Companys income tax returns, based on probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
The Company the amount of compensation cost recognized and the Companys recognizes interest relating to unrecognized tax benefits and penalties statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a deduction.
Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for differences Companys income tax return are recorded in additional paid-in between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the capital if the tax deduction exceeds the deferred tax asset or consolidated financial statements and the tax bases of assets and in the consolidated statements of income if the deferred tax asset liabilities that will result in future taxable or deductible amounts.
exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in capital exists The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted from previous awards.
tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income.
The Companys share-based compensation plans are described more fully in Note 29.
Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that p Cash and cash equivalents some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Cash and cash equivalents are defined as short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.
q Financial  The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with third party transactions and inter company financing.
These instruments consist of swap and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Company does not apply hedge accounting for these instruments.
The fair values of these instruments are included on the balance sheet in current assets liabilities, with changes in the fair value recognized in the consolidated statements of income.
The cash flows relating to these instruments are presented within net cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows, unless the derivative instruments are economically hedging specific investing or financing activities.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 85 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 85 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES tax effect.
Realized gains and losses, and declines in value of available continued for sale securities judged to be other than temporary, are included in other income expense, net see Note 26.
The cost of securities sold is r Inventories based on the specific identification method.
Interest and dividends on Inventories are stated at the lower of cost including manufacturing securities classified as available for sale are included as interest income.
overheads, where appropriate or market.
Cost incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition is based on u Property, plant and equipment purchase costs calculated on a first-in, first-out basis, including Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost reduced for impairment transportation costs.
The cost of significant assets includes capitalized interest incurred during the construction period.
Inventories include costs relating to both marketed products and, for Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated certain products, cost incurred prior to regulatory approval.
Inventories to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over are capitalized prior to regulatory approval if the Company considers its estimated useful life as follows: that it is probable that the US Food and Drug Administration FDA Buildings 15 to 50 years or another regulatory body will grant commercial and manufacturing Office furniture, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years approval for the relevant product, and it is probable that the value Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing of capitalized inventories will be recovered through commercial sale.
equipment 3 to 15 years Inventories are written down for estimated obsolescence or The cost of land is not depreciated.
Assets under the course of unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost construction are not depreciated until the relevant assets are available of inventory and estimated market value based upon assumptions and ready for their intended use.
about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those anticipated, inventory Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to the adjustments may be required.
consolidated statements of income as incurred.
The costs of major renewals and improvements are capitalized.
At the time property, s Assets held-for-sale plant and equipment is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost An asset is classified as held-for-sale when, amongst other things, the and accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the asset and Company has committed to a plan of disposition, the asset is available accumulated depreciation accounts.
The profit or loss on such for immediate sale, and the plan is not expected to change significantly.
disposition is reflected in operating income.
Assets held-for-sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.
v Goodwill and other intangible assets Assets acquired in a business combination that will be sold rather than i Goodwill held and used are classified as held-for sale at the date of acquisition In business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, 2009, when it is probable that the Company will dispose of the assets within goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration one year.
Newly acquired assets held-for-sale are carried at their fair given and the fair value of any non controlling interest in the acquiree value less cost to sell at the acquisition date.
The Company does not over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
For record depreciation or amortization on assets classified as held-for-sale.
business combinations completed prior to January 1, 2009 goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over t Investments the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
The Company has certain investments in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is reviewed for impairment, at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate Investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For the purpose of if the investment gives the Company the ability to exercise significant assessing the carrying value of goodwill for impairment, goodwill has influence, but not control over, the investee.
Significant influence is been allocated to the Companys three reporting units, being SP, HGT generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in and RM.
Events or changes in circumstances which could trigger an the voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other impairment review include: significant underperformance of a reporting factors such as representation on the investees Board of Directors and unit relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: the nature of commercial arrangements, are considered in determining significant changes in the manner of the Companys use of acquired whether the equity method of accounting is appropriate.
Under the assets or the strategy for the overall business: and significant negative equity method of accounting, the Company records its investments industry trends.
in equity method investees in the consolidated balance sheet under Investments and its share of the investees earnings or losses together Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying value with other than temporary impairments in value under equity in of each reporting units net assets including allocated goodwill to the earnings losses of equity method investees in the consolidated fair value of the reporting unit.
If the reporting units carrying amount statements of income.
is greater than its fair value, a second step is performed whereby the portion of the reporting units fair value relating to goodwill is compared All other equity investments, which consist of investments for which to the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill.
The Company the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence, recognizes a goodwill impairment charge for the amount by which are accounted for under the cost method or at fair value.
Investments the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value.
in private companies are carried at cost, less provisions for other than The Company has determined that there are no impairment losses temporary impairment in value.
For public companies that have readily in respect of goodwill for any of the reporting periods covered determinable fair values, the Company classifies its equity investments by these consolidated financial statements.
as available for sale and, accordingly, records these investments at their fair values with unrealized holding gains and losses included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, net of any related 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 86 86 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES is not available, or estimated selling price if neither VSOE nor third party continued evidence is available.
It replaces the term fair value in the revenue allocation with selling price to clarify that the allocation of revenue is ii Other intangible assets based on entity specific assumptions rather than the assumptions of a Other intangible assets principally comprise intellectual property market place participant.
The guidance eliminates the residual method rights for products with a defined revenue stream, acquired product of allocation and requires that arrangement consideration be allocated technology and IPR&D.
Intellectual property rights for currently using the relative selling price method.
The guidance also significantly marketed products and acquired product technology are recorded at expands the disclosures related to a vendors multiple-deliverable cost and amortized over the estimated useful life of the related product, revenue arrangements.
The guidance has been adopted prospectively which ranges from 1 to 20 years weighted average 16.5 years.
IPR&D from January 1, 2011 for new arrangements, or existing arrangements acquired through a business combination which completed subsequent which have been materially modified subsequent to the date of to January 1, 2009 is capitalized as an indefinite lived intangible asset adoption.
The adoption of the guidance did not impact the Companys until the completion or abandonment of the associated R&D efforts.
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
IPR&D is reviewed for impairment using a one-step approach which compares the fair value of the IPR&D asset with its carrying amount.
Effect of denominating the exercise price of a share-based An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying value payment award in the currency of the market in which the exceeds the fair value of the IPR&D asset.
Once the R&D efforts are underlying equity security trades completed the useful life of the relevant assets will be determined, and On January 1, 2011 the Company adopted new guidance issued the IPR&D asset amortized over this useful economic life.
by the FASB on the effect of denominating the exercise price of a share-based payment award in the currency of the market in which The following factors are considered in estimating the useful lives the underlying equity security trades.
This guidance clarifies that an of Other intangible assets: employee share-based payment award with an exercise price denominated in the currency of a market in which a substantial portion expected use of the asset: of the entitys equity securities trades should not be considered to regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the regulatory contain a condition that is not a market, performance, or service approval and review process, patent issues and actions by condition.
Therefore, an entity would not classify such an award as a government agencies: liability if it otherwise qualifies as equity.
The Company has historically accounted for share-based payment awards in a manner consistent the effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing with the guidance, and therefore the adoption of this guidance did products and other economic factors, including the stability of the not impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results of market, known technological advances, development of competing operations or cash flows.
drugs that are more effective clinically or economically: actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies or others Milestone method of revenue recognition that may eliminate current competitive advantages: and On January 1, 2011 the Company adopted new guidance issued by the FASB on defining a milestone and determining when it may historical experience of renewing or extending similar arrangements.
be appropriate to apply the milestone method of revenue recognition for research or development transactions.
This guidance clarifies that: When a number of factors apply to an intangible asset, these factors i consideration that is contingent on achievement of a milestone are considered in combination when determining the appropriate in its entirety may be recognized as revenue in the period in which useful life for the relevant asset.
the milestone is achieved only if the milestone is judged to meet certain criteria to be considered substantive: ii milestones should w Non-monetary transactions be considered substantive in their entirety and may not be bifurcated: The Company enters into certain non-monetary transactions that iii an arrangement may contain both substantive and non-substantive involve either the granting of a license over the Companys patents milestones: and iv each milestone should be evaluated individually or the disposal of an asset or group of assets in exchange for a nonto determine if it is substantive.
The adoption of the guidance did monetary asset, usually equity.
The Company accounts for these not impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results transactions at fair value if the Company is able to determine the fair of operations or cash flows.
To the extent the Company concludes that it is unable to determine the fair value of a transaction that Fees paid to federal government by pharmaceutical transaction is accounted for at the recorded amounts of the assets manufacturers exchanged.
Management is required to exercise its judgment On January 1, 2011 the Company adopted new guidance issued by in determining whether or not the fair value of the asset received the FASB on the accounting for the annual fee paid by pharmaceutical or given up can be determined.
manufacturers to the US treasury in accordance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Healthcare and x New accounting pronouncements Education Reconciliation Act for each calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2011.
A portion of the fee will be allocated to individual entities Adopted during the period on the basis of the amount of their branded prescription drug sales to certain US Government programs for the preceding year as a percentage Revenue recognition in multiple deliverable revenue arrangements of the industrys branded prescription drug sales for the same period On January 1, 2011 the Company adopted new guidance issued by the to these same programs.
This guidance specifies that the liability for the Financial Accounting Standard Board FASB on revenue recognition fee should be estimated and recorded in full upon the first qualifying sale in multiple deliverable revenue arrangements.
This amends the existing with a corresponding deferred cost that is amortized to expense using guidance on allocating consideration received between the elements a straight-line method of allocation unless another method better allocates in a multiple deliverable arrangement and establishes a selling price the fee over the calendar year that it is payable.
The adoption of the hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable.
The selling guidance did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated price used for each deliverable will be based on vendor specific financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
objective evidence VSOE if available, third party evidence if VSOE Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 87 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 87 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Goodwill impairment testing continued In September 2011 the FASB issued guidance on the testing of goodwill for impairment.
The guidance permits an entity to first assess Disclosure of supplementary pro-forma information the qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or for business combinations circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not On January 1, 2011 the Company adopted new guidance issued that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.
by the FASB which clarifies the acquisition date that should be used If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity for reporting pro-forma financial information disclosures in a business determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting combination when comparative financial statements are presented.
unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step The guidance specifies that the entity should disclose revenue and impairment test is unnecessary.
The more-likely-than-not threshold earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50%.
An entity also has that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit of the comparable prior annual reporting period.
The guidance in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the also improves the usefulness of the pro-forma revenue and earnings two-step goodwill impairment test and may resume performing the disclosures by requiring a description of the nature and amount qualitative assessment in any subsequent periods.
The guidance will of material, nonrecurring pro-forma adjustments that are directly be effective for interim and annual goodwill impairment tests performed attributable to the business combination.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011.
Early adoption prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is permitted.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this is on or after January 1, 2011.
The Company has historically presented guidance to have a material effect on its consolidated financial position, pro-forma business combination disclosures in accordance with results of operations and cash flows.
the guidance, and therefore the adoption of guidance did not impact the Companys disclosures on business combinations.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES To be adopted in future periods The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity Amendments to achieve common fair value measurement with accounting principles generally accepted in the US US GAAP and disclosure requirements in US GAAP and International and SEC regulations, requires management to make estimates and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, In May 2011 the FASB issued guidance on fair value measurement disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the and disclosure, which both amends existing requirements and consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues improves the comparability of fair value measurement and disclosure and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ, between US GAAP and IFRS.
Some of the amendments clarify the potentially significantly, from amounts recorded, based on the application of existing fair value measurement requirements and Companys estimates and assumptions.
Estimates and assumptions other amendments change a particular principle or requirement for are primarily made in relation to the valuation of intangible assets, measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value the valuation of equity investments, sales deductions, income taxes, measurements.
The guidance will be effective prospectively for interim provisions for litigation and the measurement of contingent and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011.
Early adoption consideration receivable from product divestments.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material effect on its consolidated financial position, i Valuation of intangible assets results of operations and cash flows.
In accordance with US GAAP the Company classifies intangible assets into three categories: i finite lived intangible assets, which are Presentation of comprehensive income amortized over their estimated useful lives: ii intangible assets with In June 2011 the FASB issued guidance on the presentation of indefinite lives, which are not subject to amortization: and iii goodwill.
comprehensive income which revises the manner in which entities present comprehensive income in their financial statements.
The At December 31, 2011 the carrying value of the Companys finite guidance requires entities to report components of comprehensive lived intangible assets was $2,373.2 million 2010: $1,839.2 million: income in either: i a single, continuous statement of comprehensive 2009: $1,784.6 million, the carrying value of the Companys indefinite income: or ii two separate but consecutive statements.
The guidance lived intangible assets was $119.8 million 2010: $139.7 million: does not change those items which must be reported in other 2009: $6.1 million, and the carrying value of the Companys goodwill comprehensive income, and does not change the definition of net was $592.6 million 2010: $402.5 million: 2009: $384.7 million.
income or the calculation of earnings per share.
The Companys indefinite lived intangible assets relate solely to IPR&D assets acquired through business combinations, which are In December 2011 the FASB amended the guidance issued in June either subject to amortization following completion, or impairment 2011 on the presentation of comprehensive income.
The amendments on abandonment, of the relevant development project.
deferred the requirements to present on the face of the financial statements the effects of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the components of net income and other comprehensive income for all periods presented.
The guidance will be effective retrospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 88 88 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued The valuations are based on information at the time of the acquisition of the identifiable intangible assets, and the expectations and a Initial valuation of intangible assets acquired through business assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the Companys combinations management and ii are based on information, expectations and The Company accounts for business combinations primarily the assumptions that would be available to, and made by, a market acquisitions of TKT in 2005, New River in 2007, Jerini in 2008, Movetis participant.
No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying in 2010 and ABH in 2011 using the acquisition method of accounting, assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be projected.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair may vary from forecasts of future cash flows, and dependent on values.
Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values the outcome of future events or circumstances impairment losses of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The determination of as outlined below may result.
The use of different estimates and estimated fair values of acquired intangible assets, as well as the useful assumptions to those used by the Company could result in a materially economic life ascribed to finite lived intangible assets, requires the use different valuation of finite lived intangible assets.
However, as the of significant judgment.
The use of different estimates and assumptions valuation process for intangible assets involves a number of interto those used by the Company could result in a materially different relating assumptions, the Company does not consider it meaningful valuation of acquired intangible assets, which could have a material to quantify the sensitivity of the valuation of intangible assets to effect on the Companys results of operations.
changes in any individual assumption.
Initial valuation of finite lived intangible assets Initial valuation of indefinite lived intangible assets IPR&D At December 31, 2011 the carrying value of the Companys finite IPR&D represents the fair value assigned to incomplete technologies lived intangible assets was $2,373.2 million 2010: $1,839.2 million: and development projects that the Company has acquired through 2009: $1,784.6 million, primarily representing the following products: business combinations or asset acquisitions, which at the date of DERMAGRAFT product technology $690.3 million, FIRAZYR the relevant acquisition have not reached technological feasibility or $222.0 million, REPLAGAL $228.6 million, RESOLOR $270.2 which have no alternative future use.
The Company considers that million, and VYVANSE $824.0 million.
a technology or development project has an alternative future use if it is probable that the Company will use the asset in its current, The fair values of all finite lived identifiable intangible assets, incomplete state as it existed at the acquisition date, the asset will for commercialized products and developed product technologies, be used in another development project that has not yet commenced, acquired through business combinations have been determined and future economic benefit is expected from that use.
The Company using an income approach on a project-by-project basis using the has determined that historically all such acquired development projects multi-period excess earnings method.
The multi-period excess did not have an alternative future use.
earnings method starts with a forecast of all expected future net cash flows which a market participant could have either generated Prior to January 1, 2009 the fair value ascribed to such technologies or or saved as a result of ownership of the intellectual property, customer development projects was immediately expensed to the consolidated relationships, product technologies and other intangible assets.
These statements of income in the year of acquisition.
The Company cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying a market recorded IPR&D expense on the following significant business participant discount rate that reflects the risk factors that a market combinations that closed prior to January 1, 2009: $128 million participant would associate with the cash flows to the extent on acquisition of Jerini in 2008, $1,866 million for New River in 2007 the underlying cash flows have not similarly been risk adjusted.
In 2008 the Company also recorded IPR&D expense of $135 million in respect of the asset acquisition The forecast of future cash flows requires various assumptions of METAZYM from Zymenex.
Additionally, non-refundable fees paid to be made, including: on the in-licensing of products that have not yet received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use have been expensed i revenue that is reasonably likely to result from the sale of products and presented within R&D in the consolidated statements of income.
including the estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration and estimated market For those business combinations which closed subsequent to January share and year-over-year growth rates over the product lifecycles: 1, 2009 IPR&D has been recorded as an indefinite lived intangible ii royalty or license fees saved by owning the intellectual property asset.
At the time of initial acquisition, the Company recorded indefinite associated with the products: lived IPR&D assets of $139 million on acquisition of Movetis in 2010, and $6 million on acquisition of EQUASYM from UCB in 2009. iii cost of sales for the products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: The fair value of IPR&D assets is determined using the income iv sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period excess or other sources of market data: earnings method.
The fair value of the acquired IPR&D assets has been based on the present value of probability adjusted incremental cash v general and administrative expenses: flows which a market participant would expect to be generated by the vi R&D expenses: IPR&D projects after the deduction of contributory asset charges for other assets employed in these projects.
This method incorporates an vii the estimated life of the products: and evaluation of the risks associated with the development project, which viii the tax amortization benefit available to a market participant include applying an appropriate discount rate commensurate with the purchasing the relevant assets outside of a business combination.
projects stage of completion, the nature of the product, the scientific data associated with the technology, the current patent situation and market competition.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 89 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 89 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued The Company reviews the useful life of its intangible assets subject to amortization at each reporting period, and revises its estimate of the The forecast of future cash flows required the following assumptions useful life if warranted by events or circumstances.
Any future changes to be made: to the useful life of the Companys finite lived intangible assets could result in higher or lower amortization charges in future periods, which i revenue that is likely to result from specific IPR&D projects, could materially affect the Companys operating results.
including the likelihood of approval of the product, estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated The Company reviews its finite lived intangible assets for impairment market penetration, estimated market share and year-over-year using a two-step approach, whenever events or circumstances growth rates over the product lifecycles: suggest that the carrying value of these finite lived intangible assets ii cost of sales related to the potential products using historical may not be recoverable.
Under step one, if the undiscounted cash data, industry data or other sources of market data: flows resulting from the use and ultimate disposition of the finite lived intangible asset based on entity specific assumptions are less than its iii sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry carrying value, the intangible asset is considered not to be recoverable.
data or other market data: The impairment loss is determined under step two as the amount by iv general and administrative expenses: which the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value based on market participant assumptions.
v R&D expenses to complete the development of the acquired products, including the likelihood of the IPR&D project progressing Events or circumstances that could suggest that the Companys finite to the next development stage: and lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, and which would lead vi the tax amortization benefit available to a market participant to an evaluation of the recoverability of the relevant asset, include, but purchasing the relevant assets outside of a business combination.
are not limited to, the following: changes to a products commercialization strategy: The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely completion of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to confirm thethe loss of patent protection, regulatory exclusivity or challenge safety and efficacy of the technology based on the data from ongoing or circumvention by competitors of the Companys regulatory clinical trials, and obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals.
exclusivity patents: The use of different estimates and assumptions to those used by the development and marketing of competitive products, the Company could result in a materially different valuation of IPR&D.
including generic entrants into the market place: However, as the valuation process for IPR&D involves a number of inter-relating assumptions, the Company does not consider changes to the product labels, or other regulatory intervention: it meaningful to quantify the sensitivity of the valuation of IPR&D sustained government pressure on prices and, specifically, to changes in any individual assumption.
competitive pricing: The valuation of IPR&D has been based on information that existed the occurrence of significant adverse events in respect to the at the time of the acquisition of the relevant development project, Companys products: and utilized expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed a significant deterioration in a products operating performance reasonable by Shires management, and ii are based on information, compared to expectations: and expectations and assumptions that would be available to and made by a market participant.
However, no assurance can be given thatan expectation that the intangible asset will be divested before the underlying assumptions or estimates associated with the valuation the end of its previously estimated useful life.
of IPR&D will occur as projected.
If certain of the IPR&D projects fail during development, are abandoned, or do not receive the relevant The occurrence of any such events or circumstances could adversely regulatory approvals, the Company may not realize the future cash affect the Companys estimates of the future net cash flows generated flows that it has estimated, nor recover the value of the R&D investment by its finite lived intangible assets.
The Company has not recognized made subsequent to acquisition of the relevant project.
If such any impairment losses in relation to finite lived intangible assets in the circumstances occur, the Companys future operating results could year to December 31, 2011 2010: $42.7 million which related to the be materially adversely impacted.
DAYTRANA intangible asset as a result of divestment to Noven: 2009: $nil.
Dependent on future events or circumstances, the Companys b Subsequent measurement of intangible assets operating results could be materially and adversely affected by future impairment losses relating to its finite lived intangible assets.
Finite lived intangible assetsestimation of amortization charges and impairment losses Indefinite lived intangible assets IPR&D estimation Managements estimate of the useful life of its finite lived intangible of impairment losses assets considers, inter alia, the following factors: The Company reviews its indefinite lived intangible assets which currently only relate to IPR&D assets for impairment annually or more the expected use of the finite lived intangible asset by the Company: frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset any legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit might be impaired.
Indefinite lived assets are reviewed for impairment or extend the useful life: using a one-step approach, which compares the fair value of the indefinite lived asset based on market participant assumptions with the effects of demand and competition, including the launch its carrying amount.
An impairment loss is recognized to the extent of generic products: and that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the relevant other general economic and or industry specific factors such indefinite lived intangible asset.
as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 90 90 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued ii Valuation of equity investments At December 31, 2011 the carrying value of the Companys Events or circumstances that could suggest that the Companys IPR&D investments in certain public and private pharmaceutical assets may not be recoverable, and which would lead to an evaluation and biotechnology companies amounted to $29.9 million of the relevant asset for impairment, include those factors considered 2010: $101.6 million: 2009: $105.7 million.
The carrying values for finite lived intangible assets outlined above as well as any adverse of these investments are periodically reviewed for other than changes to the technological or commercial viability of the IPR&D temporary impairment, at least quarterly or more frequently projects, which could include abandonment of the relevant project.
if certain events or circumstances suggest that the carrying value The occurrence of any such events or circumstances, could adversely of an investment exceeds its fair value.
affect the Companys estimates of the future net cash flows generated by, and the fair value of, its indefinite lived intangible assets.
Indicators of other than temporary impairment which are considered by the Company, include: After the identification of such events, circumstances, and the resultant a the market value of a quoted investment being below the cost impairment reviews, the Company recognized impairment losses of of the investment: $16.0 million in the year to December 31, 2011 2010 and 2009: $nil in respect of certain indefinite lived intangible assets.
Dependent b adverse news on an investees progress in scientific technology on future events or circumstances, the Companys operating results development of compounds: and could be materially and adversely affected by future impairment losses c recent stock issuances at a price below the Companys relating to its indefinite lived intangible assets.
Goodwillestimation of impairment losses If the fair value appears to be below the cost of the investment, the The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, Company considers all available evidence in assessing whether there or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate the carrying is an other than temporary impairment.
This evidence would include, amount of goodwill may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is reviewed for but is not limited to: impairment at the reporting unit level, which for the Company is at the same level as its operating segments, SP, HGT and subsequent the length of time and or the extent to which the market value to the acquisition of ABH in 2011, RM.
of the investee is less than the cost of the investment: the level of progress in the investees scientific At December 31, 2011 goodwill of $243.5 million December 31, 2010: technology development of compounds: $245.9 million is held in the SP segment, $152.1 million December 31, 2010: $156.6 million in the HGT segment and $197.0 millionongoing activity in collaborations with the investee: December 31, 2010: $nil is held in the RM segment.
whether or not other substantial investee-specific adverse events have occurred which may cause a decline in value: The Company reviews goodwill for impairment using a two-step approach.
Step one requires a comparison of the fair value of the analysis and valuation of comparable companies: and each of the Companys reporting units with its carrying value, including the overall financial condition and near-term prospects of the goodwill.
If the carrying value of each reporting unit exceeds its investee, including its ability to obtain financing to progress estimated fair value, goodwill included within that reporting unit is development of its compounds.
deemed not to be recoverable, in which case Step two is performed.
Under Step two, if the carrying amount of a reporting units goodwill In instances when this review indicates that there is an other than exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount temporary impairment of the Companys investment in private equal to that excess.
companies, the Company records an other than temporary impairment loss to record the investment at its then current fair value.
For the The Company determines the fair value of its reporting units Companys investments in public companies which are accounted and if required in any Step two, the fair value of its goodwill through for as available for sale securities, if these investments are deemed a present value technique, principally using the income approach.
The to be other than temporarily impaired, any unrealized holding loss determination of fair value of the Companys reporting units requires the is reclassified from other comprehensive income by recording use of significant judgment and assumptions, which include, inter alia, an other than temporary impairment charge in the consolidated the estimation of future cash flows and an appropriate discount rate to statements of income.
determine the fair value of each reporting unit.
During 2011 Shire recorded impairment charges for its non-current The Companys annual goodwill impairment review performed as of investments in private companies of $1.3 million 2010 and 2009: $nil.
October 1, 2011, 2010 and 2009 indicated that the estimated fair value During the year to December 31, 2011, the Company recorded other of each of the Companys reporting units exceeded their carrying than temporary impairment charges of $2.4 million for its available for values.
Goodwill was, therefore, not considered impaired.
However, sale securities 2010: $1.5 million: 2009, $0.8 million.
At December 31, dependent on future events or circumstances, the Companys 2011 the Company has a net unrealized holding loss of $1.1 million operating results could be materially and adversely affected by any net of taxes 2010: a gain of $0.3 million, net.
future impairment losses relating to its goodwill.
The determination of the fair value of private company investments and the determination of whether an unrealized holding loss on a publicly quoted investment is other than temporary requires significant management judgment.
Any future events or circumstances which could lead to the recognition of other than temporary impairment charges could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 91 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 91 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued There are potentially different interpretations as to how shipments of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should be iii Sales deductions included in the Medicaid rebate calculation.
Since authorized generic Sales deductions consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid launch in 2009 the Company has recorded its accrual for Medicaid and other government agencies, contractual rebates with healthrebates based on its best estimate of the rebate payable, consistent maintenance organizations HMOs, product returns, sales discounts with the Companys interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation.
including trade discounts and distribution service fees, wholesaler Shire believes that its interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation charge-backs, and allowances for coupon sampling programs.
These is reasonable and correct.
In addition, from October 1, 2010, provisions deductions are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period of the 2010 Affordable Care Act provide further clarity, in a manner as the related sales with estimates of future utilization derived from consistent with the Companys interpretation, as to how shipments of historical experience adjusted to reflect known changes in the factors authorized generics from that date should be included in the Medicaid that impact such reserves.
On the balance sheet the Company records rebate calculation.
wholesaler charge-backs and prompt payment discounts as a reserve against accounts receivable, whereas all other sales deductions are The CMS could disagree with Shires interpretation of the Medicaid recorded within current liabilities.
rebate legislation for shipments of authorized generic products prior to October 1, 2010.
CMS could require Shire to apply an alternative The Company has the following significant categories of sales interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation and request that Shire deductions, all of which involve estimates and judgments which the pays up to $212 million above the recorded liability.
However, Shire Company considers to be critical accounting estimates, and require believes it has a strong legal basis supporting its interpretation of the the Company to use information from external sources: Medicaid rebate legislation, and that there would be a strong basis to limit any additional payment to a level approximating the full, unrebated Medicaid and managed care rebates cost to the States of ADDERALL XR equivalent to approximately Statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates $134 million above the recorded liability, and to initiate litigation to to Managed Care Organizations MCO under managed care recover any amount paid in excess of the recorded liability.
The result programs are based on statutory or negotiated discounts to the selling of any such litigation cannot be predicted.
Medicaid rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product if prices increase faster than Any future change in the Companys best estimate of the ADDERALL inflation.
XR Medicaid rebate liability for the period prior to October 1, 2010 could significantly decrease reported ADDERALL XR net product sales As it can take up to six months for information to reach the Company and impact the Companys financial condition and results of operations on actual usage of the Companys products in managed care and in the period in which any such change of estimate were to occur.
Medicaid programs and on the total rebates to be reimbursed, the Company maintains reserves for amounts payable under these Aggregate accruals for Medicaid and MCO rebates at December 31, programs relating to sold products.
Historically, The amount of the reserve is based on historical experience of rebates, actual rebates have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
the timing of payments, the level of reimbursement claims, changes in prices both normal selling prices and statutory or negotiated prices, Product returns changes in prescription demand patterns, projected product returns The Company typically accepts customer product returns in the and the levels of inventory in the distribution channel.
Adjustments following circumstances: a expiration of shelf life: b product damaged are made for known changes in these factors, such as how shipments while in the possession of Shire: c under sales terms that allow of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should for unconditional return guaranteed sales : or d following product be included in the Medicaid rebate calculation pursuant to Medicaid recalls or product withdrawals.
Returns are generally accepted up rebate legislation.
to one year after expiration date of the relevant product.
The Company typically refunds the agreed proportion of the sales price by the Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel are issuance of a credit, rather than cash refund or exchanges from based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers inventory, and the returned product is destroyed.
and results of independently commissioned retail inventory surveys.
Shire estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result Revisions or clarification of guidelines from the CMS related to state in a return by considering relevant factors, including: Medicaid and other government program reimbursement practices past product returns activity: with retroactive application can result in changes to managements estimates of the rebates reported in prior periods.
the duration of time taken for products to be returned: the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: The accrual estimation process for Medicaid and managed care rebates involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, product recalls and discontinuances: which vary for each combination of product and Medicaid agency or the shelf life of products: MCO.
Accordingly it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, withthe launch of new drugs or new formulations: and the exception of the estimation of the Medicaid unit rebate amount the loss of patent protection or new competition.
URA for ADDERALL XR for the period prior to October 1, 2010 see below, Shire does not believe that the effect of these Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel uncertainties, taken as a whole, significantly impacts the Companys are based on product-by-product inventory data provided by financial condition or results of operations.
wholesalers and results of independently commissioned third party retail inventory surveys.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 92 92 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued management for prior years of $30.4 million, which were partially offset by a release in provisions for uncertain tax positions of $11.4 million Returns reserves for new products generally require a higher level primarily following conclusion of ongoing audits.
In the year to of estimation than estimates for established products.
For shipments December 31, 2009 the Company recognized additional interest made to support the commercial launch of a new product which can expense of $21.3 million on its provision for uncertain tax positions include guaranteed sales the Companys policy is to defer recognition following the receipt of new information on the amount of interest of the sales revenue until there is evidence of end-patient acceptance that may be payable upon settlement of the relevant tax position.
of the new product primarily through third party prescription data.
For shipments after launch under standard terms i. e. not guaranteed Any outcome upon settlement that differs from the recorded provision sales, the Companys initial estimates of sales return accruals are for uncertain tax positions may result in a materially higher or lower primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar tax expense in future periods, which could significantly impact the products shortly after launch.
Once sufficient historical data on actual Companys results of operations or financial condition.
However, we returns of the product are available, the returns provision is based on do not believe it possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact this data and any other relevant factors as noted above.
of any such change in assumptions, estimates or judgments and the resultant change, if any, in the Companys provision for uncertain tax The accrual estimation process for product returns involves in each positions, as any such change is dependent on factors such as future case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each changes in tax law or administrative practice, the amount and nature combination of product and customer.
Accordingly, it would not be of additional taxes which may be asserted by the taxation authorities, meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual and the willingness of the relevant tax authorities to negotiate a assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not believe that the settlement for any such position.
effect of uncertainties, as a whole, significantly impacts the Companys financial condition or results of operations.
At December 31, 2011 the Company recognized a liability of $265.5 million for total unrecognized tax benefits 2010: $290.8 million At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, provisions for product returns and had accrued $114.5 million 2010: $110.5 million for the payment were $88.8 million, $69.8 million, and $62.7 million or 2%, 2% and 2% of interest and penalties.
The Company is required in certain tax respectively, of net product sales.
Historically, actual returns have not jurisdictions to make advance deposits to tax authorities on receipt varied significantly from the reserves provided.
These payments are either offset against the income tax liability or establish an income tax receivable but do not iv Income taxes reduce the provision for unrecognized tax benefits.
In accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, management is required to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefit should be recognized The Company has significant deferred tax assets due to various tax in the consolidated financial statements, based on whether it is more attributes, including Net Operating Losses NOLs, tax credits from likely than not that the technical merits of the position will be sustained Research and Development, Investment Tax Credits and Alternative based on audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax Minimum Tax principally in the Republic of Ireland, the US, Belgium, benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based Germany and the UK.
At December 31, 2011 the Company had upon the largest amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgment, deferred tax liabilities of $714 million 2010: $433 million: 2009: is greater than 50% likely to be realized based on a cumulative $448 million and gross deferred tax assets of $667 million 2010: probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
In accounting for $569 million: 2009: $515 million, against which the Company had income tax uncertainties, management is required to make judgments recorded valuation allowances of $212 million 2010: $200 million: in the determination of the unit of account, the evaluation of the facts, 2009: $149 million.
circumstances and information in respect of the tax position taken, together with the estimates of amounts that the Company may be The realization of these assets is not assured and is dependent required to pay in ultimate settlement with the tax authority.
on the generation of sufficient taxable income in future periods.
Management is required to exercise judgment in determining whether Shire operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns it is more likely than not that it would realize these deferred tax assets, are subject to audit and adjustment by local tax authorities.
As Shire based upon estimates of future taxable income and the availability of operates globally, the nature of the uncertain tax positions is often prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies in the various jurisdictions very complex and subject to change and the amounts at issue can be in which these NOLs and other tax attributes exist.
Shire develops its cumulative probability assessment to is an expectation that on the balance of probabilities there will not measure uncertain tax positions using internal expertise, experience be sufficient taxable profits to utilize these tax attributes a valuation and judgment, together with the assistance from professional advisors.
allowance is held against these deferred tax assets.
If actual events Original estimates are refined as additional information becomes differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these known.
For example, in the year to December 31, 2011 the Company estimates are adjusted in the future, any changes to the valuation released certain provisions for uncertain tax positions totaling allowance could significantly impact the Companys financial condition $15.0 million, primarily following the conclusion of prior year audits: and results of operations.
these releases were partially offset by the recognition of additional provisions for uncertain tax positions of $19.6 million in relation to ongoing compliance management for current and prior years.
In the year to December 31, 2010 the Company recognized additional provisions for uncertain tax positions in relation to ongoing compliance Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 93 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 93 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS v Litigation and legal proceedings Acquisition of ABH The Company has a number of lawsuits pending that relate to On May 17, 2011 the Company announced that it had entered into intellectual property infringement claims, and in September 2009 the an Agreement and Plan of Merger, the Agreement to acquire 100% Company received a subpoena from the US Department of Health and of the outstanding shares and other equity instruments of ABH.
On Human Services Office of the Inspector General seeking production June 28, 2011, in accordance with the terms of the Agreement, Shire of documents related to the sales and marketing of ADDERALL XR, completed its acquisition of ABH.
The fair value of cash consideration DAYTRANA and VYVANSE, see Note 20 Commitments and paid by the Company is $739.6 million.
The purchase price was funded contingencies to the consolidated financial statements for further by a combination of Shires existing cash resources and $30.0 million details.
Shire records a loss contingency provision for probable losses drawn down on Shires revolving credit facility.
when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
Where the estimated loss lies within a range, management records a loss The acquisition of ABH adds the DERMAGRAFT product, a biocontingency provision based on its best estimate of the probable loss.
engineered skin substitute, to Shires portfolio.
DERMAGRAFT is Where no particular amount within that range is a better estimate than marketed in the US for the treatment of DFU greater than six weeks any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
These estimates in duration, and brings future growth prospects in other territories and are often developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is indications.
The acquisition combines ABHs expertise and commercial known, so estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional capability in regenerative medicine with the Companys strengths and information becomes known.
Best estimates are reviewed quarterly expertise in human cell biological manufacturing.
and estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from Shires best estimate may The acquisition of ABH has been accounted for as a purchase result in an additional or lesser expense in a future accounting period, business combination.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed which could materially impact the Companys financial condition and from ABH have been recorded at their preliminary fair values at the results of operations.
date of acquisition, being June 28, 2011.
The Companys consolidated financial statements and results of operations include the results vi Contingent consideration receivable from product divestments of ABH from June 28, 2011.
In the year to December 31, 2011 the Consideration receivable by the Company on the divestment of Company included revenues of $105.3 million 2010: $nil: 2009: $nil product rights typically includes up front receipts and or milestones and pre tax losses of $15.3 million 2010: $nil: 2009: $nil after and royalties which are contingent on the outcome of future events intangible asset amortization of $20.0 million 2010: $nil: 2009: $nil with such milestones and royalties being, for example, based upon for ABH within its Consolidated Statements of Income.
the future sales performance of the divested product.
Contingent consideration occasionally represents a significant proportion of the economic value receivable by the Company for a divested product.
In these situations the Company initially recognizes this contingent consideration as an asset at its divestment date fair value, with remeasurement of this asset to its then current fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
At December 31, 2011 the Company has contingent consideration assets of $37.8 million 2010: $61.0 million: 2009: $nil, related to the divestment of DAYTRANA to Noven in October 2010.
The fair value of the contingent consideration receivable has been estimated using the income approach using a discounted cash flow method.
This discounted cash flow approach uses significant unobservable Level 3 inputs as defined in US GAAP including: forecast future relevant sales of the divested product: the number of years over which such sales will be generated: the relevant contractual royalty rates associated with such sales: an appropriate discount rate to be applied in calculating the present value of forecast future cash inflows: and assumed weightings applied to differing revenue scenarios used to derive a probability weighted fair value.
Significant judgment is employed by the Company in developing these estimates and assumptions, both at the date of divestment and in subsequent periods.
If actual events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, the Companys financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the period of any such change of estimate.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 94 94 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The Companys preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is outlined below: Preliminary Fair value $M Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 14.6 Accounts receivable 30.1 Inventories 30.7 Deferred tax assets 51.1 Other current assets 7.9 Total current assets 134.4 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 16.6 Goodwill 197.0 Other intangible assets DERMAGRAFT product technology 710.0 other intangible assets 1.5 Other non-current assets 0.2 Total assets 1,059.7 LIABILITIES Current liabilities: Accounts payable and other current liabilities 52.4 Non-current liabilities: Long-term debt, less current portion 9.1 Deferred tax liabilities 258.5 Other non-current liabilities 0.1 Total liabilities 320.1 Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 739.6 Consideration Cash consideration payable 739.6 The purchase price allocation is preliminary pending final determination of the fair values of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The final determination of these fair values will be completed as soon as possible but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 95 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 95 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued On October 12, 2010 the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Shire Holdings Luxembourg S. a. r. l. acquired 99.21% of the shares of Movetis Other intangible assets principally comprise $710.0 million relating as a result of the successful tender offer.
By November 8, 2010, following to DERMAGRAFT product technology, the product brand name and a statutory squeeze-out of the remaining shares and warrants not related relationships.
The fair value of this asset has been estimated tendered in the offer, the Company had acquired 100% of the shares and using an income approach, using the excess earnings method.
The warrants in Movetis for a total cash consideration of $592.0 million.
The estimated useful life of the technology is 18 years, and amortization acquisition of Movetis was funded from Shires existing cash resources.
expense will be recorded on a straight-line basis.
The acquisition significantly broadens Shires global GI portfolio Goodwill arising of $197.0 million, which is not deductible for tax and adds growing revenues from RESOLOR, a new chemical entity purposes, has been assigned to the Regenerative Medicine RM indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic constipation in operating segment.
Goodwill includes the values of tax synergies, women in whom laxatives fail to provide adequate relief.
Movetis assembled workforce and future potential indications for has the rights to RESOLOR in the European Union EU, Iceland, DERMAGRAFT which at the time of acquisition did not meet the Lichtenstein, Norway and Switzerland the Movetis Territory and is criteria for recognition as separate intangible assets.
entitled to royalties on sales of RESOLOR outside Europe and the US from Johnson & Johnson J&J.
The acquisition also brought to Shire In the year to December 31, 2011 the Company incurred integration world-class R&D talent and a promising GI pipeline.
On January 10, and acquisition-related costs of $13.6 million 2010: $nil in respect 2012 Shire also acquired the rights to RESOLOR in the US from J&J.
of the acquisition of ABH, which have been charged to Integration and acquisition costs in the Companys income statement.
The acquisition of Movetis has been accounted for as a purchase business combination.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed Acquisition of Movetis from Movetis have been recorded at their fair value at October 12, 2010, On September 6, 2010 the Company launched a voluntary public being the date of acquisition.
The Companys consolidated financial takeover offer for all the shares and warrants in Movetis, a Belgiumstatements and results of operations include the results of Movetis from based specialty GI company, at a price of 19 per share in cash.
The Companys allocation of the purchase price to the Movetis assets acquired and liabilities assumed is outlined below: Fair value $M ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 109.0 Short-term investment 7.0 Other current assets 8.6 Total current assets 124.6 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 1.1 Goodwill 27.9 Other intangible assets currently marketed product 317.0 IPR&D 139.0 other intangible assets 14.0 Other non-current assets 0.8 Deferred tax asset 40.4 Total assets 664.8 LIABILITIES Current liabilities: Accounts payable and other current liabilities 19.0 Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liability 53.8 Total liabilities 72.8 Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 592.0 Consideration Cash consideration paid 592.0 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 96 96 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued c Goodwill Goodwill arising of $27.9 million, which is not deductible for tax a Other intangible assetscurrently marketed product purposes, has been assigned to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals Other intangible assets include $317.0 million relating to intellectual operating segment.
property rights in the Movetis Territory for Movetis currently marketed product, RESOLOR, for the treatment of chronic constipation In the year to December 31, 2010 the Company expensed transaction in women in whom laxatives fail to provide adequate relief.
The fair costs of $6.9 million relating to the Movetis acquisition, which value of RESOLOR for the treatment of chronic constipation in have been recorded within Integration and acquisition costs in the women in the Movetis Territory has been estimated using an income Companys consolidated statements of income.
approach, based on the present value of incremental after tax cash flows attributable to the asset after deduction of contributory The amounts of Movetiss revenue and losses included in the asset charges.
Companys consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2010 are $0.3 million of revenues and $17.5 million The estimated useful life of the RESOLOR currently marketed product of pre tax losses.
intangible asset is 14 years, with amortization being recorded on a straight-line basis.
Acquisition of EQUASYM IR and XL On March 31, 2009 the Company acquired the worldwide rights b Other intangible assetsIPR&D excluding the US, Canada and Barbados to EQUASYM IR and XL IPR&D relates to development projects acquired with Movetis, that for the treatment of ADHD from UCB Pharma Limited UCB for cash have been initiated and have achieved material progress and whose consideration of $72.8 million.
Included in the recognized purchase fair value is estimable with reasonable certainty but i have not yet price for the acquisition is further consideration of $18.2 million, of reached technological feasibility or have not yet received the relevant which $12.0 million was paid to UCB in the year to December 31, 2010. regulatory approval and ii have no alternative future use.
The remaining contingent consideration was not paid in 2011 as the relevant sales target was not met.
This acquisition broadened the IPR&D principally relates to RESOLOR for the treatment of chronic scope of Shires ADHD portfolio and facilitated immediate access to constipation in men $93 million and children $42 million in the the European ADHD market as well as providing Shire the opportunity Movetis Territory.
The fair value of these IPR&D assets have been to enter additional markets around the world.
estimated based on an income approach, using the present value of incremental after tax cash flows expected to be generated by these The acquisition of EQUASYM IR and XL was accounted for as development projects after the deduction of contributory asset charges a business combination.
The purchase price was allocated to the for other assets employed in these projects.
The estimated cash flows currently marketed products $73.0 million, IPR&D $5.5 million, have been probability-adjusted to take into account their stage of other liabilities $0.7 million and goodwill $13.2 million.
completion and the remaining risks and uncertainties surrounding their future development and commercialization.
The estimated, probability Acquisition of Jerini adjusted after tax cash flows have been discounted at rates between On July 3, 2008 the Company announced that it was launching 1214% to determine a present, or fair, value.
a voluntary public takeover offer for all outstanding shares in Jerini, a German corporation, at a price of EUR 6.25 per share.
By August 6, The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely completion 2008 the Company had acquired 80.1% of the voting interests in Jerini of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to confirm the for a cash consideration of $456.3 million.
In the year to December 31, efficacy of the technology based on the data from clinical trials, and 2008 the Company acquired 98.6% of the voting interests in Jerini obtaining the relevant regulatory approvals.
The valuation of IPR&D for a cash consideration of $556.5 million, represented by Jerini has been based on information available at the time of the acquisition shares, $539.8 million, the cash cost of canceling Jerini stock options and on expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed $9.4 million and direct costs of acquisition $7.3 million.
In the year to reasonable by the Companys management and ii are based on December 31, 2009 the Company acquired the rights to the remaining information, expectations and assumptions that would be available 1.4% of the voting interests in Jerini for additional cash consideration of to a market participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the $10.5 million including direct acquisition costs, such that the Company assumptions and events associated with such assets will occur as owned 100% of Jerini.
The acquisition added Jerinis Hereditary projected.
For these reasons, the actual cash flows may vary from Angioedema HAE product FIRAZYR to the Companys portfolio.
The acquisition of Jerini has been accounted for as a purchase business combination.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Jerini have been recorded at the date of acquisition at their fair value.
Between acquiring the Companys controlling voting interest in early August 2008 and December 31, 2009, the Company acquired the remaining voting interests totaling 19.9% of Jerinis issued share capital.
The additional voting interests have been accounted for as step-acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 97 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 97 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Supplemental disclosure of pro-forma information The following unaudited pro-forma financial information presents the combined results of the operations of Shire, ABH and Movetis as if the acquisitions of ABH and Movetis had occurred at January 1, 2010 and 2009 respectively.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually would have been had the acquisition been completed at the date indicated.
In addition, the unaudited pro-forma financial information does not purport to project the future results of operations of the combined Company.
2011 2010 2009 $M $M $M Revenues 4,353.7 3,618.9 3,007.7 Net income from continuing operations 850.9 508.4 453.0 Net income attributable to Shire plc 850.9 508.4 440.6 Per share amounts: Net income from continuing operations per sharebasic 154.4 93.1 83.8 Net income per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plcbasic 154.4 93.1 81.5 Net income from continuing operations per sharediluted 148.5 91.3 82.7 Net income per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plcdiluted 148.5 91.3 80.4 The unaudited pro-forma financial information above reflects the 5 TERMINATION OF DURAMED PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. following pro-forma adjustments: DURAMED COLLABORATION AGREEMENT ABH: In August 2006, Shire and Duramed, a subsidiary of Teva i an adjustment to net income of $49.9 million and $13.4 million for Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd, Teva entered into an agreement the year to December 31, 2011 and 2010 respectively, to eliminate related to SEASONIQUE, a number of products using Durameds the income statement effect of changes in the fair value of ABHs transvaginal ring technology and other oral products the Collaboration preferred stock warrants which were extinguished on acquisition Products.
Under this agreement, Shire was required to reimburse of ABH : Duramed for US development expenses incurred on Collaboration ii an adjustment to increase amortization expense by approximately Products up to a maximum of $140 million over eight years from $20.0 million and $40.0 million for the year to December 31, 2011 September 2006, and Shire had the right to commercialize these and 2010 respectively, to reflect amortization of intangible assets, products in a number of markets outside of North America, including principally for DERMAGRAFT product technology, over their the larger European markets.
estimated useful lives: On February 24, 2009 Shire and Duramed amended this agreement iii an adjustment to decrease net income by $13.6 million for the year such that it terminated on December 31, 2009.
Pursuant to this to December 31, 2010 to reflect acquisition and integration costs amendment, Shire agreed to return to Duramed its rights under the incurred by Shire, and increase net income by $30.6 million for agreement effective February 24, 2009.
Shire also agreed to reimburse the year to December 31, 2011 to eliminate the acquisition and Duramed for incurred US development expenditures in 2009 up to a integration costs incurred by ABH and Shire: maximum of $30.0 million.
Shire has no rights with respect iv an adjustment of $2.1 million and $2.7 million in the year to to the products on which such development expenditures are incurred.
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 respectively to reflect In addition, Shire agreed to a one time payment to Duramed of interest income foregone on the Companys cash resources used $10.0 million, which was paid during the first quarter of 2009, and to fund the acquisition of ABH and interest expense incurred as to forego royalties receivable from Barr Laboratories, Inc. Barr result of the partial funding of the acquisition of ABH through the a subsidiary of Teva and cost of goods otherwise payable by Barr Companys revolving credit facility: and to Shire in 2009 under the License Agreement between the parties for the supply of authorized generic ADDERALL XR, up to a maximum v adjustments to reflect the tax effects of the above adjustments, of $25.0 million.
During the year to December 31, 2009 the Company where applicable.
recorded a charge of $62.9 million to research and development, within the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment, to reflect Movetis the cash payment made in the first quarter of 2009 and other i an adjustment to decrease interest income increase interest termination related costs.
expense by $2.7 million and $3.6 million in the year to December 31, 2010 and 2009 respectively, to reflect the interest foregone on the Companys cash resources used to fund the acquisition of Movetis: and ii an adjustment to increase amortization expense by approximately $17.7 million and $23.6 million for the years to December 31, 2010 and 2009 respectively, to reflect amortization of intangible assets relating to the currently marketed product, over the estimated useful life of 14 years.
In addition, in the years to December 31, 2010 and 2009 the calculations of pro-forma diluted earnings per share do not include the effect of the Companys convertible bond as it would be anti dilutive on a pro-forma basis.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 98 98 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 6 DIVESTMENT OF PRODUCT RIGHTS 7 REORGANIZATION COSTS On October 1, 2010 the Company completed the divestment Establishment of an international commercial hub in Switzerland of DAYTRANA to Noven Pharmaceutical Inc. Noven Noven In March 2010 the Company initiated plans to relocate certain R&D developed and manufactures DAYTRANA, and Shire licensed and commercial operations to Switzerland to support its HGT and DAYTRANA from Noven in 2003.
No consideration was received SP businesses outside the US.
In the year to December 31, 2011, the at the time of divestment, however consideration is receivable from Company incurred reorganization costs totaling $12.5 million relating Noven dependent on DAYTRANAs performance in the period to employee involuntary termination benefits and other reorganization subsequent to divestment.
On divestment Shire recorded the fair costs.
The transition to the international commercial hub in Switzerland value of contingent consideration receivable from Noven within current has been completed in 2011.
The total reorganization costs incurred and non-current assets.
During the year to December 31, 2011 the since March 2010 are $33.8 million.
Company recognized a loss of $6.0 million 2010: gain of $10.4 million due to changes in the fair value of this contingent consideration.
Owings Mills At December 31, 2011 the Company has recorded a receivable In March 2009 the Company initiated plans to phase out operations based on the fair value of future contingent consideration totaling and close its SP manufacturing facility at Owings Mills, Maryland.
$42.6 million 2010: $65.3 million, split between current assets In 2011 the Company sold its Owings Mills facility and completed $13.7 million 2010: $21.6 million and non-current assets $28.9 million the transition of all products manufactured at this site to DSM 2010: $43.7 million.
In the year to December 31, 2011 the Company incurred reorganization costs of $11.8 million which relate In the year to December 31, 2011 the Company recognized a loss to employee involuntary termination benefits and other costs.
The total of $6.0 million 2010: gain of $16.5 million: 2009: gain of $6.3 million reorganization costs incurred since March 2009 are $37.5 million.
in respect of DAYTRANA and other disposed product rights.
All assets disposed of during 2011, 2010 and 2009 formed part As a result of the decision to transfer manufacturing from the Owings of the SP operating segment.
Mills site the Company revised the useful life of property, plant and equipment in the facility and in the year to December 31, 2011 incurred accelerated depreciation of $6.6 million, which has been charged to Cost of product sales.
The reorganization costs and accelerated depreciation have been recorded within the SP operating segment.
The liability for reorganization costs arising on the establishment of the international commercial hub in Switzerland and transfer of manufacturing from Owings Mills at December 31, 2011 is as follows: Opening Closing liability at Amount liability at January 1, charged to December 31, 2011 reorganization Paid utilized 2011 $M $M $M $M Involuntary termination benefits 10.1 12.8 14.2 8.7 Other reorganization costs 2.3 11.5 13.7 0.1 12.4 24.3 27.9 8.8 At December 31, 2011 the closing liability for reorganization costs was recorded within accounts payable and accrued expenses.
8 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET Accounts receivable at December 31, 2011 of $845.0 million December 31, 2010: $692.5 million, are stated net of a provision for discounts and doubtful accounts of $31.1 million December 31, 2010: $23.4 million: December 31, 2009: $20.8 million.
Provision for discounts and doubtful accounts: 2011 2010 2009 $M $M $M As at January 1, 23.4 20.8 20.2 Provision charged to operations 240.8 178.1 127.4 Provision utilization 233.1 175.5 118.5 Reclassification 8.3 As at December 31, 31.1 23.4 20.8 During the year to December 31, 2009 the Group reclassified its provision for Tricare Healthcare Program rebates of $8.3 million at January 1, 2009 from provisions for discounts and doubtful accounts to accounts payable and accrued expenses.
At December 31, 2011 accounts receivable included $73.3 million December 31, 2010: $75.8 million related to royalty income.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 99 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 99 9 INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value and comprise: December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Finished goods 99.9 91.9 Work-in-progress 162.6 113.9 Raw materials 77.6 54.2 340.1 260.0 At December 31, 2011 inventories included $22.7 million December 31, 2010: $4.1 million of costs capitalized prior to regulatory approval of the related product or relevant manufacturing process.
At December 31, 2011 pre-approval inventory relates solely to VPRIV manufactured at the Companys new manufacturing facility at Lexington Technology Park LTP.
10 PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Prepaid expenses 46.9 45.1 Income tax receivable 48.1 42.4 Value added taxes receivable 18.9 21.5 Other current assets 61.0 59.4 174.9 168.4 11 INVESTMENTS December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Investments in private companies 12.8 5.9 Available for sale securities 7.4 83.9 Equity method investments 9.7 11.8 29.9 101.6 Disposal of Vertex In the year to December 31, 2011 the Company disposed of 1.8 million shares in Vertex representing substantially all of the Companys holding in Vertex for a cash consideration of $94.7 million, realizing a gain of $23.5 million which has been included in Other income, net in 2011.
The Company obtained its holding in Vertex on disposal of its investment in ViroChem Pharma Inc. see below.
Disposal of ViroChem Pharma Inc. ViroChem On March 12, 2009 the Company completed the disposal of its investment in ViroChem to Vertex in a cash and stock transaction.
The disposal was part of a transaction entered into by all the shareholders of ViroChem with Vertex.
The carrying amount of the Companys investment in ViroChem on March 12, 2009 was $14.8 million.
In 2009 Shire received consideration of $19.2 million in cash and 2 million Vertex shares valued at $50.8 million from the disposal, recognizing a gain of $55.2 million in other expense income, net in the year to December 31, 2009.
In the year to December 31, 2010 the Company received further consideration of $2.0 million in cash and 0.2 million Vertex shares valued at $9.1 million which had been held in escrow until certain substantive conditions expired in March 2010.
The Company recognized an additional gain on disposal of $11.1 million in other expense income, net in the year to December 31, 2010.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 100 100 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Land and buildings 708.0 689.9 Office furniture, fittings and equipment 338.1 304.9 Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 271.9 119.4 Assets under construction 81.7 167.7 1,399.7 1,281.9 Less: Accumulated depreciation 467.6 428.5 932.1 853.4 Depreciation expense for the years to December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $128.1 million, $119.2 million, and $105.0 million respectively.
Purchase of the Lexington Technology Park campus in Lexington, Massachusetts On June 30, 2010 Shire completed the purchase of certain properties on the Lexington Technology Park campus in Lexington, Massachusetts, some of which the Company had previously leased, for a cash purchase price of $165.0 million.
The purchase price of $165.0 million has been allocated to the acquired properties and extinguishment of existing building finance obligations using a relative fair value approach: $121.9 million has been recorded as Property, plant and equipment, being land $72.1 million and buildings $49.8 million.
The remaining $43.1 million relates to the extinguishment of existing building finance obligations, and has been applied against the relevant financing obligations see Note 18.
13 GOODWILL December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Goodwill arising on businesses acquired 592.6 402.5 During the year to December 31, 2011 the Company completed its acquisition of ABH for cash consideration payable of $739.6 million, which resulted in goodwill with a preliminary value of $197.0 million see Note 4.
The goodwill has been assigned to the RM operating segment.
During the year to December 31, 2010 the Company acquired all the shares and warrants in Movetis for cash consideration of $592.0 million, which resulted in goodwill of $27.9 million see Note 4.
The goodwill has been assigned to the SP operating segment.
At December 31, 2011 goodwill of $243.5 million December 31, 2010: $245.9 million is held in the SP segment, $152.1 million December 31, 2010: $156.6 million in the HGT segment and $197.0 million December 31, 2010: $nil is held in the RM segment.
2011 2010 $M $M As at January 1, 402.5 384.7 Acquisitions 197.0 27.9 Foreign currency translation 6.9 10.1 As at December 31, 592.6 402.5 Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 101 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 101 14 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Amortized intangible assets Intellectual property rights acquired for currently marketed products 2,500.7 2,516.4 Acquired product technology 710.0 Other intangible assets 23.2 22.0 3,233.9 2,538.4 Unamortized intangible assets Intellectual property rights acquired for IPR&D 119.8 139.7 3,353.7 2,678.1 Less: Accumulated amortization 860.7 699.2 2,493.0 1,978.9 At December 31, 2011 the net book value of intangible assets allocated to the SP segment was $1,348.3 million December 31, 2010: $1,482.9 million, to the HGT segment was $453.2 million December 31, 2010: $496.0 million and to the RM segment was $691.5 million December 31, 2010: $nil.
The change in the net book value of other intangible assets for the year to December 31, 2011 and 2010 is shown in the table below: Other intangible assets 2011 2010 $M $M As at January 1, 1,978.9 1,790.7 Acquisitions 717.1 472.7 Amortization charged 166.7 135.2 Impairment charges 16.0 Impairment on remeasurement of DAYTRANA to fair value less costs to sell 42.7 Reclassification of DAYTRANA to assets held for sale 56.0 Foreign currency translation 20.3 50.6 As at December 31, 2,493.0 1,978.9 In the year to December 31, 2011 the Company acquired intangible In the year to December 31, 2010 the Company divested DAYTRANA assets totaling $717.1 million, principally relating to DERMAGRAFT to Noven.
On approval of the divestment in the third quarter of 2010, product technology acquired with ABH see Note 4 for further details.
the held for sale criteria were met, and the Company recognized an The weighted average amortization period of acquired amortizable impairment loss of $42.7 million to record the DAYTRANA disposal intangible assets is 18 years.
group at the lower of its carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.
The impairment loss was recorded to selling, general and In the year to December 31, 2011 the Company recorded impairment administrative expenses in the year to December 31, 2010.
The charges of $16.0 million 2010: $nil in respect of certain IPR&D DAYTRANA disposal group formed part of the SP operating segment.
The impairment charge has been recorded within R&D in the SP operating segment.
Management estimates that the annual amortization charge in respect of intangible assets held at December 31, 2011 will be approximately In the year to December 31, 2010 the Company acquired intangible $190 million for each of the five years to December 31, 2016.
Estimated assets totaling $472.7 million, principally relating to the RESOLOR amortization expense can be affected by various factors including currently marketed product $317.0 million and IPR&D $139.0 million future acquisitions, disposals of product rights, regulatory approval acquired through the Movetis business combination, see Note 4 for and subsequent amortization of the acquired IPR&D projects, foreign further details.
The weighted average amortization period for acquired exchange movements and the technological advancement and currently marketed products is 14 years.
regulatory approval of competitor products.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 102 102 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 15 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Trade accounts payable and accrued purchases 259.6 234.7 Accrued rebatesMedicaid 409.8 379.6 Accrued rebatesManaged care 202.8 170.3 Sales return reserve 88.8 69.8 Accrued bonuses 103.0 91.6 Accrued employee compensation and benefits payable 59.3 48.1 R&D accruals 52.7 60.7 Marketing accruals 18.2 26.5 Other accrued expenses 176.3 158.0 1,370.5 1,239.3 There are potentially different interpretations as to how shipments The Bonds may be redeemed at the option of the Company, at their of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should be principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest if: i at any included in the Medicaid rebate calculation.
Since authorized generic time after May 23, 2012, if on no less than 20 dealing days in any launch in 2009 the Company has recorded its accrual for Medicaid period of 30 consecutive dealing days the value of Shires Ordinary rebates based on its best estimate of the rebate payable, consistent Shares underlying each Bond in the principal amount of $100,000 with the Companys interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation.
would exceed $130,000: or ii at any time conversion rights have been Shire believes that its interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation exercised, and or purchases and corresponding cancelations, and or is reasonable and correct.
In addition, from October 1, 2010, provisions redemptions effected in respect of 85% or more in principal amount of the 2010 Affordable Care Act provide further clarity, in a manner of Bonds originally issued.
The Bonds may also be redeemed at the consistent with the Companys interpretation, as to how shipments option of the Bondholder at their principal amount including accrued of authorized generics from that date should be included in the but unpaid interest on May 9, 2012 the Put Option, or following the Medicaid rebate calculation.
occurrence of a change of control of Shire.
The Bonds are repayable in US dollars, but also contain provisions entitling the Company to However, the CMS could disagree with Shires interpretation of the settle redemption amounts in Pounds sterling, or in the case of the Medicaid rebate legislation for shipments of authorized generic Final Maturity Date and following exercise of the Put Option, by products prior to October 1, 2010.
CMS could require Shire to apply delivery of the underlying Ordinary Shares and a cash top-up amount.
an alternative interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation and In accordance with US GAAP, as the exercise of the Put Option request that Shire pays up to $212 million above the recorded liability.
could require the Company to redeem the Bonds within twelve However, Shire believes it has a strong legal basis supporting its months of the balance sheet date, the Bonds have been presented interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation, and that there would as a current liability at December 31, 2011. be a strong basis to limit any additional payment to a level approximating the full, unrebated cost to the States of ADDERALL XR The Bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares during the conversion equivalent to approximately $134 million above the recorded liability, period, being the period from June 18, 2007 until the earlier of: i the and to initiate litigation to recover any amount paid in excess of the close of business on the date falling 14 days prior to the Final Maturity recorded liability.
The result of any such litigation cannot be predicted.
Date: ii if the Bonds have been called for redemption by the Company, the close of business 14 days before the date fixed for redemption: iii the close of business on the day prior to a Bondholder giving notice 16 CONVERTIBLE BONDS of redemption in accordance with the conditions: and iv the giving of notice by the trustee that the Bonds are accelerated by reason Shire 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 of the occurrence of an event of default.
On May 9, 2007 Shire issued $1,100 million in principal amount of 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 and convertible into fully paid Upon conversion, the Bondholder is entitled to receive Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of Shire plc the Bonds.
The net proceeds of issuing at the conversion price of $32.83 per Ordinary Share, subject to the Bonds, after deducting the commissions and other direct costs adjustment as outlined below.
In connection with the Scheme the Trust Deed was amended and restated in 2008 in order to provide The conversion price is subject to adjustment in respect of i any that, following the substitution of Shire plc in place of Old Shire as dividend or distribution by the Company, ii a change of control the principal obligor and issuer of the Convertible Bonds, the Bonds and iii customary anti dilution adjustments for, inter alia, share would be convertible into Ordinary Shares of Shire plc.
consolidations, share splits, spin-off events, rights issues, bonus issues and reorganizations.
The initial conversion price of $33.5879 The Bonds were issued at 100% of their principal amount, and was adjusted to $33.17 with effect from March 11, 2009 as a result unless previously purchased and canceled, redeemed or converted, of cumulative dividend payments during the period from October 2007 will be redeemed on May 9, 2014 the Final Maturity Date at their to April 2009 inclusive and to $32.83 with effect from March 11, 2011 principal amount.
as a result of cumulative dividend payments during the period April 2009 to April 2011 inclusive.
The Ordinary Shares issued on conversion The Bonds bear interest at 2.75% per annum, payable semi-annually will be delivered credited as fully paid, and will rank pari passu in all in arrears on November 9 and May 9.
The Bonds constitute direct, respects with all fully paid Ordinary Shares in issue on the relevant unconditional, unsubordinated and unsecured obligations of the conversion date.
Company, and rank pari passu and ratably, without any preference amongst themselves, and equally with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 103 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 103 17 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Income taxes payable 27.7 16.2 Value added taxes 13.3 9.9 Other current liabilities 22.8 23.5 63.8 49.6 18 LONG-TERM DEBT Other long-term debt During 2007 and 2009 Shire entered into certain multi-year leases for Revolving Credit Facilities Agreement its HGT business unit at North Reading and Lexington, Massachusetts.
On November 23, 2010 the Company entered into a committed For some of these leases Shire was considered the in-substance multicurrency revolving and swingline facilities agreement with a owner of the related properties over their construction period and as a number of financial institutions, for which Abbey National Treasury result Shire recorded assets being the fair value of the building element Services Plc trading as Santander Global Banking and Markets, at inception of the relevant lease within property, plant and equipment Bank of America Securities Limited, Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global and the corresponding building financing obligations were recorded Markets Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland within other long-term debt.
The land element of these leases was plc acted as mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners the new accounted for as an operating lease.
The new RCF is for an aggregate amount of $1,200 million and canceled the Companys existing committed revolving credit facility In the year to December 31, 2009, on entering into certain of these the old RCF.
The new RCF, which includes a $250 million swingline leases Shire extended the term of the existing leases at Lexington facility, may be used for general corporate purposes and matures on Technology Park.
This lease extension was accounted for as a November 23, 2015. substantial modification of the existing building finance obligation, whereby the existing liability was derecognized and a building financing The interest rate on each loan drawn under the new RCF for each obligation based on the fair value of the liability under the revised lease interest period is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate terms recorded in its place.
The substantial modification resulted in a of the applicable margin ranging from 0.90 to 2.25% per annum and non-cash gain of $5.7 million in the year to December 31, 2009 which LIBOR for the applicable currency and interest period.
Shire also pays was recorded to other expense income, net.
a commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 35% per annum of the applicable margin.
On June 30, 2010, as outlined in Note 12, Shire completed the purchase of certain properties on the Lexington Technology Park Under the new RCF it is required that i Shires ratio of Net Debt to campus, including the properties held under building finance EBITDA as defined within the new RCF agreement does not exceed obligations.
Accordingly Shire applied $43.1 million of the purchase 3.5 to 1 for either the twelve month period ending December 31, or price for the Lexington campus to extinguish the existing building June 30, unless Shire has exercised its option which is subject to finance obligations, recognizing a loss of $3.6 million within other certain conditions to increase it to 4.0 to 1 for two consecutive testing expense income, net in the year to December 31, 2010. dates: ii the ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest as defined in the new RCF agreement must not be less than 4.0 to 1, for either the twelve month period ending December 31 or June 30, and iii additional limitations on the creation of liens, disposal of assets, incurrence of indebtedness, making of loans, giving of guarantees and granting security over assets.
These financial and operating covenants have not had, and are not expected to have, an effect on the Companys financial position and liquidity.
On entering into the new RCF in November 2010 the Company paid arrangement costs of $8.0 million, which have been recorded as deferred charges and amortized over the contractual term of the new RCF.
The availability of loans under the new RCF is subject to customary conditions.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 104 104 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 19 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Income taxes payable 78.3 130.0 Deferred revenue 12.2 14.1 Deferred rent 14.0 12.8 Insurance provisions 14.5 13.5 Other non-current liabilities 25.3 20.4 144.3 190.8 20 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a Leases Future minimum lease payments under operating leases at December 31, 2011 are presented below: Operating leases $M 2012 43.5 2013 33.5 2014 28.1 2015 21.3 2016 15.1 Thereafter 41.4 182.9 The Company leases land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain $nil which were expensed to R&D.
Shire will pay Acceleron up to a equipment under operating leases expiring through 2021.
Lease further $165.0 million, subject to certain development, regulatory and and rental expense amounted to $37.6 million, $33.3 million and sales milestones being met for HGT-4510 in DMD, up to an additional $35.5 million for the year to December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 $288 million for successful commercialization of other indications and respectively, which is predominately included in SG&A expenses molecules, and royalties on product sales.
in the consolidated statements of income.
Shire and Acceleron will conduct the collaboration through a joint b Letters of credit and guarantees steering committee, with subcommittees including a joint manufacture At December 31, 2011 the Company had irrevocable standby letters committee, and a joint patent committee to monitor the development of credit and guarantees with various banks totaling $34.7 million, of HGT-4510 and other compounds.
providing security for the Companys performance of various obligations.
These obligations are primarily in respect of the ii Research collaboration with Santaris Pharma A S Santaris recoverability of insurance claims, lease obligations and supply on Locked Nucleic Acid LNA drug platform commitments.
The Company has restricted cash of $9.2 million, On August 24, 2009 Shire announced that it had entered into a as required by these letters of credit.
research collaboration with Santaris, to develop its proprietary LNA technology in a range of rare diseases.
LNA technology has the c Collaborative arrangements benefit of shortened target validation and proof of concept, potentially Details of significant collaborative arrangements are included below: increasing the speed and lowering the cost of development.
As part of the joint research project Santaris will design, develop and deliver In-licensing arrangements preclinical LNA oligonucleotides for Shire-selected orphan disease targets, and Shire will have the exclusive right to further develop and i Collaboration with Acceleron Pharma Inc. Acceleron commercialize these candidate compounds on a worldwide basis.
for activin receptor type IIB ActRIIB class of molecules On September 9, 2010 Shire announced that it had expanded its In the year to December 31, 2009 Shire made an upfront payment HGT pipeline by acquiring an exclusive license in markets outside to Santaris of $6.5 million, for technology access and R&D funding, of North America for the ActRIIB class of molecules being developed which was expensed to R&D.
The collaboration will initially focus on further developing HGT-4510 also called ACE-031, the lead ActRIIB drug candidate, In the year to December 31, 2011 Shire paid success milestones which is in development for the treatment of patients with Duchenne and other support costs of $2.5 million 2010: $4.0 million: 2009: $nil muscular dystrophy DMD.
The Phase 2a trial is on hold and and $5.3 million 2010: $2.3 million: 2009: $0.1 million to Santaris clinical safety is under review.
HGT-4510 and the other ActRIIB class respectively, which were expensed to R&D.
Shire has remaining of molecules have the potential to be used in other muscular and obligations to pay Santaris $13.5 million subject to certain success neuromuscular disorders with high unmet medical need.
criteria, and development and sales milestones up to a maximum of $70.5 million for each indication.
Shire will also pay single or In the year to December 31, 2010 Shire made an upfront payment double digit tiered royalties on net sales of the product.
of $45 million to Acceleron which has been expensed to R&D.
Shire and Santaris have formed a joint research committee to monitor In the year to December 31, 2011 Shires share of R&D costs under this R&D activities through preclinical lead candidate selection at which collaboration agreement were $10.1 million 2010: $2.7 million: 2009: point all development and commercialization costs will be the responsibility of Shire.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 105 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 105 20 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued Co-promotion agreementsVYVANSE Shire terminated its co-promotion agreement for VYVANSE with GSK iii Collaboration and license agreement with Sangamo in 2010.
No termination payment or any other payments were made BioSciences, Inc. Sangamo to develop therapeutics or are due to GSK.
Following Shires termination, GSK filed a lawsuit for hemophilia against Shire in the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas relating to On February 1, 2012 Shire and Sangamo announced that they have the co-promotion agreement.
GSK is seeking compensation despite entered into a collaboration and license agreement to develop the failure to achieve the required sales thresholds.
Shire believes therapeutics for hemophilia and other monogenic diseases based that the lawsuit is frivolous and without merit, and Shire is vigorously on Sangamos ZFP technology.
Shire will receive exclusive worldwide defending itself.
rights to ZFP Therapeutics designed to target four genes in hemophilia and will also receive the right to designate three additional gene d Commitments targets.
Sangamo is responsible for all activities through submission of Investigational New Drug Applications and European Clinical Trial i Clinical testing Applications for each product and Shire will reimburse Sangamo At December 31, 2011 the Company had committed to pay for its internal and external research program-related costs.
Shire approximately $358.6 million December 31, 2010: $156.2 million is responsible for clinical development and commercialization of to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
products arising from the alliance.
Shire will pay Sangamo an upfront The timing of these payments is dependent upon actual services fee followed by research, regulatory, development and commercial performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrolment milestone payments, and royalties on product sales.
iv JUVISTA ii Contract manufacturing On June 19, 2007 Shire signed an agreement with Renovo Limited At December 31, 2011 the Company had committed to pay Renovo to develop and commercialize JUVISTA.
On February 11, approximately $86.4 million December 31, 2010: $108.6 million 2011, Renovo announced its Phase 3 trial for JUVISTA in scar revision in respect of contract manufacturing.
The Company expects surgery did not meet its primary or secondary endpoints.
On March 2, to pay $86.4 million of these commitments in 2012.
2011, Shire terminated its agreement with Renovo.
iii Other purchasing commitments Out-licensing arrangements At December 31, 2011 the Company had committed to pay approximately $190.1 million December 31, 2010: $104.1 million Shire has entered into various collaborative arrangements under which for future purchases of goods and services, predominantly relating the Company has out-licensed certain product or intellectual property to active pharmaceutical ingredients sourcing.
The Company rights for consideration such as upfront payments, development expects to pay $184.8 million of these commitments in 2012. milestones, sales milestones and or royalty payments.
In certain of these arrangements Shire and the licensee are both actively involved iv Investment commitments in the development and commercialization of the licensed product At December 31, 2011 the Company had outstanding commitments and have exposure to risks and rewards dependent on its commercial to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts success.
Under the terms of these arrangements, the Company totaling $9.4 million December 31, 2010: $5.7 million which may all may receive development milestone payments up to an aggregate be payable in 2012, depending on the timing of capital calls.
amount of $39.0 million and sales milestones up to an aggregate amount of $54.0 million.
The receipt of these substantive milestones v Capital commitments is uncertain and is contingent on the achievement of certain At December 31, 2011 the Company had committed to spend development milestones or the achievement of a specified level $25.4 million December 31, 2010: $76.0 million on capital projects.
of annual net sales by the licensee.
In the year to December 31, 2011 Shire received milestone payments totaling $11.5 million 2010: $nil: e Legal and other proceedings 2009: $4.0 million.
In the year to December 31, 2011 Shire recognized milestone income of $17.5 million 2010: $8.4 million: General 2009: $8.8 million in other revenues and $65.2 million 2010: The Company expenses legal costs as they are incurred.
The $51.1 million: 2009: $29.4 million in product sales for shipment Company recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable losses of product to the relevant licensee.
Where the estimated loss lies within a range the Company records a loss i Collaboration with Shionogi & Co. Limited Shionogi contingency provision, based on its best estimate of the probable loss.
for ADHD medicines in Japan Where no particular amount within that range is a better estimate than On November 18, 2011 Shire announced that it had entered into an any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
These estimates agreement with Shionogi to co-develop and co-commercialize certain are often developed substantially before the ultimate loss is known, so of Shires ADHD medicines in Japan.
Shionogi paid Shire an upfront estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information fee and will share costs with Shire in exchange for rights to jointly becomes known.
In instances where the Company is unable to co-develop and co-commercialize the products upon approval for the develop a reasonable estimate of loss, no litigation loss is recorded at Japanese market.
Shionogi is a leading Japanese pharmaceutical that time.
As information becomes known a loss provision is set up company with an expertise in developing medicines for the central when a reasonable estimate can be made.
The estimates are reviewed nervous system, among other therapeutic areas.
Working together quarterly and the estimates are changed when expectations are with the Shionogi team, Shire believes the path to regulatory approval, revised.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from the market development and commercialization for ADHD medicines Companys estimate may result in an additional expense or release will be more effective and efficient.
At December 31, 2011 provisions for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $36.9 million December 31, 2010: $33.8 million.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:13 Page 106 106 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 20 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued against Mylan in the US District Court for the District of West Virginia for infringement of certain of Shires INTUNIV patents and dismissed Specific the lawsuit in the Southern District of New York.
The filing of the lawsuit in West Virginia did not trigger a stay of approval of this ANDA.
VYVANSE A Markman hearing has been scheduled for June 7, 2012.
A trial is In May and June 2011, Shire was notified that six separate Abbreviated scheduled to start on September 16, 2013.
Shire was subsequently New Drug Applications ANDAs were submitted under the Hatchadvised that Mylan amended its ANDA to include the 1mg, 2mg and Waxman Act seeking permission to market generic versions of all 3mg strengths of INTUNIV and that Mylan is challenging one of Shires approved strengths of VYVANSE.
The notices were from Sandoz, Inc. INTUNIV patents that was not challenged as part of the originally filed Sandoz : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Amneal : Watson ANDA.
Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed another lawsuit Laboratories, Inc. : Roxane Laboratories, Inc. Roxane : Mylan against Mylan in the US District Court for the District of West Virginia.
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. : and Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Actavis Inc.
The filing of the second lawsuit triggered a stay of approval of the collectively, Actavis.
Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed ANDA for up to 30 months.
lawsuits for infringement of certain of Shires VYVANSE patents in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against each of Sandoz, In March 2011, Shire was notified that Sandoz had submitted an Roxane, Amneal and Actavis: in the US District Court for the Central ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market District of California against Watson Laboratories, Inc. : and in the US a generic version of the 4mg strength of INTUNIV.
Within the requisite District Court for the Eastern District of New York against Mylan 45-day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Mylan Inc. collectively Mylan.
On District of Colorado against Sandoz for infringement of certain of Shires December 9, 2011, the District Court of New Jersey consolidated the INTUNIV patents.
The filing of the lawsuit triggered a stay of approval Sandoz, Roxane, Amneal and Actavis cases.
On January 5, 2012, the of this ANDA for up to 30 months.
Shire was subsequently advised Watson case was transferred to the District Court of New Jersey and is that Sandoz amended its ANDA to include the 1mg, 2mg and 3mg presently a separate action.
The filing of the lawsuits triggered a stay of strengths of INTUNIV.
Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed approval of all six ANDAs for up to 30 months from the expiration of the another lawsuit against Sandoz in the US District Court for the District new chemical entity exclusivity.
In December 2011 and February 2012, of Colorado.
The filing of the lawsuit triggered a stay of approval Shire received additional notifications that Mylan had filed further of the 1mg, 2mg and 3mg strengths for up to 30 months.
No trial certifications challenging other VYVANSE patents listed in the Orange date has been set.
Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed a new law suit against Mylan, Johnson Matthey Pharmaceutical Materials and REPLAGAL Johnson Matthey Inc. in New Jersey.
No trial dates have been set.
Sinai School of Medicine of New York University Mt.
Sinai initiated lawsuits against Shire in Sweden on April 14, 2010, and in INTUNIV Germany on April 20, 2010, alleging that Shires enzyme replacement In March and April 2010, Shire was notified that three separate ANDAs therapy ERT for Fabry disease, REPLAGAL, infringes Mt.
Sinais were submitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission European Patent No.
Sinai to market generic versions of all approved strengths of INTUNIV.
sought injunctions against the use of REPLAGAL in these jurisdictions The notices were from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva until expiration of the patent.
Sinai has been granted Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd collectively, Teva : Actavis: and Supplementary Protection Certificates SPC in respect of the Anchen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Anchen, Inc. collectively, Anchen.
patent in certain EU countries including Sweden and Germany Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed lawsuits in the US District which, where granted, extends the patent until August 2016.
Court for the District of Delaware against each of Teva, Actavis and Where no SPC has been granted, the patent expires November 2013.
Anchen for infringement of certain of Shires INTUNIV patents.
The filing of the lawsuits triggered a stay of approval of these ANDAs for up Shire filed an opposition against Mt.
Sinais patent before the to 30 months.
These lawsuits have been consolidated.
A Markman European Patent Office EPO on July 23, 2010, and commenced hearing was held on February 14, 2012.
A trial is scheduled to begin invalidity proceedings in the UK on December 8, 2010.
Sinai has on September 17, 2012. counterclaimed alleging infringement in the UK proceedings.
A hearing date has not been set for the Swedish law suit.
The EPO opposition In October 2010, Shire was notified that two separate ANDAs were hearing was originally scheduled for March 2012 and has been resubmitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market scheduled for July 2012.
The UK invalidity and infringement hearing generic versions of the 4mg strength of INTUNIV.
The notices were date is scheduled for May 2012. from Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and from Impax Laboratories, Inc. Impax.
Shire was subsequently advised that Impax amended its On January 18, 2011, the German Court found that REPLAGAL ANDA to include the 1mg, 2mg and 3mg strengths of INTUNIV.
Sinais patent, and granted Mt.
Sinais request for an the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the US District injunction.
Shire has appealed this decision, but no hearing date has Court for the Northern District of California against each of Watson been set.
As a result of the supply shortage for the only other ERT for Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Watson Laboratories, Inc. -Florida, Watson Fabry Disease, Mt.
Sinai had undertaken not to enforce the injunction Pharma, Inc. ANDA, Inc. collectively Watson and Impax for in Germany prior to September 30, 2011.
Sinai infringement of certain of Shires INTUNIV patents.
The filing of the extended its undertaking until December 31, 2011.
On October 4, 2011, lawsuit triggered a stay of approval of these ANDAs for up to 30 Mt.
Sinai again extended its undertaking not to enforce the German months.
A Markman hearing has been scheduled for May 30, 2012. injunction until March 31, 2012 and on December 30, 2011, Mt.
Sinai No trial date has been set.
further extended this undertaking not to enforce the German injunction until June 30, 2012.
In February 2011, Shire was notified that Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version of the 4mg strength of INTUNIV.
Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York against Mylan for infringement of certain of Shires INTUNIV patents.
In April 2011, Shire filed a lawsuit Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 107 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 107 20 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued ADDERALL XR On November 1, 2010 Impax filed suit against Shire in the US District FOSRENOL Court for the Southern District of New York claiming that Shire is in In February 2009 Shire was notified that three separate ANDAs were breach of its supply contract for the authorized generic version of submitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market ADDERALL XR.
Shires ability to supply this product is limited by quota generic versions of all approved strengths of FOSRENOL.
The notices restrictions that the US Drug Enforcement Administration places on were received from Barr Laboratories, Inc. Barr : Mylan, Inc. Mylan amphetamine, which is the products active ingredient.
Impax is Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Matrix Laboratories, Inc. collectively, Mylanseeking specific performance, equitable relief and damages.
Shire Matrix : and Natco Pharma Limited Natco.
In December 2010, has filed a counterclaim against Impax seeking damages and a Shire was notified that Alkem Laboratories Ltd. Alkem submitted declaratory judgment that Shire has satisfied its obligations under an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market the supply contract.
A trial is scheduled for April 10, 2012. generic versions of all approved strengths of FOSRENOL.
Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed lawsuits in the US District Court for In February 2011, Shire was notified that Watson Laboratories, Inc. the Southern District of New York against each of Barr, Mylan-Matrix Watson Laboratories submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman and Natco and in both the US District Court for the Southern District Act seeking permission to market a generic version of all approved of New York and the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois strengths of ADDERALL XR.
This new ANDA is not covered under against Alkem for infringement of certain of Shires FOSRENOL patents.
the existing settlement agreements entered into in November 2007 In April 2011, Shire and Barr reached a settlement which provides between Shire and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. the Settlement Barr with a license to market its own generic version of FOSRENOL Agreements.
The Settlement Agreements cover a different ANDA and in the US but only after October 1, 2021, or earlier under certain do not provide any license for Watson Laboratories to sell the products circumstances.
No payments to Barr are involved with the settlement.
covered in Watson Laboratories new ANDA.
Within the requisite As a result of the settlement, the lawsuit against Barr was subsequently 45-day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the dismissed.
The lawsuits against both Mylan-Matrix and Alkem have Southern District of New York against Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. been dismissed, and consequently, each of Mylan-Matrix and Alkem Watson Laboratories, Inc. -Florida, Watson Pharm, Inc. Andrx may enter the market upon FDA approval of their respective versions Corporation, and Andrx Pharmaceuticals, L. L. C. for infringement of generic FOSRENOL.
No trial date has been set with respect to of certain of Shires ADDERALL XR patents and also for breach of Natco and a stay of approval of up to 30 months remains in effect.
contract in connection with the Settlement Agreements.
The filing of the lawsuit triggered a stay of approval of this ANDA for up LIALDA to 30 months.
A Markman hearing is scheduled for June 7, 2012.
In May 2010 Shire was notified that Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. No trial date has been set.
Zydus submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite Subpoena related to ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE 45-day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the On September 23, 2009 the Company received a civil subpoena from District of Delaware against Zydus and Cadila Healthcare Limited, the US Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector doing business as Zydus Cadila.
The filing of the lawsuit triggered a General in coordination with the US Attorney for the Eastern District stay of approval of the ANDA for up to 30 months.
A Markman hearing of Pennsylvania seeking production of documents related to the sales is scheduled for April 26, 2012.
A trial is scheduled for October 8, 2012. and marketing of ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE.
The investigation covers whether Shire engaged in off-label promotion In February 2012, Shire received a Paragraph IV Notice Letter from and other conduct that may implicate the civil False Claims Act.
Osmotica Pharmaceutical Corporation Osmotica advising of the Shire is co-operating fully with this investigation.
At this time, Shire filing of an ANDA for a generic version of LIALDA.
Shire is currently is unable to predict the outcome or duration of this investigation.
reviewing the details of Osmoticas Paragraph IV Notice Letter.
Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, Shire has 45 days from the receipt of the Notice Letter to determine if it will file a patent infringement suit.
If Shire brings a suit pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman regulations, a stay of approval of up to 30-months will be imposed by the FDA on Osmoticas ANDA.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 108 108 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS and liquidity funds in which Shire invests are all triple A rated by both Standard and Poors and by Moodys credit rating agencies.
Treasury policies and organization The Companys principal treasury operations are coordinated by its The Company is exposed to the credit risk of the counterparties with corporate treasury function.
All treasury operations are conducted which it enters into derivative instruments.
The Company limits this within a framework of policies and procedures approved annually by exposure through a system of internal credit limits which require the Board.
As a matter of policy, the Company does not undertake counterparties to have a long-term credit rating of AA3 or better from speculative transactions that would increase its currency or interest the major rating agencies.
The internal credit limits are approved by the rate exposure.
Board and exposure against these limits is monitored by the corporate treasury function.
The counterparties to these derivatives contracts Interest rate risk are major international financial institutions.
The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on restricted cash, cash and cash equivalents and on foreign exchange contracts on which The Companys revenues from product sales in the US are mainly interest is at floating rates.
This exposure is primarily to US dollar, governed by agreements with major pharmaceutical wholesalers and Pounds sterling and Euro interest rates.
As the Company maintains relationships with other pharmaceutical distributors and retail pharmacy all of its cash, liquid investments and foreign exchange contracts on a chains.
For the year to December 31, 2011 there were three customers short-term basis for liquidity purposes, this risk is not actively managed.
in the US that accounted for 49% of the Companys product sales.
In the year to December 31, 2011 the average interest rate received on However, such customers typically have significant cash resources and cash and liquid investments was less than 1% per annum.
The largest as such the risk from concentration of credit is considered acceptable.
proportion of these cash and liquid investments was in US dollar The Company has taken positive steps to manage any credit risk money market and liquidity funds.
associated with these transactions and operates clearly defined credit evaluation procedures.
However, an inability of one or more of these The Company incurs interest at a fixed rate of 2.75% on $1,100 million wholesalers to honor their debts to the Company could have an in principal amount convertible bonds, due 2014. adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
No derivative instruments were entered into during the year to A substantial portion of the Companys accounts receivable in December 31, 2011 to manage interest rate exposure.
The Company countries outside of the US is derived from product sales to continues to review its interest rate risk and the policies in place to government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers.
The Companys recovery of these accounts receivable is therefore dependent upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of the Credit risk relevant governments.
In 2011 the creditworthiness and general Financial instruments that potentially expose Shire to concentrations economic condition of a number of Eurozone countries including of credit risk consist primarily of short-term cash investments, trade Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, the Relevant Countries accounts receivable from product sales and from third parties from has continued to deteriorate.
As a result, in some of these which the Company receives royalties and derivative contracts.
Cash countries the Company is experiencing delays in the remittance is invested in short-term money market instruments, including money of receivables due from government-owned or government-supported market and liquidity funds and bank term deposits.
The money market healthcare providers.
The Companys aggregate accounts receivable, net of the allowance for doubtful accounts, in total and from government-owned or governmentsupported healthcare providers in the Relevant Countries are as follows: December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Total accounts receivable, net in the Relevant Countries 184 144 Total accounts receivable, net in the Relevant Countries as a percentage of total outstanding accounts receivable, net 22% 21% Accounts receivable, net due from government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers for the Relevant Countries 170 126 Accounts receivable due from government-owned or governmentOther than the GGBs principal amount $2.1 million, carrying value supported healthcare providers in the Relevant Countries of $0.7 million as at December 31, 2011 and accounts receivable from $170 million 2010: $126 million are split by country as follows: government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers Greece $4 million 2010: $8 million : Ireland $1 million 2010: $1 million : outlined above, the Company does not hold any other government Italy $81 million 2010: $60 million : Portugal $14 million 2010: debt from the Relevant Countries.
Additionally the Company does $5 million and Spain $70 million 2010: $52 million.
not consider it is currently exposed to significant sovereign credit risk outside of the Relevant Countries.
In 2011 the Company received $193 million in settlement of accounts receivable in the Relevant Countries$11 million was from Greece The Company continues to evaluate all its accounts receivable for including $2.1 million in the form of Greek Government Bonds potential collection risks and has made provision for amounts where GGBs : $18 million from Ireland: $94 million from Italy: $5 million collection is considered to be doubtful.
If the financial condition of from Portugal and $65 million from Spain.
the Relevant Countries or other Eurozone countries suffer significant deterioration, such that their ability to make payments becomes To date the Company has not incurred significant losses on the uncertain, or if one or more Eurozone member countries withdraws accounts receivable in the Relevant Countries, and continues from the Euro, additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be to consider that such accounts receivable are recoverable.
required, and losses may be incurred, in future periods.
Any such loss could have an adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 109 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 109 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued to inter company financing, accruals for royalty receipts and specific external receivables.
The foreign exchange contracts have not been Foreign exchange risk designated as hedging instruments.
Cash flows from derivative The Company trades in numerous countries and as a consequence instruments are presented within net cash provided by operating has transactional and translational foreign exchange exposures.
activities in the consolidated cash flow statement, unless the derivative instruments are economically hedging specific investing Transactional exposure arises where transactions occur in currencies or financing activities.
different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
The main trading currencies of the Company are the US dollar, Pounds sterling, Translational foreign exchange exposure arises on the translation Swiss franc and the Euro.
It is the Companys policy that these into US dollars of the financial statements of non-US dollar functional exposures are minimized to the extent practicable by denominating subsidiaries.
transactions in the subsidiarys functional currency.
At December 31, 2011 the Company had 20 swap and forward foreign Where significant exposures remain, the Company uses foreign exchange contracts outstanding to manage currency risk.
The swaps exchange contracts being spot, forward and swap contracts to and forward contracts mature within 90 days.
The Company did not manage the exposure for balance sheet assets and liabilities that are have credit risk related contingent features or collateral linked to the denominated in currencies different to the functional currency of the derivatives.
At December 31, 2011 the fair value of these contracts relevant subsidiary.
These assets and liabilities relate predominantly was a net asset of $3.0 million.
Further details are included below: Fair value Fair value December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Assets: Prepaid expenses and other current assets 3.4 3.7 Liabilities: Other current liabilities 0.4 2.7 Net gains both realized and unrealized arising on foreign exchange contracts have been classified in the consolidated statements of income as follows: Location of net gain Amount of net gain recognized in income recognized in income December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 Year to $M $M Foreign exchange contracts Other income, net 21.3 24.8 These net foreign exchange gains are offset within Other income, net by net foreign exchange gains losses arising on the balance sheet items that these contracts were put in place to manage.
22 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 the following financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and significant unobservable inputs Level 3.
Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At December 31, 2011 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available for sale securities 7.4 7.4 7.4 2 Contingent consideration receivable 37.8 37.8 37.8 Foreign exchange contracts 3.4 3.4 3.4 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 0.4 0.4 0.4 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At December 31, 2010 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available for sale securities 83.9 83.9 83.9 2 Contingent consideration receivable 61.0 61.0 61.0 Foreign exchange contracts 3.7 3.7 3.7 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 2.7 2.7 2.7 1 Available for sale securities are included within Investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
2 Contingent consideration receivable is included within Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheet.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 110 110 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 22 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT continuedContingent consideration receivablethe fair value of the contingent consideration receivable has been estimated using the income Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair approach using a discounted cash flow method.
The fair value amounts shown above are not cash flow approach uses significant unobservable inputs, such necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company would realize as future sales of the divested product, relevant contractual royalty upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Companys intent or ability rates, an appropriate discount rate and assumed weightings applied to dispose of the financial instrument.
to scenarios used in deriving a probability weighted fair value.
Foreign exchange contractsthe fair values of the swap and The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the forward foreign exchange contracts have been determined using fair value of each material class of financial instrument: an income approach based on current market expectations about Available for sale securitiesthe fair values of available for sale the future cash flows.
securities are estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
Assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 The change in the fair value of the Companys contingent consideration receivable, which is measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs Level 3, is as follows: Contingent consideration receivable 2011 $M Balance at January 1, 61.0 Loss recognized in the income statement due to change in fair value during the period 6.0 Reclassification of amounts due from Noven to Other receivables within Other current assets 16.5 Foreign exchange translation recorded to other comprehensive income 0.7 Balance at December 31, 37.8 Assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 In the year to December 31, 2011 the Company reviewed certain of its indefinite lived IPR&D intangible assets IPR&D assets for impairment and recognized an impairment charge of $16.0 million, recorded within R&D in the consolidated income statement, to write down these IPR&D assets to their fair value.
The fair value of these IPR&D assets was determined using the income approach, which used significant unobservable Level 3 inputs.
These unobservable inputs included, inter alia, risk-adjusted forecast future cash flows to be generated by these IPR&D assets, contributory asset charges for other assets employed in these IPR&D projects and the determination of an appropriate discount rate to be applied in calculating the present value of forecast future cash flows.
The fair value of these IPR&D assets, determined at the time of the impairment review, was $108.0 million.
Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis The carrying amounts and estimated fair values as at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 of the Companys financial assets and liabilities which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis are as follows: December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value $M $M $M $M Financial liabilities: Convertible bonds 1,100.0 1,309.7 1,100.0 1,139.8 Building financing obligation 8.2 9.7 8.4 8.2 Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The fair value amounts shown above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Companys intent or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: Convertible bondsthe fair value of Shires $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 is determined by reference to the market price of the instrument as the convertible bonds are publicly traded.
Building finance obligationsthe fair value of building finance obligations are estimated based on the present value of future cash flows, and an estimate of the residual value of the underlying property at the end of the lease term, associated with these obligations.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses materially approximate to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these amounts.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 111 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 111 23 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY The ADS Depositary has made an election on behalf of all holders of ADSs such that they will receive dividends from Old Shire under Authorized common stock the income access share arrangements.
Dividends paid by Old Shire The authorized stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2011 was under the income access share arrangements will not, under current 1,000,000,000 Ordinary Shares and two subscriber Ordinary Shares.
legislation, be subject to any UK or Irish withholding taxes.
If a holder of ADSs does not wish to receive dividends from Old Shire under the Dividends income access share arrangements, she he must withdraw his her Under Jersey law, Shire plc is entitled to make payments of dividends Ordinary Shares from the ADS program prior to the dividend record from its accumulated profits and other distributable reserves.
date set by the Depositary and request delivery of the Shire plc At December 31, 2011 Shire plcs distributable reserves were Ordinary Shares.
This will enable him her to receive dividends from approximately $9.5 billion.
Shire plc if necessary, by making an election to that effect.
Treasury stock It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that Old Shire The Company records the purchase of its own shares by the ESOT will distribute dividends on the income access share to the Trustee as a reduction of shareholders equity based on the price paid for the for the benefit of all ordinary shareholders who make or are deemed shares.
At December 31, 2011, the ESOT held 4.6 million Ordinary to make an income access share election in an amount equal to what Shares 2010: 4.4 million: 2009: 5.8 million and 2.4 million ADSs 2010: would have been such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends 3.2 million: 2009: 4.0 million.
During the year to December 31, 2011 from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election.
a total of 2.7 million 2010: 0.02 million: 2009: 0.1 million Ordinary If any dividend paid on the income access share and or paid to the Shares and 0.8 million 2010: 0.02 million: 2009: 0.02 million ADSs ordinary shareholders is less than such ordinary shareholders had been purchased for total consideration of $151.8 million 2010: entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income $1.7 million: 2009: $1.0 million, including stamp duty and broker access share election, the dividend on the income access share will commission.
be allocated pro rata among the ordinary shareholders and Shire plc will pay the balance to these ordinary shareholders by way of dividend.
Income Access Share Arrangements IAS Trust In such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire plc in Shire has put into place income access arrangements which respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those enable Shire ordinary shareholders, other than Shire ADS holders, ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including any to choose whether they receive their dividends from Shire a company Irish withholding tax consequences.
resident for tax purposes in the Republic of Ireland or from Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Old Shire, a Shire group company Shire will be able to suspend or terminate these arrangements at resident for tax purposes in the UK.
any time, in which case the full Shire plc dividend will be paid directly by Shire plc to those ordinary shareholders including the Depositary Old Shire has issued one income access share to the Income Access who have made or are deemed to have made an income access Trust the IAS Trust which is held by the trustee of the IAS Trust share election.
In such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by the Trustee.
The mechanics of the arrangements are as follows: Shire plc in respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including If a dividend is announced or declared by Shire plc on its Ordinary any Irish withholding tax consequences.
Shares, an amount is paid by Old Shire by way of a dividend on the income access share to the Trustee, and such amount is paid by the In the year ended December 31, 2011 Old Shire paid dividends Trustee to ordinary shareholders who have elected or are deemed totaling $67.6 million 2010: $58.3 million: 2009: $45.9 million on to have elected to receive dividends under these arrangements.
the income access share to the Trustee in an amount equal to the The dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc to its dividend ordinary shareholders would have received from Shire plc.
ordinary shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to its ordinary shareholders by the Trustee.
If the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders is less than the total amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire plc on its Ordinary Shares, Shire plc will be obliged to pay a dividend on the relevant Ordinary Shares equivalent to the amount of the shortfall.
In such a case, any dividend paid on the Ordinary Shares will generally be subject to Irish withholding tax at the rate of 20% or such lower rate as may be applicable under exemptions from withholding tax contained in Irish law.
An ordinary shareholder is entitled to make an income access share election such that she he will receive his her dividends which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc under these arrangements from Old Shire.
An ordinary shareholder who holds 25,000 or fewer Ordinary Shares at the first record date after she he first becomes an ordinary shareholder, and who does not make a contrary election, will be deemed to have made an election pursuant to the Shire plc articles of association such that she he will receive his her dividends under these arrangements from Old Shire.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 112 112 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 24 EARNINGS PER SHARE The following table reconciles net income and the weighted average Ordinary Shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented: 2011 2010 2009 $M $M $M Amounts attributable to Shire plc shareholders Income from continuing operations, net of taxes 865.0 588.0 503.8 Loss from discontinued operations 12.4 Net loss attributable to non controlling interest in subsidiaries 0.2 Numerator for basic earnings per share 865.0 588.0 491.6 1 Interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 33.6 33.5 Numerator for diluted earnings per share 898.6 621.5 491.6 Millions Millions Millions Weighted average number of shares: 2 Basic 551.1 546.2 540.7 Effect of dilutive shares: 3 Share-based awards to employees 10.9 10.9 7.3 4 Convertible bonds 2.75% due 2014 33.4 33.2 Diluted 595.4 590.3 548.0 1 For the year to December 31, 2009 interest on the convertible bonds has not been added back as the effect would be anti dilutive.
2 Excludes shares purchased by the ESOT and presented by the Company as treasury stock.
3 Calculated using the treasury stock method.
4 Calculated using the if-converted method.
Year to December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Earnings per Ordinary Sharebasic Earnings from continuing operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 156.9 107.7 93.2 Loss from discontinued operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 2.3 Earnings per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plc shareholdersbasic 156.9 107.7 90.9 Earnings per Ordinary Sharediluted Earnings from continuing operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 150.9 105.3 91.9 Loss from discontinued operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 2.2 Earnings per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plc shareholdersdiluted 150.9 105.3 89.7 The share equivalents not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares are shown below: 2011 2010 2009 Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares Millions Millions Millions 1 Share awards 2.9 5.4 16.4 2 Convertible bonds 2.75% due 2014 33.2 1 Certain stock options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because a their exercise prices exceeded Shire plcs average share price during the calculation period or b satisfaction of the required performance market conditions cannot be measured until the conclusion of the performance period.
2 For the year to December 31, 2009 the Ordinary Shares underlying the convertible bonds have not been included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti dilutive.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 113 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 113 25 SEGMENTAL REPORTING Shires internal financial reporting is in line with its business unit and management reporting structure.
In the year to December 31, 2011, following the acquisition of ABH, an organizational realignment was carried out.
Following this reorganization the Company now has three business units and three segments: SP, HGT and RM.
The RM segment currently comprises the ABH business.
The SP, HGT and RM reportable segments represent the Companys revenues and costs for currently promoted and sold products, together with the costs of developing projects for future commercialization.
All Other has been included in the table below in order to reconcile the three segments to the total consolidated figures.
The Company evaluates performance based on revenue and operating income.
The Company does not have inter-segment transactions.
Assets that are directly attributable or allocable to the segments have been separately disclosed.
SP HGT RM All Other Total 2011 $M $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,615.6 1,229.3 105.3 3,950.2 Royalties 199.6 83.9 283.5 Other revenues 24.5 1.2 4.0 29.7 Total revenues 2,839.7 1,230.5 105.3 87.9 4,263.4 1 Cost of product sales 351.7 200.0 36.4 588.1 1 Research and development 449.1 315.4 6.2 770.7 1 Selling, general and administrative 1,131.3 340.6 64.4 215.1 1,751.4 Loss on sale of product rights 6.0 6.0 Reorganization costs 11.8 12.5 24.3 Integration and acquisition costs 0.1 13.6 13.7 Total operating expenses 1,950.0 856.0 120.6 227.6 3,154.2 Operating income loss 889.7 374.5 15.3 139.7 1,109.2 Total assets 2,421.7 1,849.4 967.7 1,141.4 6,380.2 2 Long-lived assets 126.8 720.8 22.9 63.2 933.7 2 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 54.4 129.4 1.5 18.9 204.2 1 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $39.8 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $25.2 million and impairment of IPR&D intangible assets in the SP reporting segment $16.0 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation and amortization $228.1 million is included in Selling, general and administrative.
2 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments, income tax receivable and financial instruments.
SP HGT RM All Other Total 2010 $M $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,219.2 909.0 3,128.2 Royalties 173.3 154.8 328.1 Other revenues 7.1 2.6 5.1 14.8 Total revenues 2,399.6 911.6 159.9 3,471.1 1 Cost of product sales 332.1 129.3 2.0 463.4 1 Research and development 348.9 312.2 0.4 661.5 1 Selling, general and administrative 1,035.8 297.7 192.8 1,526.3 Gain on sale of product rights 16.5 16.5 Reorganization costs 13.0 21.3 34.3 Integration and acquisition costs 8.0 8.0 Total operating expenses 1,721.3 739.2 216.5 2,677.0 Operating income loss 678.3 172.4 56.6 794.1 Total assets 2,483.5 1,786.9 1,117.2 5,387.6 2 Long-lived assets 154.7 655.4 47.3 857.4 2 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 21.8 281.1 12.9 315.8 1 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $38.1 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $19.0 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation, amortization and impairment charges $238.3 million is included in Selling, general and administrative.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 114 114 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 25 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued SP HGT RM All Other Total 2009 $M $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,138.2 555.5 2,693.7 Royalties 127.2 165.3 292.5 Other revenues 9.9 2.6 9.0 21.5 Total revenues 2,275.3 558.1 174.3 3,007.7 1 Cost of product sales 299.3 88.7 388.0 1 Research and development 375.0 258.8 6.1 638.3 1 Selling, general and administrative 954.4 208.7 179.5 1,342.6 Gain on sale of product rights 6.3 6.3 Reorganization costs 12.7 12.7 Integration and acquisition costs 2.9 7.7 10.6 Total operating expenses 1,638.0 563.9 185.6 2,387.5 Operating income loss 637.3 5.8 11.3 620.2 Total assets 2,067.1 1,576.1 974.3 4,617.5 2 Long-lived assets 202.6 422.4 55.6 680.6 2 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 46.9 194.4 18.0 259.3 1 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $21.8 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $15.5 million is included in research and development: and all other depreciation and amortization $204.7 million is included in selling, general and administrative.
2 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred tax assets, investments, income tax receivable and financial instruments.
Geographic information Revenues based on the geographic location from which the sale originated : 2011 2010 2009 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Ireland 21.1 21.1 19.5 United Kingdom 219.9 203.9 163.9 North America 2,867.1 2,333.1 2,141.3 Rest of World 1,155.3 913.0 683.0 Total revenues 4,263.4 3,471.1 3,007.7 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments based on the geographic location within which the economic benefits arise: 2011 2010 Year to December 31, $M $M Ireland 2.9 United Kingdom 73.7 70.9 North America 841.0 777.8 Rest of World 16.1 8.7 Total 933.7 857.4 Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 115 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 115 25 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued Material customers In the periods set out below, certain customers, all within the SP operating segment, accounted for greater than 10% of the Companys product revenues: 2011 2011 2010 2010 2009 2009 Year to December 31, $M % revenue $M % revenue $M % revenue Cardinal Health Inc. 923.9 23 791.2 25 797.0 27 McKesson Corp. 742.9 19 574.3 19 576.3 19 Amounts outstanding as at December 31, in respect of these material customers were as follows: 2011 2010 December 31, $M $M Cardinal Health Inc. 172.1 143.3 McKesson Corp. 101.4 93.0 Revenue by product In the periods set out below, revenues by major product were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 $M $M $M SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS VYVANSE 805.0 634.2 504.7 ADDERALL XR 532.8 360.8 626.5 INTUNIV 223.0 165.9 5.4 EQUASYM 19.9 22.0 22.8 DAYTRANA 49.4 71.0 LIALDA MEZAVANT 372.1 293.4 235.9 PENTASA 251.4 235.9 214.8 RESOLOR 6.1 0.3 FOSRENOL 166.9 182.1 184.4 XAGRID 90.6 87.3 84.8 CARBATROL 52.3 82.3 82.4 Other 95.5 105.6 105.5 2,615.6 2,219.2 2,138.2 HUMAN GENETIC THERAPIES REPLAGAL 475.2 351.3 193.8 ELAPRASE 464.9 403.6 353.1 VPRIV 256.2 143.0 2.5 FIRAZYR 33.0 11.1 6.1 1,229.3 909.0 555.5 REGENERATIVE MEDICINE DERMAGRAFT 105.3 105.3 3,950.2 3,128.2 2,693.7 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 116 116 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 26 OTHER INCOME EXPENSE, NET 2011 2010 2009 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Gain on sale of non-current investments see Note 11 23.5 11.1 55.2 Loss on extinguishment gain on substantial modification of building finance obligation see Note 18 3.6 5.7 Other 5.4 0.4 0.2 18.1 7.9 60.7 27 RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Company makes contributions to defined contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
The level of the Companys contribution is fixed at a set percentage of employees pay.
Company contributions to personal defined contribution pension plans totaled $44.4 million, $31.8 million and $27.9 million for the years to December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and were charged to operations as they became payable.
28 TAXATION The components of pre tax income from continuing operations are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Republic of Ireland 65.9 170.0 232.3 UK 45.3 35.4 62.8 US 747.6 745.5 552.2 Other jurisdictions 363.1 158.4 260.3 1,090.1 769.3 643.0 The provision for income taxes by location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years to December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 consisted of the following: 2011 2010 2009 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Current income taxes: Republic of Ireland 1.8 US federal tax 193.1 176.4 154.3 US state and local taxes 9.0 6.6 14.4 Other 40.0 25.9 16.8 Total current taxes 240.3 208.9 185.5 Deferred taxes: Republic of Ireland 1.0 US federal tax 22.5 6.0 24.5 US state and local taxes 4.6 9.8 32.2 UK corporation tax 1.0 0.1 6.1 Other 29.6 10.3 4.6 Total deferred taxes 12.7 26.2 47.0 1 Total income taxes 227.6 182.7 138.5 1 Total income taxes relate solely to continuing operations as there is no tax provision benefit relating to discontinued operations for the years to December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 117 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 117 28 TAXATION continued The reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes, non controlling interests and equity in earnings losses of equity method investees at the statutory tax rate to the provision for income taxes is shown in the table below: 2011 2010 2009 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of equity method investees 1,090.1 769.3 643.0 1 Statutory tax rate 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% Adjustments to derive effective rate: Non-deductable items: US R&D credit 4.7% 5.7% 5.2% Effect of the convertible bond 0.8% 1.8% 2.0% 2 Intangible asset amortization 0.1% 3 Intra-group items 7.7% 12.0% 11.8% Other permanent items 0.4% 0.8% 2.2% Other items: Change in valuation allowance 2.1% 5.1% 1.3% Difference in taxation rates 4.5% 11.0% 8.5% Change in provisions for uncertain tax positions 1.3% 2.2% 2.3% Prior year adjustment 0.8% 4.2% 2.7% Change in tax rates 1.4% 1.9% Other 0.4% 0.2% 2.1% Provision for income taxes on continuing operations 20.9% 23.8% 21.5% 1 In addition to being subject to the Irish Corporation tax rate of 25%, in 2011 the Company is also subject to income tax in other territories in which the Company operates, including: Canada 16.5% : France 33.3% : Germany 15% : Italy 27.5% : Luxembourg 21.0% : Malta 35% : the Netherlands 25.5% : Belgium 33.99% : Spain 30% : Sweden 26.3% : Switzerland 8.5% : United Kingdom 26.3% and the US 35%.
The rates quoted represent the headline federal income tax rates in each territory, and do not include any state taxes or equivalents or surtaxes or other taxes charged in individual territories, and do not purport to represent the effective tax rate for the Company in each territory.
2 The permanent difference results from tax deductible amortization available following inter company asset transfers for which the recognition of a deferred tax asset is prohibited.
3 Intra-group items principally relate to the effect of inter company dividends, capital receipts either taxable or non-taxable and other intra-territory eliminations, the pre tax effect of which has been eliminated in arriving at the Companys consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes, non controlling interests and equity in earnings losses of equity method investees.
4 Certain of our activities operate under a tax holiday which is effective through December 2021.
The impact of the tax holiday is to reduce the effective tax rate by 1.7% during 2011 2010: increase in the effective tax rate by 0.2%: 2009: nil effect.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Company files income tax returns in the Republic of Ireland, the UK, the US both federal and state and various other jurisdictions see footnote 1 to the table above for major jurisdictions.
With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 1999.
Tax authorities in various jurisdictions are in the process of auditing the Companys tax returns for fiscal periods from 1999: these tax audits cover a range of issues, including transfer pricing, potential restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses, potential taxation of overseas dividends and controlled foreign companies rules.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 $M $M $M Balance at January 1, 290.8 254.0 228.7 Increases based on tax positions related to the current year 18.2 12.4 4.2 Decreases based on tax positions taken in the current year 2.5 1.7 0.2 Increases for tax positions taken in prior years 1.4 18.0 25.2 Decreases for tax positions taken in prior years 12.0 3.2 19.4 Decreases resulting from settlements with the taxing authorities 25.7 6.5 16.1 Decreases as a result of expiration of the statute of limitations 0.5 1 Foreign currency translation adjustments 4.2 17.8 31.6 2 Balance at December 31, 265.5 290.8 254.0 1 Recognized within Other comprehensive income.
2 The full amount of which would affect the effective rate if recognized.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 118 118 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 28 TAXATION continued The Company is required in certain tax jurisdictions to make advance deposits to tax authorities on receipt of a tax assessment.
These The Company considers it reasonably possible that the total amount payments have been offset against the income tax liability within the of unrecognized tax benefits recorded at December 31, 2011 will balance sheet but have not reduced the provision for unrecognized not materially decrease in the next twelve months as a result of the tax benefits.
conclusion of audits currently being conducted by various tax authorities.
While tax audits remain open, the Company also considers The Company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related it reasonably possible that issues may be raised by tax authorities to unrecognized tax benefits within income taxes.
During the years resulting in increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits, ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized however an estimate of such an increase cannot be made.
$4.0 million, $1.0 million and $21.3 million in interest and penalties and the Company had a liability of $114.5 million and $110.5 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Deferred taxes The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities and their balance sheet classifications, as at December 31, are as follows: December 31, December 31, 2011 2010 $M $M Deferred tax assets: Deferred revenue 6.0 9.2 Inventory and warranty provisions 43.3 33.1 Losses carried forward including tax credits 384.8 314.3 Provisions for sales deductions and doubtful accounts 119.5 101.3 Restructuring 0.7 1.1 Intangible assets 44.0 14.7 Share-based compensation 34.8 42.5 Excess of tax value over book value of fixed assets 24.3 Other 34.1 28.6 Gross deferred tax assets 667.2 569.1 Less: valuation allowance 211.8 200.0 455.4 369.1 Deferred tax liabilities: Intangible assets 691.5 433.2 Excess of book value over tax value of assets 22.2 Net deferred tax liabilities 258.3 64.1 Balance sheet classifications: Deferred tax assetscurrent 207.6 182.0 Deferred tax assetsnon-current 50.7 110.4 Deferred tax liabilitiescurrent 4.4 Deferred tax  516.6 352.1 258.3 64.1 At December 31, 2011, the Company had a valuation allowance of At December 31, 2011, based upon a consideration in combination $211.8 million 2010: $200.0 million to reduce its deferred tax assets of the profit history of the relevant affiliates, projections of future to estimated realizable value.
These valuation allowances related taxable income over the periods in which temporary differences are primarily to operating loss, capital loss and tax-credit carry-forwards anticipated to reverse, any restrictions on uses of loss carry-forwards in Ireland 2011: $68.5 million: 2010: $77.2 million : the US 2011: and prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies, management believes $33.9 million: 2010: $44.5 million : Germany 2011: $80.7 million: it is more likely than not that the Company will realize the benefits of 2010: $49.0 million : and other foreign tax jurisdictions 2011: these deductible differences, net of the valuation allowances.
the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if these factors are revised in future periods.
The net increase in valuation allowances of $11.8 million is principally due to increases of losses and other temporary differences in European jurisdictions, as the Companys management considers that there is insufficient future taxable income, taxable temporary differences and feasible tax-planning strategies to overcome cumulative losses and therefore it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets will not be realized in full.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 119 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 119 28 TAXATION continued The approximate tax effect of NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards as at December 31, are as follows: 2011 2010 $M $M US federal tax NOLs 45.3 14.7 US state tax NOLs 19.8 16.6 UK NOLs 24.8 30.4 Republic of Ireland NOLs 58.0 66.0 Foreign tax jurisdictions 174.7 80.4 R&D tax credits 62.1 106.2 The approximate gross value of NOLs and capital losses at December 31, 2011 is $1,610.1 million 2010: $1,178.3 million.
The tax effected NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards shown above have the following expiration dates: December 31, 2011 $M Within 1 year 0.1 Within 2 to 3 years 0.8 Within 3 to 4 years 1.1 Within 4 to 5 years 1.8 Within 5 to 6 years 3.3 After 6 years 115.4 Indefinitely 262.2 We do not provide for deferred taxes on the excess of the financial reporting over the tax basis in our investments in foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration.
At December 31, 2011, that excess totaled $6.2 billion 2010: $5.8 billion.
The determination of the additional deferred taxes that have not been provided is not practicable.
29 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS The following table shows the total share-based compensation expense see below for types of share-based awards included in the consolidated statements of income: 2011 2010 2009 $M $M $M Cost of product sales 8.8 7.0 4.4 Research and development 21.8 16.8 20.1 Selling, general and administrative 45.1 38.4 41.2 Total 75.7 62.2 65.7 Less tax 23.6 17.2 19.4 52.1 45.0 46.3 There were no capitalized share-based compensation costs at December 31, 2011 and 2010.
At December 31, 2011 $114.1 million 2010: $94.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested awards is expected to be recognized over a period of three years.
At December 31, 2011 $100.0 million 2010: $73.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested in the money awards based on the average share price during the year is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years 2010: 1.8 years.
The total fair value of in the money awards vested during the year to December 31, 2011 was $87.4 million 2010: $49.3 million.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 120 120 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 29 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued The Amendments had the following principal effect on the terms and conditions of SARs and PSAs: i the contractual life of SARs has been Share-based compensation plans extended from five to seven years, ii the vesting period of SARs and The Company grants stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs PSAs granted to employees below the level of Executive Vice President and performance share awards over Ordinary Shares and ADSs to allows for graded vesting rather than mandatory cliff vesting, and iii Executive Directors and employees under the Shire Portfolio Share awards granted to Executive Directors contain performance conditions Plan Parts A and B.
In 2010 the Company amended the rules of the based on growth in adjusted return on invested capital Adjusted ROIC Shire Portfolio Share Plan effective on a prospective basis for newly and earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization granted awards the Amendment.
After the Amendment SARs as defined in the Amendments Non GAAP EBITDA, rather than the and PSAs granted under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Part A & B previous market based condition of total shareholder return.
to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
The Company also operates an Employee Share Purchase Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
The following awards were outstanding as at December 31, 2011: Expiration Compensation Number period from type of awards date of issue Vesting period Portfolio Share PlanPart A SARs 21,600,470 5 to 7 years 3 years cliff or graded vesting, subject to market or performance criteria for Executive Directors only Sharesave Scheme Stock options 328,746 6 months 3 or 5 years after vesting Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 793,706 On vesting 1 to 5 years date Legacy Plans Stock options 675,526 7 to 10 years 3 to 10 years, subject to market or performance criteria Stock-settled SARs and 23,398,448 stock options Portfolio Share PlanPart B Performance 5,709,744 3 years 3 years cliff or graded vesting, share awards subject to market or performance criteria for Executive Directors only Performance share awards 5,709,744 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
Stock-settled SARs and stock options In respect of any award made to Executive Directors subsequent to Amendments performance criteria are based on Non GAAP EBITDA a Portfolio Share PlanPart A and Adjusted ROIC targets.
These performance measures provide Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio increased alignment to the core activities and strategy of the Company.
Share PlanPart A prior to the Amendments are exercisable, subject to certain market and service criteria.
Stock-settled share Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share PlanPart A not subject to market or performance conditions and are only subject subsequent to the Amendments are exercisable, subject to to service conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the fifth In respect of any awards made to Executive Directors prior to the anniversary for awards granted prior to the Amendments or seventh Amendments, the market conditions are based on relative total anniversary for awards granted subsequent to the Amendments shareholder return.
Vesting of awards granted to Executive Directors of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one third of the award, the comparator b Shire Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an excluding financial institutions and for two thirds of the award the exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before comparator group will be a group of international companies from the invitations are issued to employees.
Employees may enter into three or pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive five-year savings contracts.
Directors will vest, the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify this.
c Shire Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan 1 Where median performance is achieved, 33 3% of stock-settled share Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment at upper quartile performance.
date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
Employees agree to save for a period up to 27 months.
Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 121 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 121 29 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued d Legacy plansPrincipally the Shire 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Options granted under this scheme were subject to certain performance criteria, which were based on the Companys share price or diluted EPS growth compared to a fixed growth rate.
At December 31, 2011 all stock options outstanding under this scheme had met the required conditions and were exercisable.
A summary of the status of the Companys SARs and stock options as at December 31, 2011 and of the related transactions during the period then ended is presented below: Weighted average Number exercise price of shares intrinsic value Year to December 31, 2011 M Outstanding as at beginning of period 10.36 29,545,584 Granted 17.84 7,551,373 Exercised 7.71 12,459,335 Expired 12.26 1,239,174 Outstanding as at end of period 12.83 23,398,448 224.7 Exercisable as at end of period 8.39 4,384,592 61.6 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
The weighted average grant date fair value of SARs and stock options granted in the year ended December 31, 2011 was 4.68.
SARs and stock options outstanding as at December 31, 2011 have the following characteristics: Weighted average Weighted average Weighted average exercise price Number exercise price Exercise remaining of awards of awards of awards prices contractual term outstanding exercisable exercisable Number of awards outstanding Years 622,621 3.387.00 4.7 5.41 595,648 5.3 11,780,747 7.0114.00 3.7 8.21 2,909,836 7.2 10,995,080 14.0121.24 5.7 16.8 879,108 14.6 23,398,448 4,384,592 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
Performance shares of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee Portfolio Share PlanPart B must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company Performance share awards granted to Executive Directors under the is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 1 Portfolio Share PlanPart B are exercisable subject to certain market, 33 3% of performance shares will vest, rising on a straight-line basis performance and service criteria.
to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
In respect of any award granted to Executive Directors prior to the In respect of any award granted to Executive Directors subsequent Amendments the market conditions are based on relative total to the Amendments, the performance criteria are based on Non GAAP shareholder return.
Vesting will depend on relative total shareholder EBITDA and Adjusted ROIC targets.
return performance against two comparator groups.
For one third of an award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are not Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and subject to market or performance conditions and are only subject for two thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group to service conditions.
A summary of the status of the Companys performance share awards as at December 31, 2011 and of the related transactions during the period then ended is presented below: Aggregate Weighted average Number intrinsic value remaining life Performance share awards of shares M Years Outstanding as at beginning of period 6,391,007 Granted 1,885,525 Exercised 2,299,295 Expired 267,493 Outstanding as at end of period 5,709,744 128.1 1.5 Exercisable as at end of period n a n a Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 122 122 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 29 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued be dependent on the number of employee share awards granted and exercised during the year and Shire plcs share price.
At December 31, The weighted average grant date fair value of performance share 2011 the ESOT held 4.6 million Ordinary Shares and 2.4 million ADSs.
awards granted in the year to December 31, 2011 is 18.04.
Valuation methodologies Exercises of employee share-based awards The Company estimates the fair value of its share-based awards using a The total intrinsic values of share-based awards exercised for the Black-Scholes valuation model.
Key input assumptions used to estimate years to December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $189.3 million, the fair value of sharebased awards include the grant price of the $70.3 million and $43.8 million, respectively.
The total cash received award, the expected stock-based award term, volatility of the from employees as a result of employee share option exercises for Companys share price, the risk-free rate and the Companys dividend the period to December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately yield.
The Company believes that the valuation technique and the $13.4 million, $11.2 million and $14.6 million, respectively.
In connection approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate with these exercises, the excess tax benefit credited to additional in estimating the fair values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates paid-in capital for the years to December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the was $29.4 million, $2.9 million and $16.8 million respectively.
value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the The Company will settle future employee share award exercises with original estimates of fair value made by the Company under guidance either newly listed common shares or with shares held in the ESOT.
issued by the FASB on share-based payment transactions.
The number of shares to be purchased by the ESOT during 2012 will The fair value of share awards granted was estimated using the following assumptions: Period ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 1 Risk-free interest rate 0.12.5% 0.53.0% 0.52.7% Expected dividend yield 00.5% 00.6% 00.7% Expected life 15 years 15 years 34 years Volatility 1933% 2232% 3133% Forfeiture rate 57% 57% 5% 1 Risk-free interest rate is for UK and US grants.
The following assumptions were used to value share-based awards:expected lifeestimated based on the contractual term of the awards and the effects of employees expected exercise and postrisk-free interest rateFor awards granted over ADSs, the US vesting employment termination behavior: Federal Reserve treasury constant maturities rate with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used.
For awardsexpected volatilitymeasured using historical daily price changes granted over Ordinary Shares, the yield on UK government bonds of the Companys share price over the respective expected life of the with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used: share-based awards at the date of the award: and expected dividend yieldmeasured as the average annualizedthe forfeiture rate is estimated using historical trends of the number dividend estimated to be paid by the Company over the expected life of awards forfeited prior to vesting.
of the award as a percentage of the share price at the grant date: 30 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES All subsidiary undertakings of Shire plc are 100% beneficially owned directly or indirectly and are all consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of Shire plc.
Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation 3829359 Canada Inc. Canada Advanced Biohealing, Inc. United States Jerini Holding Limited Malta Jerini Ophthalmic Holding GmbH Germany Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc. United States Jerini Trading Limited Malta JPT Peptide Technologies, Inc. United States Monmouth Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Movetis GmbH Germany Movetis Limited United Kingdom Pharma International Insurance Limited Ireland Rybar Laboratories Limited United Kingdom SHGT Executive Services, Inc. United States Shire 2005 Investments Limited Cayman Islands Shire Acquisition, Inc. Canada Shire Acquisitions Ireland Limited Ireland Shire AG Switzerland Shire Australia Pty Limited Australia Shire Belgium BVBA Belgium Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Ireland Limited Jersey Financial statements 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 123 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 123 30 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES continued Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland Shire Brandywine LLC United States Shire Canada, Inc. Canada Shire Colombia S. A. S. Colombia Shire Czech S. R. O. Czech Republic Shire Denmark ApS Denmark Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH Germany Shire Development, Inc. United States Shire Europe Finance United Kingdom Shire Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Executive Services LLC United States Shire Farmacutica Brasil LTDA Brazil Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands Shire Finland Oy Finland Shire France S. A. France Shire Global Finance United Kingdom Shire GmbH Germany Shire Hellas Pharmaceuticals Import Export and Marketing S. A. Greece Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Netherlands Shire Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings Europe No.
2 S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Holdings Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland Shire Holdings Limited Bermuda Shire Holdings Luxembourg S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings US AG United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies Canada Inc. Canada Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB Sweden Shire Human Genetic Therapies Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies S. A. Argentina Shire Human Genetic Therapies Securities Corporation United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc. United States Shire Incorporated United States Shire Intellectual Property 2 SRL Barbados Shire Intellectual Property Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Intellectual Property SRL Barbados Shire International Licensing BV Netherlands Shire Investments & Finance U. K. Company United Kingdom Shire IP Services Corporation Canada Shire Italia S. p. A. Italy Shire Jersey Limited Jersey Shire LLC United States Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
2 S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Sarl Luxembourg Shire-Movetis NV Belgium Shire North America Group Inc. United States Shire Norway AS Norway Shire Orphan Therapies GmbH Germany Shire Orphan Therapies, Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Development, Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Holdings Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Trading Ireland Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investments 2008 Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Group United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica S. L. Spain Shire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments British Virgin Islands Limited Virgin Islands, British Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments 2007 Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:14 Page 124 124 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 30 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES continued Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals LLC United States Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico SA fide CV Mexico Shire Pharmaceuticals Portugal, Lda Portugal Shire Pharmaceuticals Services Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Trading Limited Company Turkey Shire Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland Shire Properties US United States Shire Regulatory, Inc. United States Shire Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Shire Supplies U. S. LLC United States Shire Sweden AB Sweden Shire UK Investments Limited United Kingdom Shire US Acquisitions LLC United States Shire US Holdings, Inc. United States Shire US Holdings, LLC United States Shire US, Inc. United States Shire US Investments United Kingdom Shire US Manufacturing, Inc. United States Sparkleflame Limited United Kingdom Tanaud International BV Netherlands Tanaud Ireland Inc. Ireland The Endocrine Centre Limited United Kingdom TKT Argentina S. R. L. Argentina 31 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit and non-audit services, including tax advisory and compliance services, provided by the Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, and the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Registered Public Accountants.
In recognition of the importance of maintaining the independence of Deloitte LLP, a process for pre-approval has been in place since July 1, 2002 and has continued through to the end of the period covered by this Annual Report.
The following table provides an analysis of the amount paid to the Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, all fees having been pre-approved by the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
2011 2010 Year to December 31, $M $M 1 Audit fees 3.3 3.4 2 Audit-related fees 0.1 3 Tax fees 0.1 Total fees 3.4 3.5 1 Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits.
2 Audit related fees consist of work generally only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory filings.
3 Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance, planning and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
32 AGGREGATE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The following table gives details of the aggregate remuneration paid to Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors including the value of the exercise of options, SAR Awards and vesting of PSA Awards: 2011 2010 $000 $000 Emoluments 5,787 5,600 Money purchase pension contributions 561 529 Sub-total of annual emoluments 6,348 6,129 1 Other income arising from release exercise of long-term incentives Gains on exercise of share options and SAR Awards and release of PSA Awards 21,851 14,286 Gains on the release of EAIP Awards 2,368 1,183 2 Total Emoluments and other income arising from long-term incentives 30,567 21,598 1 Includes the value of shares that were released under long-term plans and gains realized in these years.
2 For the purpose of this table amounts denominated in Pounds sterling have been converted to US dollar amounts at the average exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 of 1:$1.6038 and for 2010 of 1:$1.5459.
