SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 statement of significant accounting policies BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The separate Accounts of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards UK GAAP.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
The Company has taken the exemption from FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures provided for a parent companys single entity financial statements.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The accounting policy for share-based payments FRS 20 is consistent with that of the Group as detailed on page 80.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The accounting policy for financial instruments is consistent with that of the Group as detailed on pages 81 and 82.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The accounting policy for financial assets and liabilities is consistent with that of the Group as detailed on pages 80 and 81.
INVESTMENTS Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS The accounting policy for tangible fixed assets is consistent with that of the Group as detailed on page 82.
FOREIGN CURRENCY Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates as of the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Profit and Loss Account.
INTEREST IN ASSOCIATE The interest in associate is shown at cost less provision for impairment.
DIVIDENDS Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors that have not been paid by the end of the year are not recognised in the Accounts until they have been approved by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
"RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 ""Related Party Disclosures"" not to disclose transactions with other members of the group 100% owned by SIG plc either directly or indirectly."
