SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 pRincipAl tRAding subsidiARies The Companys principal trading subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned, are currently as follows: insulation and energy management exteriors interiors united Kingdom SIG Trading Limited SIG Energy Management Limited ireland SIG Building Products Limited Insulation Distributors Limited germany WeGo Systembaustoffe GmbH Melle Dachbaustoffe GmbH france Socit fide lOuest des Produits Isolants SAS LITT Diffusion SAS Larivire SAS benelux SIG Nederland B. V. SIG Melderste Plafonneerartikelen N. V. Air Trade Centre Belgium N. V. poland SIG Sp.
z o. o. Czech republic SIG Czech s. r. o. slovakia BEK Baustoffe Slovakia s. r. o.
All of the above companies are registered in the country referred to above, with the exception of SIG Trading Limited and SIG Energy Management that are registered in England and Wales.
SIG European Investments Limited and SIG European Holdings Limited together hold the beneficial ownership of SIG Building Products Limited, WeGo Systembaustoffe GmbH, Melle Dachbaustoffe GmbH, Socit fide lOuest des Produits Isolants SAS, LITT Diffusion SAS, Larivire SAS, SIG Nederland B. V. SIG Melderste Plafonneerartikelen N. V. Air Trade Centre Belgium N. V. SIG Sp.
z o. o. SIG Czech s. r. o. and BEK Baustoffe Slovakia s. r. o.
125 Corporate offiCe Signet House 17 Europa View Sheffield Business Park Sheffield S9 1XH tel: 44 0 114 285 6300 fax: 44 0 114 285 6349 e-mail: info@sigplc.
com registered offiCe Hillsborough Works Langsett Road Sheffield S6 2LW registered Number Registered in England 998314 SIGs commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report which has been printed on Satimatt Green and Revive 50, both recycled paper stocks comprising 75% recycled fibre and 25% virgin fibre.
This document was printed by CPG using vegetable-based inks and water-soluble lacquers and all production processes used make the minimum demand on the environment and produce the minimum amount of waste.
Both the printer and the paper mill are registered to ISO 14001 and FSC approved.
