Financial statements 65 significant accounting policies for the 52 weeks ended 17 September 2011 Associated British Foods plc the Company is a company the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial are described in the Financial review on pages 28 and 29.
In addition, statements of the Company for the 52 weeks ended 17 September the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 46 to 48 and note 24 2011 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together on pages 93 to 104 provide details of the groups policy on managing referred to as the group and the groups interest in associates and its financial and commodity risks.
The group has considerable financial resources, good access to debt The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors markets, a diverse range of businesses and a wide geographic spread.
It is therefore well placed to manage business risks successfully despite the current economic uncertainty.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Basis of consolidation Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU The consolidated financial statements include the results of the AdoptedIFRS.
Company and all of its subsidiaries from the date that control commences to the date that control ceases.
The consolidated The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial financial statements also include the groups share of the after-tax statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
results of its joint ventures and associates on an equity-accounted These are presented on pages 108 to 112. basis from the point at which joint control or significant influence Basis of preparation respectively commences, to the date that it ceases.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern except that biological assets and certain financial instruments are the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain stated at fair value.
Assets classified as held for sale are stated at benefits from its activities.
the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs tosell.
Changes in the groups ownership interest in a subsidiary that do The preparation of financial statements under Adopted IFRS requires not result in a loss of control are accounted for within equity.
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the group and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
The estimates has joint control, typically established by contractual agreement.
and associated assumptions are based on experience.
Actual results Associates are those entities in which the group has significant may differ from these estimates.
Judgements made by management influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
in the application of Adopted IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk Business combinations of material adjustment next year, are discussed in accounting On the acquisition of a business or an interest in a joint venture estimates and judgements detailed on page 70. or associate, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, reflecting conditions The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a regular at the date of acquisition.
Adjustments to fair values include those basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised from the made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
period in which the estimates arerevised.
Provisional fair values are finalised within twelve months of the The accounting policies set out below have been applied to all business combination date and are adjusted by restatement periods presented, except where detailed otherwise.
of the comparative period in which the acquisition occurred.
Non-controlling interests are measured at the proportionate Details of new accounting standards which came into force in share of the net identifiable assets acquired.
the year are set out at the end of this note.
None of them required For business combinations executed in periods ending on or before restatement of primary statements in comparative periods, nor had 12 September 2009: any significant impact on the groups consolidated results or financialposition.
Goodwill arising on a business combination was the excess of the The financial statements of the group are prepared to the Saturday carrying amount of any existing equity interest plus the fair value of nearest to 15 September.
Accordingly, these financial statements consideration payable for the additional stake over the fair value of have been prepared for the 52weeks ended 17September 2011 the share of net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired including prior period for the 53 weeks ended 18September 2010.
To avoid separately identified intangible assets, net of non-controlling delay in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, interests.
the results of certain subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are For business combinations executed before 3 September 2004, included up to 31August 2011.
The results of Illovo are included for goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, represented the period to 30September 2011 in line with Illovos local reporting by the net book value recorded under previous GAAP.
Adjustments are made as appropriate for significant transactions or events occurring between 31August and Contingent consideration was measured at fair value at the date 30September.
Subsequent changes to contingent consideration other than settlements are accounted for as The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to adjustments to goodwill.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Operating review on pages 16 to 27.
The financial position of Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial st Financial stat atemen ements ts 66 N Signi otes f co ar nt m ac ing p counting art of t polic he n ie as n c cio antinue l stated ments continued for the 52 weeks ended 17 September 2011 The following changes apply to business combinations executed or actual rates to rates at the balance sheet date, are taken to the in periods beginning on or after 13 September 2009: translation reserve in equity.
Existing equity interests in the acquiree are remeasured to fair value Pensions and other post-employment benets as at the date of the business combination, with any resulting gain The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
or loss taken to the income statement.
In addition the group has defined contribution plans and other unfunded post-employment liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, Goodwill arising on a business combination is the excess of the the amount charged in the income statement is the cost of benefits remeasured carrying amount of any existing equity interest plus accruing to employees over the year, plus any benefit improvements the fair value of consideration payable for the additional stake over granted tomembers by the group during the year.
It also includes the fair value of the share of net identifiable assets and liabilities a credit equivalent to the groups expected return on pension plan acquired including separately identified intangible assets, net assets over the year, offset by a charge equalto the expected of non-controlling interests.
Total consideration does not include interest on plan liabilities over the year.
For each of the groups acquisition costs, which are expensed as incurred.
plans, the difference between the market value of assets and the Contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of the present value of liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability in the business combination, classified as asset, liability or equity usually balancesheet.
as a liability, and subsequently accounted for in line with that Any related deferred tax to the extent it is recoverable is disclosed classification.
Changes in contingent consideration classified as separately in the balance sheet.
Any actuarial gains or losses are an asset or liability resulting other than from the finalisation of recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Surpluses provisional fair values are accounted for in the income statement.
on defined benefit plans are recognised only to the extent that they Revenue are recoverable.
Movements in irrecoverable surpluses are Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales made to customers recognised immediately as an actuarial gain or loss in other after deduction of discounts and sales taxes.
Discounts include sales comprehensive income.
rebates, price discounts, customer incentives, certain promotional Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution activities and similar items.
Revenue does not include sales between plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and post-employment liabilities are accounted for in the same way as rewards of the underlying products have been substantially defined benefit pension plans.
transferred to the customer, and when it can be reliably measured.
Share-based payments Revenue from sale of goods is generally recognised on dispatch or The fair value of share awards at grant date is recognised as an delivery to customers, dependent on shipping terms.
Discounts are employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, spread provided for as a reduction to revenue at the time a sale is recorded, over the period during which the executives become unconditionally based on managements best estimate of the amount required to entitled to the shares.
The amount recognised as an expense is meet claims by customers.
adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting, except where the failure to vest is as a result of not meeting a Borrowing costs marketcondition.
Borrowing costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method.
For qualifying Income tax items of property, plant and equipment, where the commencement Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current date for capitalisation was on or after 13 September 2009, the group and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement capitalises borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the except to the extent that it relates to items taken directly to other acquisition, construction or production of those qualifying assets as comprehensive income.
Previously, the group expensed all borrowing costs Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on taxable income as incurred.
Interest capitalised is taxed under current or deferred tax for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted during as appropriate.
the period, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect Foreign currencies of previous years.
In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the differences are taken to the income statement.
amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations that are the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the accounting nor taxable profit other than those acquired in a business rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries items are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable exchange other than substantial transactions, which are translated future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount Differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively of group companies, together with differences arising from the enacted at the balance sheet date.
restatement of the net results of group companies from average Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 67 A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is retained in the hedging reserve until the forecast transaction probable that future taxable profits will be available against which occurs.
Gains or losses on hedging instruments that relate to the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the an underlying exposure that no longer exists are taken directly extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will to the incomestatement.
Hedges of the groups net investment in foreign operations take the Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of form of borrowings in the currency of the investments netassets.
dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to The group economically hedges foreign currency exposure on pay the related dividend.
recognised monetary assets and liabilities but does not normally Financial assets and liabilities seek hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Any derivatives that the group Financial assets and financial liabilities, except for other non-current holds to hedge this exposure are classified as held for trading investments and derivatives, are measured initially atfair value, plus within derivative assets and liabilities.
Changes in the fair value of directly attributable transaction costs, and thereafter at amortised such derivatives and the foreign exchange gains and losses arising cost.
Other non-current investments classified under other on the related monetary items are recognised within operating profit non-current receivables comprise available-for-sale investments in the income statement.
which are measured at market prices where available.
Where quoted Intangible assets other than goodwill market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair Non-operating intangible assets are intangible assets that arise value cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments on business combinations and typically include technology, brands, are measured at cost less impairment.
customer relationships and grower agreements.
Operating intangible Cash and cash equivalents assets are intangible assets acquired in the ordinary course of Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank and cash balances, call business and typically include computer software, land use rights, deposits and short-term investments with original maturities of and emissions trading licences.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand Intangible assets other than goodwill are stated at cost less are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
purposes of the cash flow statement.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line Derivatives basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the Derivatives are used to manage the groups economic exposure to date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are financial and commodity risks.
The principal instruments used are generally deemed to be no longer than: forward foreign exchange contracts, futures, swaps or options the hedging instrument.
The group does not use derivatives for Technology and brands up to 15 years speculative purposes.
Customer relationships up to 5 years Grower agreements up to 10 years Derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet, at fair value, based on market prices or rates, or calculated using either discounted cash Goodwill flow or option pricing models.
Goodwill is defined under Business combinations on pages 65 and66.
Changes in the value of derivatives are recognised in the income Certain commercial assets associated with the acquisition of a statement unless they qualify for hedge accounting, when business are not capable of being recognised in the acquisition recognition of any change in fair value depends on the nature of balance sheet.
In such circumstances, goodwill is recognised, the item being hedged.
which may include, but is not necessarily limited to, workforce The purpose of hedge accounting is to mitigate the impact on the assets and the benefits of expected future synergies.
groups income statement of changes in foreign exchange or interest rates and commodity prices, by matching the impact of the hedged Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an annual impairment review.
risk and the hedging instrument in the income statement.
Research and development Research expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Changes in the value of derivatives used as hedges of future cash flows are recognised through other comprehensive income in the Development expenditure is capitalised if the product or process is hedging reserve, with any ineffective portion recognised technically and commercially feasible, and is otherwise expensed as immediately within operating profit in the income statement.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less When the future cash flow results in the recognition of a accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
non-financial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously recognised in the hedging reserve are included in the initial measurement of that asset or liability.
Otherwise, gains and losses previously recognised in the hedging reserve are recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in the hedging reserve is Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial statements 68 significant accounting policies continued for the 52 weeks ended 17 September 2011 Impairment Leases The carrying amounts of the groups intangible assets and property, A lease is an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee, plant and equipment are reviewed at each balance sheet date to in return for a payment or a series of payments, the right to use a determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such specific asset for an agreed period of time.
indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For Where the group is a lessee and has substantially all the risks and goodwill and intangibles without a finite life, the recoverable amount rewards of ownership of an asset, the arrangement is considered a is estimated at each balance sheet date.
Finance leases are recognised as assets of the group An impairment charge is recognised in the income statement within property, plant and equipment at the inception of the lease at whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating the lower of fair value and the present value of the minimum lease unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Payments made Impairment charges recognised in respect of cash-generating units under finance leases are apportioned between capital repayments are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill and interest expense charged to the income statement.
Other allocated to a cash-generating unit or group of units and then to leases where the group is a lessee are treated as operating leases.
reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit or group Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the of units on a pro rata basis.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the Calculation of recoverable amount lease.
The benefit of lease incentives is recognised in the income The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their fair statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, Where the group is a lessor under an operating lease, the asset is the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present capitalised within property, plant and equipment and depreciated value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market over its useful economic life.
Payments received under operating assessments of the time value of money.
For an asset that does not leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount basis over the term of the lease.
is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Biological assets Reversals of impairment Biological assets are measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Cane An impairment charge in respect of goodwill is not subsequently roots and growing cane are stated at fair value determined on the reversed.
For other assets, an impairment charge is reversed following bases: if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the new carrying Cane roots the escalated average cost, using appropriate amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been inflation-related indices, of each year of planting adjusted for determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment the remaining expected life.
Expected useful lives are currently charge had beenrecognised.
ten years in South Africa, seven years in Zambia and eight yearselsewhere.
Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less Growing cane the estimated sucrose content valued at the accumulated depreciation and impairment charges.
estimated sucrose price for the following season, less the estimated costs for harvesting and transport.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and When harvested, growing cane is transferred to inventory at fair equipment sufficient to reduce them to their estimated residual value less costs to sell.
The estimated useful lives are Inventories generally deemed to be no longer than: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Freehold buildings 66 years Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses and an Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings appropriate proportion of production and other overheads.
Cost is sugar factories, yeast plants and mills 20 years calculated on a first-in first-out basis.
other operations 12 years Inventories for Primark are valued at the lower of cost and net Vehicles 10 years realisable value using the retail method, which is calculated on the basis of selling price less the appropriate trading margin.
All Primark inventories are finished goods.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 69 New accounting policies The group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations with no material impact all effective from 19 September 2010 : t Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: t Elements of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009: t Elements of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010: t Amendment to IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations: t Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: and t IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the following revised standards and interpretations or amendments that are not yet effective.
These changes will be adopted on the effective dates noted and are not expected to have a material impact on the groups reported profit, earning per share, net assets or disclosures all effective from 18 September 2011 unless otherwise stated : t Certain elements of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010: t Revisions to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: and t IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
These changes have not yet been endorsed by the EU so will not necessarily be adopted by the effective dates noted: t Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective 2012 financial year: t IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classication and Measurement effective 2014 or 2016 financial year, which amends the classication and measurement for financial assets and liabilities: t IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective 2014 financial year: t IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 2014 financial year: t IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effective 2014 financial year: t IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective 2014 financial year: t Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements effective 2013 financial year: t Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes effective 2013 financial year: and t IAS 19 Employee Benets effective 2014 financial year.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011
