Financial statements 70 Accounting estimates and judgements for the 52 weeks ended 17 September 2011 In applying the accounting policies detailed on pages 65 to 69, Growing cane valuation estimated sucrose content requires management has made estimates in a number of areas and the management to assess the expected cane and sucrose yields for actual outcome may differ from those calculated.
Key sources of the following season considering weather conditions and harvesting estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date with a significant programmes: estimated sucrose price requires management to risk of material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and assess into which markets the forthcoming crop will be sold and liabilities within the next financial yearare: assess domestic and export prices as well as the related foreign currency exchange rates.
The carrying value of growing cane is Forecasts and discount rates disclosed in note 10.
The carrying values of a number of items on the balance sheet are dependent on estimates of future cash flows arising from the Cash ow hedge accounting groups operations which, in some circumstances, are discounted In order to achieve and maintain cash flow hedge accounting, to arrive at a net present value.
it is necessary for the group to determine, at inception and on an ongoing basis, whether a forecast transaction is highly probable Assessment for impairment involves comparing the book value and whether the hedge is effective.
This requires both subjective of an asset with its recoverable amount being the higher of its value and objective measures of determination.
in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is determined with reference to projected future cash flows discounted at an Exceptional items appropriate rate.
Both the cash flows and the discount rate involve The directors consider that items of income or expense which are a significant degree of .
material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are to present fairly the financial The realisation of deferred tax assets is dependent on the generation position and financial performance of the entity.
The directors label of sufficient future taxable profits.
The group recognises deferred tax these items collectively as exceptional items.
Determining which assets when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered, transactions are to be considered exceptional in nature is often a based on an assessment of the likelihood of there being sufficient subjective matter.
However, circumstances that the directors believe taxable profits in the future.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the would give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure might extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will include major business restructurings, impairments and reversals berealised.
Post-retirement benets All exceptional items are included in the appropriate income The groups defined benefit pension schemes and similar statement line item to which they relate.
In addition, for clarity, arrangements are assessed annually in accordance with IAS19.
The separate disclosure is made of all exceptional items, with additional accounting valuation, which has been assessed using assumptions explanation in the notes.
determined with independent actuarial advice, resulted in a net liability of 44m being recognised as at 17September 2011.
Taxation The size of this net liability is sensitive to the market value of The level of current and deferred tax recognised is dependent the assets held by the schemes, to the discount rate used in on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions by tax assessing actuarial liabilities, to the actuarial assumptions which authorities in various jurisdictions around the world.
include price inflation, rates of pension and salary increases, Fair values on acquisition mortality and other demographic assumptions and to the level Items of property, plant and equipment often have long operating of contributions.
Further details are included in note12.
lives, hence determination of fair values can require a significant Provisions degree of judgement.
Acquisitions often result in significant intangible Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the benefits for the group, some of which qualify for recognition as expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet intangible assets.
Other such benefits do not meet the recognition date, taking into account a range of possible outcomes.
requirements of accounting standards and therefore form part of goodwill.
Significant judgement is required in the assessment and Property, plant and equipment residual values and valuation of these intangible assets, often with reference to internal useful lives data and models.
Professional valuers are engaged where it is Management reviews residual values annually considering market deemed appropriate to do so.
Fair values on major acquisitions conditions and projected disposal values.
In assessing useful lives, are disclosed in note 21. maintenance programmes and technological innovations are considered.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is disclosed in note 9.
Biological assets Cane roots valuation requires an estimation by management of the average number of ratoons expected from the crop.
The carrying value of cane roots is disclosed in note 10.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011
