Accounts and other information Glossary of terms Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the meanings shown below: Term Meaning ACL The anterior cruciate ligament ACL is one of the four major ligaments in the human knee.
ADR In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of ADSs evidenced by American Depository Receipts ADRs.
ADS In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs.
Advanced Wound Management A product group comprising products associated with the treatment of skin wounds, ranging from products that provide moist wound healing using breathable lms and polymers to products providing active wound healing by biochemical or cellular action.
AGM Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Arthroscopy Endoscopy of the joints is termed arthroscopy, with the principal applications being the knee and shoulder.
ASD Advanced Surgical Devices division.
AWD Advanced Wound Management division.
Basis Point One hundredth of one percentage point.
Chronic wounds are those with long or unknown healing times including leg ulcers, pressure sores Chronic wounds and diabetic foot ulcers.
Company Smith & Nephew plc or, where appropriate, the Companys Board of Directors, unless the context otherwise requires.
Companies Act Companies Act 2006, as amended, of England and Wales.
DUROLANE is a registered trademark of Q-MED AB.
DUROLANE EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EIP Earnings Improvement Programme or EIP, the objective of which is to enhance short and medium term performance, to liberate resources for investment and to establish a culture of continuous improvement.
Emerging Markets Emerging Markets include Greater China, India, Brazil and Russia.
EPSA Adjusted Earnings Per Share is a trend measure which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specic transactions that management considers affects the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents this measure to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
Adjusted attributable profit is the numerator used for this measure.
Endoscopy Endoscopy allows surgeons to operate through small openings in the body, rather than large incisions.
Endoscopy products A product group comprising specialised viewing and access devices, surgical instruments and powered equipment used in minimally invasive surgical procedures.
Through a small incision surgeons are able to see inside the body using a monitor and identify and repair defects.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning: a software system which integrates internal and external management information, facilitating the ow of information across an organisation.
Established Markets include United States of America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Established Markets Japan.
Euro or References to the common currency used in the majority of the countries of the European Union.
External xation The use of wires or pins transxed through bone to hold a frame to the position of a fracture.
FDA US Food and Drug Administration.
Financial statements Refers to the consolidated Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew plc.
Full Time Equivalent or FTE is a unit that indicates the workload of an employed person in a way that FTE makes workloads comparable across various contexts.
FTSE 100 Index of the largest 100 listed companies on the London Stock Exchange by market capitalisation.
Glenohumeral joint This is the main joint of the shoulder.
GMP Good manufacturing practice or GMP is the guidance that outlines the aspects of production and testing that can impact the quality of a product.
Group or Smith & Nephew Used for convenience to refer to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.
153 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview Accounts and other information Glossary of terms continued Term Meaning HVAC Refers to heating, ventilation and air conditioning.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
International Markets International Markets include Middle East, North Africa, Southern Africa, Latin America, ASEAN, South Korea and Eastern Europe.
Meniscal repair Relates to a surgical procedure performed on the knee.
Metal-on-metal hip resurfacing A less invasive surgical approach to treating arthritis in certain patients whereby only the surfaces of the hip joint are replaced leaving the hip head substantially preserved.
Negative Pressure Wound Therapy A technology used to treat chronic wounds such as diabetic ulcers, pressure sores and post-operative wounds through the application of sub-atmospheric pressure to an open wound.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
Orthobiologics products Any product that is primarily intended to act as a scaffold and or actively stimulates bone growth.
Orthopaedic products Orthopaedic reconstruction products include joint replacement systems for knees, hips and shoulders and support products such as computer assisted surgery and minimally invasive surgery techniques.
Orthopaedic trauma devices are used in the treatment of bone fractures including rods, pins, screws, plates and external frames.
Clinical therapies products include joint uid therapy for pain reduction of the knee and an ultrasound treatment to accelerate the healing of bone fractures.
OXINIUM OXINIUM material is an advanced load bearing technology.
It is created through a proprietary manufacturing process that enables zirconium to absorb oxygen and transform to a ceramic on the surface, resulting in a material that incorporates the features of ceramic and metal.
Management believes that OXINIUM material used in the production of components of knee and hip implants exhibits unique performance characteristics due to its hardness, low-friction and resistance to roughening and abrasion.
Parent Company Smith & Nephew plc.
1p is equivalent to one hundredth of 1.
Pound Sterling, Sterling, pence or p Repair A product group within endoscopy comprising specialised devices, xation systems and bio-absorbable materials to repair joints and associated tissue.
Resection Products that cut or ablate tissue within endoscopy comprising mechanical blades, radio frequency wands, electromechanical and hand instruments for resecting tissue.
SUPARTZ SUPARTZ is a registered trademark of Seikagaku Corp. Trading profit Trading profit is a trend which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specic transactions that management considers affects the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group has identied the following items, where material, as those to be excluded from operating profit when arriving at trading profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: significant restructuring events: and gains and losses resulting from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
Traditional woundcare Product group comprising medical textile products, adhesive tapes and xative sheets to secure wound management products to the body.
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
UK GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
US United States of America.
US Dollars, US $ or cents References to US currency.
1 cent is equivalent to one hundredth of US$1.
US GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Visualisation Products within endoscopy comprising digital cameras, light sources, monitors, scopes, image capture, central control and multimedia broadcasting systems for use in endoscopic surgery with visualisation.
An area of healthy dermal and epidermal tissue of a wound.
Wound bed 154 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011
