Accounts and other information Notes to the Group accounts 1 Basis of preparation Smith & Nephew plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales.
In these accounts, Group means the Company and all its subsidiaries.
The principal activities of the Group are to develop, manufacture, market and sell medical devices in the sectors of Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
As required by the European Unions IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006, the Group has prepared its accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU effective as at 31 December 2011.
The Group has also prepared its accounts in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as at 31 December 2011.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
However, the differences have no impact for the periods presented.
The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The accounting policies requiring management to use significant estimates and assumptions: inventories, impairment, retirement benets and contingencies and provisions, are discussed under Critical Accounting Policies within the Business Review section on page28.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Smith & Nephew plc the Company and its subsidiaries for the periods during which they were members of the Group.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Group accounts from the date that the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
All subsidiaries have year ends which are co-terminus with the Groups.
Recognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on a trade date basis in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group carries borrowings in the Balance Sheet at amortised cost.
Foreign currencies Balance sheet items of foreign operations and foreign currency borrowings are translated into US Dollars on consolidation at year-end rates of exchange.
Income statement items and the cash ows of overseas subsidiary undertakings and associated undertakings are translated at average rates as an approximation to actual transaction rates, with actual transaction rates used for large one off transactions.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The following are recorded as movements in Other reserves within other comprehensive income: exchange differences on the translation at closing rates of exchange of non-US Dollar opening net assets: the differences arising between the translation of profits into US Dollars at average and closing exchange rates: to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective, the difference on translation of foreign currency borrowings or swaps that are used to finance or hedge the Groups net investments in foreign operations: and the movement in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts used to hedge forecast foreign exchange cash ows.
All other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
The exchange rates used for the translation of currencies into US Dollars that have the most significant impact on the Group results were: 2011 2010 2009 Average rates Sterling 1.54 1.56 1.60 Euro 1.39 1.32 1.39 Swiss Franc 1.13 0.96 0.92 Year-end rates Sterling 1.57 1.61 1.55 Euro 1.29 1.34 1.43 Swiss Franc 1.06 1.07 0.97 88 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011
