Business Review Financial review continued The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields on high Factors affecting Smith & Nephews results of operations quality corporate bonds, with currency and term consistent with those Government economic, scal, monetary and political policies are all of the liabilities.
In particular for the UK and US, the discount rate is factors that materially affect the Groups operation or investments of derived by reference to an AA yield curve derived by the Groups shareholders.
Other factors include sales trends, currency uctuations actuarial advisers.
Each of these factors is discussed in further in Our business, marketplace and other factors that could affect us on pages See Note 19 of the Notes to the Group accounts for a summary of how 14to18 and Taxation information for shareholders onpages 147to148.
the assumptions selected in the last five years have compared with actual results.
Critical accounting policies Contingencies and provisions The Groups significant accounting policies are set out in Notes 1 to 24 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
Of those, the policies which require The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant the most use of managements judgement are as follows: degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is considered probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the Inventories amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
In making its estimates, management takes into account the advice of internal and A feature of the Orthopaedics business segment whose nished external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts goods inventory makes up approximately 74% of the Group total updated where necessary to reect developments in the disputes.
The nished goods inventory is the high level of product inventory required, ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the some of which is located at customer premises and is available for outcome of court proceedings and settlement negotiations or if customers immediate use.
Complete sets of product, including large investigations bring to light new facts.
and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world.
product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments Although it is Group policy to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic authorities as promptly as possible, at any given time the Group has inventory to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated unagreed years outstanding and is involved in disputes and tax audits.
in accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared significant issues may take several years to resolve.
In estimating the with historical usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product probability and amount of any tax charge, management takes into line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the account the views of internal and external advisors and updates the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered amount of provision whenever necessary.
The ultimate tax liability may appropriate based on experience, but it does involve management differ from the amount provided depending on interpretations of tax judgements on customer demand, effectiveness of inventory law, settlement negotiations or changes in legislation.
deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old products and efficiency of manufacturing planning systems.
Legal proceedings The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal Impairment proceedings, some of which include claims for substantial damages.
In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill, intangible assets and The outcome of these proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but property, plant and equipment a number of significant assumptions management believes none of them will result in a material adverse have to be made when preparing cash ow projections.
These include effect on the financial position of the Group.
The Group provides for the future rate of market growth, discount rates, the market demand for outcomes that are deemed to be probable and can be reliably the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or estimated.
There is no assurance that losses will not exceed the products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory provision or will not have a significant impact on the Groups results approvals.
If actual results should differ or changes in expectations ofoperations or financial condition in the period in which they arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely arerealised.
Product liability claims Retirement benets In August 2003, the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the A number of key judgements have to be made in calculating the fair macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
value of the Groups dened benefit pension plans.
These assumptions Anumber of related claims have been led, most of which have been impact the Balance Sheet liability, operating profit and other finance settled.
The aggregate cost at 31 December 2011 related to this matter income costs.
The most critical assumptions are the discount rate and is approximately $214m.
The Group has sought recovery from its mortality assumptions to be applied to future pension plan liabilities.
For primary and excess insurers for costs of resolving the claims.
The example as of 31 December 2011, a 0.5% increase in discount rate primary insurance carrier has paid $60m in full settlement of its policy would have reduced the combined UK and US pension plan deficit by liability.
However, the excess carriers have denied coverage, citing $96m whilst a 0.5% decrease would have increased the combined defences relating to the wording of the insurance policies and other deficit by $109m.
A 0.5% increase in discount rate would have matters.
In December 2004, the Group brought suit against them in the decreased profit before taxation by $5m whilst a 0.5% decrease would US District Court for the Western District of Tennessee, and trial is have increased it by $5m.
A one year increase in the assumed life expected to commence in 2013.
An additional $22m was received from expectancy of the average 60 year old male pension plan member in a successful settlement with a third party.
both the UK and US would have increased the combined deficit by $36m.
In making these judgements, management takes into account the advice of professional external actuaries and benchmarks its assumptions against external data.
