Accounts and other information Articles of association The following summarises certain material rights of holders of the Rights attaching to Ordinary Shares Companys Ordinary Shares under the material provisions of the Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys Ordinary Companys articles of association and English law.
This summary is Shares only out of profits available for distribution, as determined in qualied in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and the accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Companys articles of association.
In the following description, a Kingdom and by the Companies Act 2006.
Holders of the Companys shareholder is the person registered in the Companys register of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive final dividends as may be members as the holder of an Ordinary Share.
declared by the Directors and approved by the shareholders in general The Company is incorporated under the name Smith & Nephew plc meeting, rateable according to the amounts paid up on such shares, and is registered in England and Wales with registered number 324357. provided that the dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Companys Ordinary Shares may be held in certicated or uncerticated form.
No holder of the Companys shares will be required The Companys Board of Directors may declare such interim dividends to make additional contributions of capital in respect of the Companys as appear to them to be justied by the Companys financial position.
In accordance with English law the Companys authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the Board Ordinary Shares rank equally.
may also direct payment of a dividend in whole or in part by the distribution of specic assets and in particular of paid up shares or debentures of the Company.
Directors Any dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend was Under the Companys articles of association, a Director may not vote in declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and will revert to respect of any contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which the Company.
he, or any person connected with him, has any material interest other There were no material modications to the rights of shareholders than by virtue of his interests in securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company.
This is subject to certain exceptions relating to proposals under the Articles during 2011. a indemnifying him in respect of obligations incurred on behalf of the Company, b indemnifying a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the Director has assumed responsibility under an Voting rights of Ordinary Shares indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities in which he Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands will be interested as an underwriter, d concerning another body unless a poll, which is a written vote, is duly demanded and held.
On a corporate in which the Director is beneficially interested in less than one show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person at a percent of the issued shares of any class of shares of such a body general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
corporate, e relating to an employee benefit in which the Director will On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has share equally with other employees and f relating to any insurance one vote for each Ordinary Share held by that shareholder.
A poll may that the Company is empowered to purchase for the benefit of be demanded by any of the following: Directors of the Company in respect of actions undertaken as Directors the chairman of the meeting: and or ofcers of the Company.
at least five shareholders present or by proxy entitled to vote on the A Director shall not vote or be counted in any quorum present at a resolution: meeting in relation to a resolution on which he is not entitled to vote.
any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate entitled to vote on the resolution: or amount of all monies borrowed after deducting cash and current asset any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to investments by the Company and its subsidiaries shall not exceed the vote on the resolution on which there have been paid-up sums in sum of $6,500,000,000.
aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up Any Director who has been appointed by the Directors since the on all the shares conferring that right.
previous Annual General Meeting of shareholders, either to ll a casual A form of proxy will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to vacancy or as an additional Director holds ofce only until the demand a poll, or to join others in demanding one, as above.
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and then shall be eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
The other Directors retire The necessary quorum for a general meeting is two shareholders and are eligible for re-appointment at the third Annual General Meeting present in person or by proxy carrying the right to vote upon the after the meeting at which they were last re-appointed.
If not rebusiness to be transacted.
appointed a Director retiring at a meeting shall retain ofce until the Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the meeting appoints someone in his place, or if it does not do so, until the processing and passing of resolutions of which there are two kinds: conclusion of the meeting.
The Directors are subject to removal with or ordinary or special resolutions: without cause by the Board or the shareholders.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualication.
Ordinary resolutions include resolutions for the re-election of Under the Companys articles of association and English law, a Director Directors, the approval of financial statements, the declaration of may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against liabilities dividends other than interim dividends, the appointment and he may sustain or incur in the execution of his duties.
re-appointment of auditors or the grant of authority to allot shares.
An ordinary resolution requires the afrmative vote of a majority of the votes of those persons voting at the meetings at which there is a quorum.
149 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview Accounts and other information Articles of association continued Special resolutions include resolutions amending the Companys Limitations on voting and shareholding articles of association, dis-applying statutory pre-emption rights or There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys changing the Companys name: modifying the rights of any class of articles of association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons the Companys shares at a meeting of the holders of such class or to hold or vote the Companys Ordinary shares or ADSs, other than the relating to certain matters concerning the Companys winding up.
A limitations that would generally apply to all of the Companys special resolution requires the afrmative vote of not less than shareholders.
three-quarters of the votes of the persons voting at the meeting at which there is a quorum.
Transfers of shares Annual General Meetings must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days.
Other general meetings must be convened upon The Board may refuse to register the transfer of shares held in advance written notice of at least 14 clear days.
The days of delivery or certicated form which: receipt of notice are not included.
The notice must specify the nature of are not fully paid provided that it shall not exercise this discretion in the business to be transacted.
Meetings are convened by the Board of such a way as to prevent stock market dealings in the shares of that Directors.
Members with 5% of the Ordinary Share capital of the class from taking place on an open and proper basis : Company may requisition the Board to convene a meeting.
are not duly stamped or duly certied or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty, lodged at the Transfer Ofce or at such other place as the Board may appoint and Variation of rights save in the case of a transfer by a person to whom no certicate was If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different issued in respect of the shares in question accompanied by the classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, certicate for the shares to which it relates, and such other evidence subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, with the consent in as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the writing of holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution passed executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every person so to do: such separate meeting, all the provisions of the articles of association are in respect of more than one class of shares: or relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be two or more are in favour of more than four transferees.
who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class and at any such meeting a poll may be demanded in writing by any person or their proxy who hold shares of Deferred shares that class.
Where a person is present by proxy or proxies, he is treated Following the redenomination of share capital on 23 January 2006 the as holding only the shares in respect of which the proxies are Ordinary Shares nominal value became 20 US cents each.
There were authorised to exercise voting rights.
no changes to the rights or obligations of the Ordinary Shares.
In order to comply with the Companies Act 2006, a new class of Sterling shares was created, Deferred Shares, of which 50,000 were issued and allotted in 2006 as fully paid to the Chief Executive officer though the Rights in a winding-up Board reserves the right to transfer them to another member of the Except as the Companys shareholders have agreed or may otherwise Board should it so wish.
These Deferred Shares have no voting or agree, upon the Companys winding up, the balance of assets available dividend rights and on winding up only are entitled to repayment at for distribution: nominal value only if all ordinary shareholders have received the after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential nominal value of their shares plus an additional $1,000 each.
creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal creditors: and subject to any special rights attaching to any other class of shares: Amendments The Company does not have any special rules about amendments to is to be distributed among the holders of Ordinary Shares according to its articles of association beyond those imposed by law.
the amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is generally to be made in US Dollars.
A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption of any extraordinary resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction required by law, divide among the shareholders the whole or any part of the Companys assets in kind.
