Accounts and other information The numerators used for basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share are the same.
The denominators used for all categories of earnings for basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Number of shares millions Basic weighted average number of shares 891 888 884 Dilutive impact of share options outstanding 4 11 Diluted weighted average number of shares 895 889 885 Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic 65.3 69.3 53.4 Diluted 65.0 69.2 53.3 Adjusted: Basic 74.5 73.6 65.6 Adjusted: Diluted 74.2 73.6 65.5 Share options not included in the diluted EPS calculation because they were nondilutive in the period totalled 12.9m 2010 2.5m, 2009 21.4m.
7 Property, plant and equipment Accounting policies Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment where appropriate.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over lives ranging between 20 and 50 years.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful economic lives and the terms of the leases.
Plant and equipment is depreciated over lives ranging between three and 20 years by equal annual instalments to write down the assets to their estimated residual value at the end of their working lives.
Assets in course of construction are not depreciated until they are brought into use.
The useful lives and residual values of all property, plant and equipment are reviewed each financial year-end, and where adjustments are required, these are made prospectively.
Finance costs relating to the purchase or construction of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets that take longer than one year to complete are capitalised based on the Group weighted average borrowing costs.
All other finance costs are expensed as incurred.
Impairment of assets The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, its estimated future cash ow is discounted to its present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
97 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
