Accounts and other information Shareholder return Dividends Dividend history Smith & Nephew has paid dividends on its Ordinary Shares in every year since 1937.
Following the capital restructuring and dividend reduction in 2000 the Group adopted a policy of increasing its dividend cover the ratio of EPSA, as set out in the Selected financial data, to ordinary dividends declared for the year.
This was intended to increase the nancing capability of the Group for acquisitions and other investments.
From 2000 to 2004 the dividend increased in line with ination and, in 2004, dividend cover stood at 4.1 times.
Having achieved this level of dividend cover the Board changed its policy, from that of increasing dividends in line with ination, to that of increasing dividends for 2005 and after by 10%.
Following the redenomination of the Companys share capital into US Dollars the Board re-afrmed its policy of increasing the dividend by 10% ayear in US Dollar terms.
An interim dividend in respect of each scal year is normally declared in August and paid in November.
A final dividend will be recommended by the Board of Directors and paid subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Future dividends of Smith & Nephew will be dependent upon: future earnings: the future financial condition of the Group: the Boards dividend policy: and the additional factors that might affect the business of the Group set out in Special note regarding forward-looking statements and Risk Factors.
Dividends per share The table below sets out the dividends per Ordinary share in the last five years.
Dividends above include the associated UK tax credit of 10%, but exclude the deduction of withholding taxes.
All dividends, up to the second interim dividend for 2005, were declared in pence per Ordinary Share and translated into US cents per Ordinary Share at the Noon Buying Rate on the payment date.
Since the second interim dividend for 2005 all dividends have been declared in US cents per Ordinary Share.
The 2011 final dividend will be payable on 9 May 2012, subject to shareholder approval.
In respect of the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 10.80 US cents per Ordinary Share, the record date will be 20 April 2012 and the payment date will be 9May 2012.
The Sterling equivalent per Ordinary Share will be set following the record date.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in either Sterling or US Dollars and the last day for election will be 20 April 2012.
The Ordinary Shares will trade exdividend on both the London and New York Stock Exchanges from 18 April 2012.
138 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Share prices The table below sets out, for the periods indicated, the highest and lowest middle market quotations for the Companys Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority and the highest and lowest sales prices of its ADSs as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape.
