Accounts and other information Taxation information for shareholders The comments below are of a general and summary nature and are Taxation of dividends in the United Kingdom and the based on the Groups understanding of certain aspects of current UK United States and US federal income tax law and practice relevant to the ADSs and The UK does not currently impose a withholding tax on dividends paid Ordinary Shares not in ADS form.
The comments address the material by a UK corporation, such as the Company.
US and UK tax consequences generally applicable to a person who is the beneficial owner of ADSs or Ordinary Shares and who, for US Distributions paid by the Company will be treated for US federal income federal income tax purposes, is a citizen or resident of the United tax purposes as foreign source ordinary dividend income to a US States, a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation created or Holder to the extent paid out of the Companys current or accumulated organised in or under the laws of the United States, or an estate or trust earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
the income of which is included in gross income for US federal income Such dividends will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction tax purposes regardless of its source each a US Holder.
The generally allowed to corporate US Holders.
comments set out below do not purport to address all tax Dividends paid to certain non-corporate US Holders of Ordinary Shares consequences of the ownership of ADSs or Ordinary Shares which or ADSs in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2013 may be may be material to a particular holder and in particular do not deal with subject to US federal income tax at lower rates than other types of the position of shareholders who directly or indirectly own 10% or more ordinary income if certain conditions are met.
Non-corporate US of the Companys issued Ordinary Shares.
This discussion does not Holders should consult their own tax advisors to determine whether apply to i persons whose holding of ADSs or Ordinary Shares is they are subject to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at effectively connected with or pertains to either a permanent these favourable rates.
establishment in the United Kingdom through which a US Holder carries on a business in the United Kingdom or a xed base from which a US Holder performs independent personal services in the United Kingdom, or ii persons whose registered address is inside the UK.
Taxation of capital gains This discussion does not apply to certain investors subject to special US Holders, who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes rules, such as certain financial institutions, tax-exempt entities, in the UK, will not generally be liable for UK capital gains tax on any insurance companies, broker-dealers, traders in securities that elect to capital gain realised upon the sale or other disposition of ADSs or mark to market, partnerships or other entities treated as partnerships Ordinary Shares unless the ADSs or Ordinary Shares are held in for US federal income tax purposes, US Holders holding ADSs or connection with a trade carried on in the UK through a permanent Ordinary Shares as part of a hedging, conversion or other integrated establishment or in the case of individuals, through a branch or transaction or whose functional currency for US federal income tax agency.
Furthermore, UK resident individuals who acquire ADSs or purposes is other than the US Dollar and investors liable for alternative Ordinary Shares before becoming temporarily non-UK residents may minimum tax.
In addition, the comments below do not address US remain subject to UK taxation of capital gains on gains realised while state, local or non-US other than UK taxes.
The summary deals only non-resident.
with US Holders who hold ADSs or Ordinary Shares as capital assets.
For US federal income tax purposes, gains or losses realised upon a The summary is based on current UK and US law and practice which is taxable sale or other disposition of ADSs or Ordinary Shares by US subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect.
US Holders are Holders generally will be US source capital gains or losses and will be recommended to consult their own tax advisors as to the particular tax long-term capital gains or losses if the ADSs or Ordinary Shares were consequences to them of the ownership of ADSs or Ordinary Shares.
held for more than one year.
The amount of a US Holders gain or loss The Company believes, and this discussion assumes, that the will be equal to the difference between the amount realised on the sale Company was not a passive foreign investment company for its taxable or other disposition and such holders tax basis in the ADSs, or year ended 31 December 2011.
Ordinary Shares, determined in US Dollars.
This discussion is based in part on representations by the depositary and assumes that each obligation under the deposit agreement and Inheritance and estate taxes any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For purposes of US federal income tax law, US Holders of ADSs will The HM Revenue & Customs imposes inheritance tax on capital generally be treated as owners of the Ordinary Shares represented by transfers which occur on death, and in the seven years preceding the ADSs.
However, the US Treasury has expressed concerns that death.
The HM Revenue & Customs considers that the US UK Double parties to whom depositary shares are released before shares are Taxation Convention on Estate and Gift Tax applies to inheritance tax.
delivered to the depositary pre-released may be taking actions that Consequently, a US citizen who is domiciled in the United States and is are inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits by owners of not a UK national or domiciled in the United Kingdom will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of ADSs and Ordinary Shares.
Such actions would also be inconsistent with the national who is domiciled in the United States will be subject to both UK claiming of the reduced rate of tax, described below, applicable to inheritance tax and US federal estate tax but will be entitled to a credit dividends received by certain non-corporate US Holders.
Accordingly, for US federal estate tax charged in respect of ADSs and Ordinary the availability of the reduced tax rate for dividends received by certain non-corporate US Holders of ADSs could be affected by actions that Shares in computing the liability to UK inheritance tax.
Conversely, a US may be taken by parties to whom ADSs are pre-released.
citizen who is domiciled or deemed domiciled in the United Kingdom will be entitled to a credit for UK inheritance tax charged in respect of ADSs and Ordinary Shares in computing the liability for US federal estate tax.
Special rules apply where ADSs and Ordinary Shares are business property of a permanent establishment of an enterprise situated in the United Kingdom.
147 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview Accounts and other information Taxation information for shareholders continued A charge of stamp duty or SDRT at the rates of 1 % of the US information reporting and backup withholding consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the shares A US Holder may be subject to US information reporting and backup concerned will arise on a transfer or issue of Ordinary Shares to the withholding on dividends paid on or the proceeds of sales of ADSs or Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance service or their Ordinary Shares made within the US or through certain US-related nominees or agents for the conversion into ADRs and will generally be financial intermediaries, unless the US Holder is an exempt recipient or, payable by the Depositary or person providing clearance service.
In in the case of backup withholding, provides a correct US taxpayer accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty identication number and certain other conditions are met.
US backup payable by the Depositary on deposits of Ordinary Shares will be withholding may also apply if there has been a notication from the US charged by the Depositary to the party to whom ADRs are delivered Internal Revenue Service of a failure to report all interest or dividends.
Any backup withholding deducted may be credited against the US No liability for stamp duty or SDRT will arise on any transfer of, or Holders US federal income tax liability, and, where the withholding tax agreement to transfer, an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS, exceeds the actual liability, the US Holder may obtain a refund by timely provided that the ADS and any instrument of transfer or written ling the appropriate refund claim with the US Internal Revenue Service.
agreement to transfer remains at all times outside the United Kingdom, For taxable years ending after December 19, 2011, certain US Holders and provided further that any instrument of transfer or written who are individuals are required to report information relating to their agreement to transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom and the ownership of an interest in certain foreign financial assets, including transfer does not relate to any matter or thing done or to be done in the stock of a non-US person, subject to exceptions including an exception United Kingdom the location of the custodian as a holder of Ordinary for stock held in custodial accounts maintained by US financial Shares not being relevant in this context.
In any other case, any transfer institutions or by US branches of certain non-US financial institutions.
of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS Certain US Holders that are entities may be subject to similar rules in could, depending on all the circumstances of the transfer, give rise to a the future.
US Holders are recommended to consult their own tax charge to stamp duty or SDRT.
advisors regarding the particular consequences, if any, of these requirements on their ownership and disposition of the Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax UK stamp duty is charged on documents and in particular instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of Ordinary Shares.
Transfers of Ordinary Shares in certicated form will generally be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of % of the consideration given for the transfer with the duty rounded up to the nearest 5.
UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT arises when there is an agreement to transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money or moneys worth, and so an agreement to transfer Ordinary Shares for money or other consideration may give rise to a charge to SDRT at the rate of % rounded up to the nearest penny.
The charge of SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already paid will be refunded, if within six years of the agreement an instrument of transfer is produced to HM Revenue & Customs and the appropriate stamp duty paid.
Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST an electronic transfer system are exempt from stamp duty so long as the transferee is a member of CREST who will hold the Ordinary Shares as a nominee for the transferor and the transfer is in a form that will ensure that the securities become held in uncerticated form within CREST.
Paperless transfers of Ordinary Shares within CREST for consideration in money or moneys worth are liable to SDRT rather than stamp duty.
SDRT on relevant transactions will be collected by CREST at %, and this will apply whether or not the transfer is affected in the United Kingdom and whether or not the parties to it are resident or situated in the United Kingdom.
