Accounts and other information Directors responsibilities for the accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Group and Company Under United Kingdom law the Directors have elected to prepare the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Company accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally regulations.
As a consequence of the Companys Ordinary Shares Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards being traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American and applicable law, which are required by law to give a true and fair Depositary Shares the Directors are responsible for the preparation view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the and ling of an annual report on Form 20-F with the US Securities and Company for that period.
In preparing the Company accounts, the Exchange Commission.
Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The Directors are required to prepare Group accounts for each financial year, in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: IFRS as adopted by the European Union which present fairly the State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been financial position of the Group and the financial performance and cash followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained ows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Group accounts, in the accounts: and the Directors are required to: Prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors business.
and then apply them consistently: The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that requirements in preparing the accounts.
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, in the case of the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Groups financial position and financial performance: and responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company State that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
It shouldbe noted that information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UKgoverning the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
