Accounts and other information Further information on the share capital of the Company can be found in Note 20 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
The total distributable reserves of the Company are $1,041m 2010 $990m.
In accordance with the exemption permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The attributable profit for the year dealt with in the accounts of the Company is $166m 2010 $157m.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP for audit and non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual accounts because group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
The fees for the consolidated Group are disclosed in Note 3 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
9 Share based payments The Company operates a number of equity-settled executive and employee share plans.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using an appropriate option pricing model and the corresponding expense is recognised over the vesting period.
Subsidiary companies are recharged for the fair value of share options that relate to their employees.
The disclosure relating to the Company is detailed in Note 24 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
10 Contingencies 2011 2010 $ million $ million Guarantees in respect of subsidiary undertakings 42 33 The Company has given guarantees to banks to support liabilities under foreign exchange and other contracts and cross guarantees to support overdrafts.
Such guarantees are not considered to be liabilities as all subsidiary undertakings are trading as going concerns.
The Company operated dened benefit pension plans in 2004 but at the end of 2005 its pension plan obligations were transferred to Smith & Nephew UK Limited.
The Company has provided guarantees to the Trustees of the pension plans to support future amounts due from participating employers see Note 19 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
133 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
