Accounts and other information Notes to the Company accounts 1 Basis of preparation The separate accounts of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modied to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described below, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
As consolidated financial information has been disclosed under IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Company is exempt from FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and are presented on pages 84 to 128.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures not to present its related party disclosures as the Group accounts contain these disclosures.
In addition, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements not to present its own cash ow statement as the Group accounts contain a consolidated cash ow.
In applying these policies management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are dealt with in arriving at profit before taxation.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences are expected to reverse.
These are based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
2 Results for the year As permitted by section 408 4 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
3Investments Accounting policy Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
$ million At 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 3,598 Investments represent holdings in subsidiary undertakings.
The information provided below is given for the principal direct subsidiary undertakings, all of which are 100% owned and, in accordance with Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list will be appended to Smith & Nephews next annual return to Companies House.
Country of operation Company Name Activity and incorporation Smith & Nephew UK Limited Holding Company England & Wales Smith & Nephew Overseas Limited Holding Company England & Wales Refer to Note 24.3 of the Notes to the Group accounts for the principal trading and manufacturing subsidiary undertakings of the Group.
4Debtors 2011 2010 $ million $ million Amounts falling due within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 2,113 2,514 Prepayments and accrued income 5 6 Current asset derivatives forward foreign exchange contracts 25 3 Current taxation 2 2,145 2,523 131 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
