Accounts and other information Information for shareholders Financial Calendar Annual General Meeting 12 April 2012 Quarter One results 3 May 2012 Payment of 2011 final dividend 9 May 2012 Half year results announced 2 August 2012 i Quarter Three results announced 1 November 2012 Payment of 2012 first interim dividend November 2012 Full year results announced February 2013 i Annual Report available February March 2013 Annual General Meeting April May 2013 i Dividend declaration dates.
Ordinary shareholders Registrar Dividend re-investment plan DRIP All general enquiries concerning shareholdings, dividends, changes to The Company offers shareholders except those in North America the shareholders personal details and the AGM should be addressed to: opportunity to participate in a DRIP.
This enables shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in further Ordinary shares of Smith & Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN996DA Nephew plc.
These are purchased in the market at competitive dealing Tel: 0871 384 2081 inside the UK costs.
For further details plus an application form to re-invest future dividends, contact Equiniti as above.
co. uk Individual savings account ISA Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline: other telephony providers costs Shareholders who are UK resident may hold Smith & Nephew plc may vary.
shares in an Individual Savings Account ISA, which is administered by Shareholder facilities: the Companys registrar.
For information about this service please contact Equiniti as above.
Shareview Equinitis online enquiry and portfolio management service for shareholders.
To view information about your shareholdings online, Shareholder communications register at www.
Once registered for Shareview, you The Company makes quarterly financial announcements which are will also be able to register your proxy instructions online and elect to made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the receive future shareholder communications via the Companys website Groups website www.
Copies of recent Annual www.
Reports, press releases, institutional presentations and audio webcasts are also available on the website.
E-communications In line with developing practice we encourage shareholders to elect to The Company sends paper copies of the Notice of Annual General receive communications via e-mail as this has significant environmental Meeting and Annual Report only to those shareholders that have and cost benets.
Shareholders may register for this service through elected to receive shareholder documentation by post.
ADS holders will Equiniti, at www.
Shareholders will receive a also not receive a paper copy unless they have elected to do so.
conrmation letter from Equiniti at their registered address, containing Electronic copies of the Annual Report and Notice of Annual General an Activation Code for future use.
Meeting are available on the Groups website at www.
Both Ordinary shareholders and ADS holders can request paper copies of the Annual Report, which the Company provides free of Payment of dividends direct to your bank or building charge.
The Company will continue to send to Ordinary shareholders society account by post the Form of Proxy and an accompanying letter notifying them of Shareholders who wish to avoid the risk of their dividend payments the availability of the Annual Report and Notice of Annual General getting lost or mislaid can arrange to have their cash dividends paid Meeting on the Groups website.
Shareholders who elect to receive the directly to a bank or building society account.
This facility is available to Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting electronically are UK resident shareholders who receive sterling dividends.
If you do not informed by e-mail of the documents availability on the Groups live in the UK you may be able to register for the overseas payment website.
ADS holders receive the form of proxy by post but will not service.
Further Information is available at www.
co. uk or by receive a paper copy of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
contacting Equiniti UKand overseas helpline numbers as above.
140 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Investor communications ADS enquiries The Company maintains regular dialogue with individual institutional All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment of dividends shareholders, together with results presentations.
To ensure that all should be addressed to: members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major The Bank of New York Mellon, PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, PA investors, the Executive Directors review significant issues raised by 15252-8516, USA: investors with the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are sent copies of Tel: 1-866-259-2287 inside the US toll free analysts and brokers briengs.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Directors at the AGM and the Company Tel: 1-201-680-6825 internationally regularly responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
com A Global BuyDIRECT plan is available for US residents, enabling investment directly in ADSs with reduced brokerage commissions and UK capital gains tax service costs.
For further information on Global BuyDIRECT contact: The For the purposes of UK capital gains tax the price of the Companys Bank of New York Mellon as above or visit www.
com Ordinary Shares on 31 March 1982 was 35.04p.
The Company provides The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, Smith & Nephew share price with copies of Annual Reports containing Consolidated Financial Statements and the opinion expressed thereon by its independent The Companys Ordinary Shares are quoted on the LSE under the auditors.
Such financial statements are prepared under IFRS.
The Companys share price is available on the Smith & of New York Mellon will send these reports to recorded ADS holders Nephew website www.
who have elected to receive paper copies.
The Company also provides londonstockexchange.
com where it is updated at intervals throughout to The Bank of New York Mellon all notices of shareholders meetings the day.
and other reports and communications that are made generally available to shareholders of the Company.
The Bank of New York Mellon makes such notices, reports and communications available for ShareGift inspection by recorded holders of ADSs and sends forms of proxy by Shareholders with only a small number of shares, which would cost post to all recorded holders of ADSs.
more to sell than they are worth, may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686 which specialises in Smith & Nephew ADS price accepting such shares as donations.
There may be no implications for The Companys ADS price can be obtained from the ofcial New York Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain or loss and it may also be possible Stock Exchange website at www.
com, the Smith-Nephew website to obtain income tax relief.
The relevant stock transfer form may be www.
com and is quoted daily in the Wall Street Journal.
obtained from Equiniti at the above address.
Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
org or ADS payment information by contacting ShareGift at: The Company hereby discloses ADS payment information for the year ShareGift, 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH.
ended 31 December 2011 in accordance with the Securities and Tel: 44 0 20 7930 3737.
D. 4 relating to Form 20-F lings by foreign private issuers.
The depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs American Depositary Shares ADSs and American directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them.
The Depositary Receipts ADRs depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors, including In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of payment of dividends by the Company by deducting those fees from ADSs, evidenced by ADRs, on the NYSE under the symbol SNN.
Each the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property American Depositary Share represents five Ordinary Shares.
The depositary may collect its annual fee for depository of New York Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the services by deductions from cash distributions or by directly billing Companys ADR programme.
investors or by charging the book-entry system accounts of participants acting for them.
The depositary may generally refuse to provide feeattracting services until its fee for those services are paid.
141 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview Accounts and other information Information for shareholders continued Persons depositing or withdrawing shares must pay: For: $5.00 or less per 100 ADSs or portion of 100 ADSs Issuance of ADSs, including issuances resulting from a distribution of shares or rights or other property Cancellation of ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal, including if the deposit agreement terminates $0.02 or less per ADS Any cash distribution to ADS registered holders, including payment of dividend A fee equivalent to the fee that would be payable if securities Distribution of securities distributed to holders of deposited securities distributed to holders had been shares and the shares had been which are distributed by the depositary to ADS registered holders deposited for issuance of ADSs $0.02 or less per ADS per calendar year Depositary services Registration or transfer fees Transfer and registration of shares on our share register to or from the name of the depositary or its agent when shares are deposited or withdrawn Taxes and other governmental charges the depositary or the custodian As necessary have to pay on any ADS or share underlying an ADS, for example, stock transfer taxes, stamp duty or withholding taxes Any charges incurred by the depositary or its agents for servicing the As necessary deposited securities A fee of 2 US cents per ADS was paid on the 2010 final dividend and a fee of 1 US cent per ADS was deducted from the 2011 first interim dividend paid in November.
In the period 1 January 2011 to 21 February 2012 the total reimbursed by The Bank of New York Mellon was $148,885.
