Accounts and other information Notes to the Group accounts continued Management has considered the following sensitivities: Growth of market and market share Management has considered the impact of a variance in market growth and market share.
The value-in-use calculation shows that if the assumed long-term growth rate was reduced to nil, the recoverable amount of all of the CGUs independently would still be greater than their carrying values.
Discount rate Management has considered the impact of an increase in the discount rate applied to the calculation.
The value-in-use calculation shows that for the recoverable amount of the CGU to be less than its carrying value, the discount rate would have to be increased to31% 2010 31% for the Orthopaedics business, 43% 2010 43% for the Endoscopy business and 51% 2010 53% for the Advanced Wound Management business.
9Intangible assets Accounting policies Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from a business combination including purchased patents, know-how, trademarks, licences and distribution rights are initially measured at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a material business combination referred to as acquisition intangibles is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The estimated useful economic life of an intangible asset ranges between three and 20 years depending on its nature.
Internally generated intangible assets are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
Purchased computer software and certain costs of information technology projects are capitalised as intangible assets.
Software that is integral to computer hardware is capitalised as plant and equipment.
Impairment of assets The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, its estimated future cash ow is discounted to its present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
In carrying out impairment reviews of intangible assets a number of significant assumptions have to be made when preparing cash ow projections.
These include the future rate of market growth, discount rates, the market demand for the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should differ, or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely impact operating results.
