Accounts and other information Business overview and Group history Smith & Nephews operations are organised into three primary business units that operate globally: Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
The Group has a history dating back over 150 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, UK in 1856.
On his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smith took over the management of the business.
By the late 1990s, Smith & Nephew had expanded into being a diverse healthcare conglomerate with operations across the globe, including various medical devices, personal care products and traditional and advanced woundcare treatments.
In 1998, Smith & Nephew announced a major restructuring to focus management attention and investment on three global business units advanced wound management, endoscopy and orthopaedics which offered high growth and margin opportunities.
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937 and in 1999 the Group was also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the London Stock Exchange measured in terms of market capitalisation.
Today, Smith & Nephew is a public limited company incorporated and headquartered in the UK and carries out business around the world.
Property, plant and equipment The table below summarises the main properties which the Group uses and their approximate areas.
Approximate area Square feet 000s Group head ofce in London, UK 15 Group research facility in York, UK 84 Orthopaedics headquarters and manufacturing facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, US 971 Orthopaedics distribution facility in Memphis, Tennessee, US 210 Orthopaedics manufacturing facility in Aarau, Switzerland 121 Orthopaedics manufacturing facility in Beijing, China Linhe 23 Orthopaedics manufacturing facility in Beijing, China 192 Orthopaedics manufacturing and warehouse facility in Warwick, UK 90 Orthopaedics manufacturing and warehouse facility in Tttlingen, Germany 64 Orthopaedics and Endoscopy distribution facility and Orthopaedics European headquarters in Baar, Switzerland 73 Orthopaedics Biologics Global Operations headquarters in Durham, North Carolina, US 27 Endoscopy headquarters in Andover, Massachusetts, US 144 Endoscopy manufacturing facility in Manseld, Massachusetts, US 98 Endoscopy manufacturing and distribution facility in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, US 155 Advanced Wound Management headquarters and manufacturing facility in Hull, UK 439 Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facility in Gilberdyke, UK 51 Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China 144 Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facility in Alberta, Canada 76 Advanced Wound Management US headquarters in St. Petersburg, Florida, US 44 The Group Global Operations strategy includes on-going assessment of the optimal facility footprint.
The Orthopaedics headquarters and manufacturing facilities in Memphis, Tennessee are largely freehold, a portion of Tuttlingen and the Advanced Wound Management facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke are freehold while other principal locations are leasehold.
The Group has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in other countries throughout the world, but no other is individually significant to the Group.
Where required, the appropriate governmental authorities have approved the facilities.
135 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
