Group overview Accounting policies Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Basis of preparation The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and all applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
These accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention modified to include revaluation of certain financial instruments, share options and pension assets and liabilities held at fair value.
The 31 July 2010 balance sheet has been restated.
Certain amounts owed to dormant and semi-dormant subsidiaries, previously netted off investments and advances, have been disclosed as creditors due after more than one year.
This has no effect on profit and loss, cash-flows, net current assets, net assets or shareholders equity.
The change in presentation has no effect on the balance sheet at 31 July 2011.
See note 3 for additional information.
As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys entity profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses have not been presented.
As permitted by Section 408 2 information about the Companys employee numbers and costs is not presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures not to disclose transactions with other wholly owned members of the Smiths Group.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the retranslation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Operating leases Payments made under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred over the term of the lease.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sub-let under terms such that the rental income is insufficient to meet all outgoings, provision is made for the anticipated future shortfall up to termination of the lease.
Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided at rates estimated to write off the relevant assets by equal annual amounts over their expected useful lives.
In general, the rates used are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2%: Short leasehold property over the period of the lease: Plant, machinery, etc.
10% to 20%: Fixtures, fittings, tools and other equipment 10% to 33%.
Fixed asset investments The Companys investments in shares in group companies are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
Financial instruments The policies disclosed in the Group accounting policies on pages 92 to 97 for recognition, measurement and presentation of financial instruments are applied in the Company accounts.
Where there are no differences between the disclosures required for the Group and the Company in respect of a class of financial instruments, an appropriate cross-reference is made to the Group accounts.
Taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed as at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as disclosed in the accounts, arising from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the accounts.
Deferred tax is not recognised on any fixed assets that have been revalued unless there is a binding agreement to sell the asset.
Provisions Provisions for disposal indemnities, restructuring costs, vacant leasehold property and legal claims are recognised when: the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event: it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is material.
133 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Accounting policies continued Post-retirement benefits The Company has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
For defined benefit plans the liability for each scheme recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of AA corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the income statement and are presented in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the Company pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
Contributions are expensed as incurred.
The Company also has certain post-retirement healthcare schemes which are accounted for on a similar basis to the defined benefit plans.
Share-based payment The Company operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the shares or share options granted is recognised over the vesting period to reflect the value of the employee services received.
The charge relating to grants to employees of the Company is recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account and the charge for grants to employees of other group companies is recognised as an investment in the relevant subsidiary.
The fair value of options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions, is calculated using established option pricing models, principally Binomial models.
The probability of meeting non-market vesting conditions, which include profitability targets, is used to estimate the number of share options which are likely to vest.
For cash-settled share-based payment a liability is recognised based on the fair value of the payment earned by the balance sheet date.
For equity-settled share-based payment the corresponding credit is recognised directly in reserves.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are authorised.
The interim dividend is recognised when it is paid and the final dividend is recognised when it has been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
134 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
