Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information k Leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
l Share-based payments Equity-settled awards under share-based incentive plans are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the performance period along with a corresponding increase in equity.
Fair value is measured using an option pricing model taking into consideration managements best estimate of the expected life of the option and the estimated number of shares that will eventually vest.
m Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to recover the asset.
Deferred tax is not recognised where an asset or liability is acquired in a transaction which is not a business combination for an amount which differs from its tax value.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
n Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group does not currently utilise derivative financial instruments.
Other than the convertible bonds there are no material financial assets and liabilities for which differences between carrying amounts and fair values are required to be disclosed.
The classification of financial instruments as required by IFRS 7 is disclosed in Notes 18, 21, 22 and 23.
Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss Where a financial instrument is classified as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss it is initially recognised at fair value.
At each balance sheet date the fair value is reviewed and any gain or loss arising is recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the net present value of the financial asset arising from discounting are included in other gains and losses.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables Trade payables are stated at their nominal value.
Convertible bonds The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity component at the date of issue.
The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not remeasured.
The liability component is carried at amortised cost.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
Upon redemption of convertible bonds, in accordance with their terms at inception, the carrying amount of the liability is adjusted through the income statement to match the redemption amount.
Where bonds are repurchased in the market, the repurchase cost is allocated between the repurchased liability and the repurchased embedded option to convert, using the same method described above.
The difference between the amount allocated to the liability and the carrying amount of the liability is recorded in the income statement, and the amount allocated to the repurchase of the embedded option to convert is debited to equity.
SOCO International plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
