nOteS tO tHe COnSOlIdAted FInAnCIAl StAtementS continued 17 Fixed asset investments Principal Group investments The Company and the Group had investments in the following subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2011 which principally affected the profits or net assets of the Group, all of which are indirectly held.
Percentage Country of incorporation Country of operation Principal activity holding OPECO Vietnam Limited Cook Islands Vietnam Oil and gas exploration 100 1 SOCO Congo Limited Cayman Islands Congo Brazzaville Investment holding 85 2 SOCO DRC Limited Cayman Islands Congo Kinshasa Investment holding 85 3 SOCO Vietnam Ltd Cayman Islands Vietnam Oil and gas exploration and production 80 1 SOCO Congo Limited SOCO Congo owns 100% of SOCO Exploration and Production Congo SA which holds the Groups working interest in its Congo Brazzaville asset.
The Group funds 100% of SOCO Congo and is entitled to receive 100% of the distributions made by SOCO Congo until it has recovered such funding including a rate of return.
The 15% non-controlling interest is held by Quantic Limited.
2 SOCO DRC Limited SOCO DRC owns 99% of SOCO Exploration and Production DRC Sprl which holds the Groups working interest in its Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa asset.
The Group funds 100% of SOCO DRC and is entitled to receive 100% of the distributions made by SOCO DRC until it has recovered such funding including a rate of return.
3 The remaining 20% non-controlling interest is funded by the Group.
The Group is entitled to receive 100% of the distributions made by SOCO Vietnam until it has recovered its funding of the non-controlling interest including a rate of return on the non-controlling interests pro rata portion of those distributions.
The Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings include contributions to the SOCO Employee Benefit Trust see Note 26 and are otherwise held in the form of share capital.
18 Financial asset In 2005, the Group disposed of its Mongolia interest to Daqing Oilfield Limited Company.
Under the terms of the transaction the Group will receive a subsequent payment amount of up to $52.7 million, once cumulative production reaches 27.8 million barrels of oil, at the rate of 20% of the average monthly posted marker price for Daqing crude multiplied by the aggregate production for that month.
The subsequent payment amount is included in non-current assets as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss.
The timescale for the production of crude oil in excess of 27.8 million barrels and the price of Daqing marker crude oil are factors that cannot accurately be predicted.
However, based upon the Directors current estimates of proven and probable reserves from the Mongolia interests and the development scenarios as discussed with the buyer, the Directors believe that the full subsequent payment amount will be payable.
The fair value of the subsequent payment amount was determined using a valuation technique as there is no active market against which direct comparisons can be made Level 3 as defined in IFRS 7.
Assumptions made in calculating the fair value include the factors mentioned above, risked as appropriate, with the resultant cash flows discounted at a commercial risk free interest rate.
The fair value of the financial asset at the date of completion of the sale was $31.5 million.
As at 31 December 2011 the fair value was $40.6 million 2010 $37.4 million after accounting for the change in fair value see Note 7.
SOCO International plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
