Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 28 Incentive plans Details of the Groups employee incentive schemes are set out below.
Additional information regarding the schemes is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 67.
The Group recognised total expenses of $975,000 2010 $865,000 in respect of the schemes during the year, a proportion of which was capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Company operates a LTIP for senior employees of the Group.
Awards vest over a period of three years, subject to performance criteria which have been set with reference to the Companys total shareholder return TSR relative to a range of comparator companies.
Consideration may also be given to assessment as to whether the TSR performance is consistent with underlying performance.
Awards are normally forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the award vests.
Awards normally expire at the end of 10 years following the date of grant, subject to the requirement to exercise certain awards prior to 15 March of the year following vesting.
Awards would normally be equity-settled through a transfer at nil consideration of the Companys own ordinary shares Shares held by the SOCO Employee Benefit Trust Trust see Note 26.
No awards were exercised during the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Company has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle awards in cash.
Details of awards outstanding during the year are as follows: 2011 2010 No.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.0 2010 2.2 years.
The weighted average market price and estimated fair value of the 2011 grants at grant date were 2.97 and 0.856, respectively.
The fair value of awards at date of grant has been estimated using a binomial option pricing model, based on the market price at date of grant set out above and a nil exercise price.
The future vesting proportion of 28.9% was estimated by calculating the expected probability of the Companys TSR ranking relative to its comparators based on modelling each companys projected future share price growth.
Share options The Company operated a discretionary share option scheme for key employees of the Group which expired in April 2007 without prejudice to the subsisting rights of participants.
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Companys Shares on the date of grant.
The vesting period is three years, subject to performance criteria based on the Companys TSR relative to a range of comparator companies.
Unexercised options expire at the end of a seven or 10 year period, in accordance with the plan rules.
Options are normally forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
During 2009, the Company established a new discretionary share option scheme.
As at 31 December 2011, no awards had been made under that scheme.
Options would normally be equity-settled through newly issued Shares.
The Company has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle options in cash.
Details of options outstanding during the year are as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average No.
of share exercise price No.
Options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.9 2010 2.7 years.
SOCO International plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
