Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information nOteS tO tHe COnSOlIdAted FInAnCIAl StAtementS 01 general information SOCO International plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given on page 99.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 6 and in the Review of Operations and Financial Review on pages 20 to 26 and 28 to 30, respectively.
02 Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with, and comply with, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and on a going concern basis of accounting for the reasons set out in the Annual Report of the Directors on page 49 and in the Financial Review on page 30.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for the valuation of hydrocarbon inventory and the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars as it is the functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiary undertakings and is generally accepted practice in the oil and gas sector.
The functional currency of the Company remains GB pounds although its financial statements are presented in US dollars to be consistent with the Group.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
b Adoption of new and revised accounting standards At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the European Union : IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except as follows: IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments IFRS 13 will impact the measurement of fair value for certain assets and liabilities as well as the associated disclosures.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
c Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of SOCO International plc and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the balance sheet date.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method whereby the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and the consideration given are recognised in the Group accounts at their fair values as at the date of the acquisition.
d Investments Except as stated below, non-current investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Liquid investments comprise short term liquid investments of between three to six months maturity.
e Interests in joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those for which the Group exercises joint control over the operating and financial policies.
These investments are dealt with by proportionate consolidation whereby the consolidated financial statements include the appropriate share of these companies assets, liabilities, income and expenses on a line by line basis.
Where a consolidated member of the Group participates in unincorporated joint ventures, that member accounts directly for its share of the jointly controlled assets, liabilities and related income and expenses which are then similarly included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
f Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and no depreciation is charged.
SOCO International plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
