Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Commodity price risk The Groups production is usually sold on spot or near term contracts, with prices fixed at the time of a transfer of custody or on the basis of a monthly average market price.
However the Board may give consideration in certain circumstances to the appropriateness of entering into fixed price, long term marketing contracts.
Although oil prices may fluctuate widely, it is the Groups policy not to hedge crude oil sales unless hedging is required to mitigate financial risks associated with debt financing of its assets or to meet its commitments.
Over time, during periods when the Group sees an opportunity to lock in attractive oil prices, it may engage in limited price hedging.
Regulatory risk The Group operates in countries with emerging taxation and other regulatory regimes.
The compliance with and interpretation of these taxation and other regulations may expose the Group to risk.
The Group seeks to minimise such risk by using in country professional advisors and by engaging directly with the relevant authorities where appropriate.
Contractual risk The Group enters into various contractual arrangements in the ordinary course of its business.
Such contracts may rely on provisional information that is subject to further negotiation at a later date.
This may give rise to uncertainty regarding such information.
In considering any financial impact on the Groups financial statements, income, expenses, assets and liabilities are recognised in accordance with applicable IFRS and IAS.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt see Note 23, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 25, 26 and 27 and in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
During the year the Company purchased 1,497,852 of its own ordinary shares, of 0.05 each, into treasury see Note 26 and repurchased and cancelled convertible bonds with a par value of $35.4 million see Note 23.
04 Critical judgements and accounting estimates a Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies described in Note 2, management has made judgements that may have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
These are discussed below: Oil and gas assets Note 2 h describes the judgements necessary to implement the Groups policy with respect to the carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets and tangible property, plant and equipment.
Management considers these assets for impairment at least annually with reference to indicators in IFRS 6 and IAS 36, respectively.
In particular, capitalised expenditure relating to Block 16-1 in Vietnam is considered to be one cash generating unit due to the level of economic and management interdependence.
Note 15 discloses the carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets and Note 16 discloses the carrying value of property, plant and equipment.
Further, Note 2 h describes the Groups policy regarding reclassification of intangible assets to tangible assets.
Management considers the appropriateness of asset classification at least annually.
Financial asset Note 2 n describes the accounting policy with respect to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The key judgements that are used in calculating the fair value of the Groups financial asset arising on the disposal of its Mongolia interest are described in Note 18 and are reviewed at least annually.
The only market risk assumption that has a significant impact on the fair value of this asset is the discount rate, as described in Note 3.
Convertible bonds Note 2 n sets out the Groups accounting policy on convertible bonds.
Management assesses the fair value of the liability component at issue and reviews the appropriateness of the amortisation period at least annually.
Note 2 h describes the nature of the costs that the Group capitalises which include applicable borrowing costs that are directly attributable to qualifying assets as defined in IAS 23 Borrowing Costs IAS 23.
Management has considered the definition of qualifying assets in IAS 23 and has determined that the only expenditure that met the definition was that related to the Groups interests in Vietnam.
Consequently, the interest associated with capital expenditure in Vietnam has been capitalised up to the date at which such qualifying assets entered into production.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, other than those mentioned above, that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below: Oil and gas reserves Note 2 h sets out the Groups accounting policy on depreciation and depletion.
Proven and probable reserves are estimated using standard recognised evaluation techniques.
The estimate is reviewed at least twice a year and is regularly reviewed by independent consultants.
Future development costs are estimated taking into account the level of development required to produce the reserves by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
Decommissioning provision The accounting policy for decommissioning is discussed in Note 2 h. The cost of decommissioning is estimated by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
Further details are provided in Note 24.
SOCO International plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
