nOteS tO tHe COnSOlIdAted FInAnCIAl StAtementS continued 02 Significant accounting policies continued Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments repurchased are deducted from equity at cost.
o Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are stated in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currency are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date, or if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
Any resulting gains and losses are included in net profit or loss for the period.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements the results of entities denominated in currencies other than US dollars are translated at the average rate of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening net assets and results of entities denominated in currencies other than US dollars are dealt with through equity and transferred to the Groups retained earnings reserve.
p Pension costs The contributions payable in the year in respect of pension costs for defined contribution schemes and other post-retirement benefits are charged to the income statement.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
03 Financial risk management The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing financial risks that may affect the Group.
In certain cases the Board delegates responsibility for such reviews and policy setting to the Audit Committee.
The main financial risks affecting the Group are discussed below: Credit risk The Groups non-current financial asset that is subject to credit risk comprises a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss arising in respect of the Groups disposal of its Mongolia interest see Note 18.
The Groups and Companys other financial assets comprise investments, trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group seeks to minimise credit risk by only maintaining balances with creditworthy third parties including major multi-national oil companies subject to contractual terms in respect of trade receivables.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited as the Board only selects institutions with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies and endeavours to spread cash balances and liquid investments over more than one institution.
The level of deposits held by different institutions is regularly reviewed.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December 2011 was $277.1 million 2010 $319.4 million.
Foreign currency risk The Group primarily conducts and manages its business in US dollars.
Cash balances in Group subsidiaries are usually held in US dollars, but smaller amounts may be held in GB pounds or local currencies to meet immediate operating or administrative expenses, or to comply with local currency regulations.
From time to time the Group may take short term hedging positions to protect the value of any cash balances it holds in non-US dollar currencies.
The impact of a 10% movement in foreign exchange rates on the Groups net assets as at 31 December 2011 would not have been material 2010 $11.0 million and would not have been material with respect to the Groups profit in 2011 and 2010.
Liquidity risk The Groups cash requirements and balances are projected for the Group as a whole and for each country in which operations and capital expenditures are conducted.
The Group meets these requirements through an appropriate mix of available funds, equity instruments and debt financing.
The Groups ability to satisfy its debt obligations and to pursue its operational objectives are discussed in the Risk Management Report.
The Group seeks to minimise the impact that any debt financings have on its balance sheet by negotiating borrowings in matching currencies see Note 23.
The Group further mitigates liquidity risk by entering into arrangements with industry partners thereby sharing costs and risks, and by maintaining an insurance programme to minimise exposure to insurable losses.
Interest rate risk The Group earns interest on its cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments at floating and fixed rates.
Fixed rate interest is charged on the Groups convertible bonds see Note 23.
The fair value of the Groups non-current financial asset see Note 18 is also dependent on the discount rate used.
Management assesses the Groups sensitivity to changes in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher or lower and all other variables held constant, the Groups profit for the year ended, and its net assets at, 31 December 2011 would decrease or increase by $2.1 million 2010 $2.7 million.
SOCO International plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
