nOteS tO tHe COnSOlIdAted FInAnCIAl StAtementS continued 02 Significant accounting policies continued g Revenue Revenue represents the fair value of the Groups share of oil and gas sold during the year on an entitlement basis.
To the extent revenue arises from test production during an evaluation programme, an amount is charged from evaluation costs to cost of sales so as to reflect a zero net margin.
Investment revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
h Tangible and intangible non-current assets Oil and gas exploration, evaluation and development expenditure The Group uses the full cost method of accounting for exploration, evaluation and development expenditure, whereby all expenditures incurred in connection with the acquisition, exploration, evaluation and development of oil and gas assets, including directly attributable overheads, interest payable and exchange differences directly related to financing development projects, are capitalised in separate geographical cost pools.
Cost pools are established on the basis of geographical area having regard to the operational and financial organisation of the Group.
Intangible acquisition, exploration and evaluation costs incurred in a geographical area where the Group has no established cost pool are initially capitalised as intangible non-current assets except where they fall outside the scope of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources whereby they are expensed as incurred subject to other guidance under IFRS.
Tangible non-current assets used in acquisition, exploration and evaluation are classified with tangible non-current assets as property, plant and equipment.
To the extent that such tangible assets are consumed in exploration and evaluation the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Upon successful conclusion of the appraisal programme and determination that commercial reserves exist, such costs are transferred to tangible non-current assets as property, plant and equipment.
Exploration and evaluation costs carried forward are assessed for impairment as described below.
Proceeds from the disposal of oil and gas assets are credited against the relevant cost centre.
Any overall surplus arising in a cost centre is credited to the income statement.
Depreciation and depletion Depletion is provided on oil and gas assets in production using the unit of production method, based on proven and probable reserves, applied to the sum of the total capitalised exploration, evaluation and development costs, together with estimated future development costs at current prices.
Oil and gas assets which have a similar economic life are aggregated for depreciation purposes.
Impairment of value Where there has been a change in economic conditions or in the expected use of a tangible non-current asset that indicates a possible impairment in an asset, management tests the recoverability of the net book value of the asset by comparison with the estimated discounted future net cash flows based on managements expectations of future oil prices and future costs.
Any identified impairment is charged to the income statement.
Intangible non-current assets are considered for impairment at least annually by reference to the indicators in IFRS 6.
Where there is an indication of impairment of an exploration and evaluation asset which is within a geographic pool where the Group has tangible oil and gas assets with commercial reserves, the exploration asset is assessed for impairment together with all other cash generating units and related tangible and intangible assets in that geographic pool and any balance remaining after impairment is amortised over the proven and probable reserves of the pool.
Where the exploration asset is in an area where the Group has no established pool, the exploration asset is tested for impairment separately and, where determined to be impaired, is written off.
Other tangible non-current assets Other tangible non-current assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost of those assets, less residual value, over their expected useful lives of three to seven years.
Decommissioning The decommissioning provision is calculated as the net present value of the Groups share of the expenditure which is expected to be incurred at the end of the producing life of each field in the removal and decommissioning of the production, storage and transportation facilities currently in place.
The cost of recognising the decommissioning provision is included as part of the cost of the relevant property, plant and equipment and is thus charged to the income statement on a unit of production basis in accordance with the Groups policy for depletion and depreciation of tangible non-current assets.
Period charges for changes in the net present value of the decommissioning provision arising from discounting are included in finance costs.
i Changes in estimates The effects of changes in estimates on the unit of production calculations are accounted for prospectively over the estimated remaining proven and probable reserves of each pool.
j Inventories Inventories, except for inventories of hydrocarbons, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Physical inventories of hydrocarbons, which are held for trading purposes, are valued at net realisable value and recorded as inventory.
Underlifts and overlifts are valued at market value and are included in prepayments and accrued income and accruals and deferred income, respectively.
Changes in hydrocarbon inventories, underlifts and overlifts are adjusted through cost of sales.
SOCO International plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
