overview business review governance financial statements 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Critical accounting assumptions and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported.
Such estimates and assumptions are based on managements best knowledge of current facts, circumstances and future events, actual results may differ, possibly significantly, from those estimates.
The areas requiring a high degree of judgement or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are discussed below.
Goodwill impairment The Group tests annually by cash-generating unit whether goodwill has suffered impairment and more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value in use calculations which require the use of estimates and assumptions.
These are described in note 13.
Defined benefit pension plans The pension cost and the defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension plans are based on a number of selected assumptions, these include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth, longevity and expected return on the plans assets.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in future periods.
The effect of changing these assumptions is described in note 9.
Revenue recognition For revenue recognition purposes contractual arrangements are accounted for as two or more separate transactions only where the commercial substance is that the individual components operate independently of each other, because they are capable of being provided separately from one another and it is possible to attribute reliable fair values to every component.
To the extent that a separate component comprises a product sale of hardware or software, revenue is recognised as described above.
Revenue is recognised on other components as the Group fulfils its contractual obligations and to the extent that it has earned the right to consideration.
Management exercises a degree of judgement in setting the criteria used for determining when revenue which involves several elements should be recognised and the fair values allocated to each element.
Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of tax jurisdictions and judgement is applied in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions for which the final tax determinability is uncertain.
For example liabilities are recognised for anticipated tax audit issues based on whether additional taxes are likely to be due based on the facts and circumstances known at the time the financial statements are prepared.
Where the final outcome differs from the amounts that were initially recorded the differences will be recorded in the future period in which the determination is made.
Deferred taxes The extent to which deferred tax assets can be recognised is based on current forecasts and estimates prepared by management.
A change to these forecasts and estimates could result in a different recognition outcome.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are disclosed in note 21.
