overview business review governance financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Trade and other debtors Trade debtors, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Provisions Provisions are recorded when the Company has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event for which it is probable that it will be required to settle by an outflow of resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision shall be the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company, the revenue can be reliably measured and when the Company has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
In addition, revenue is only recognised when collectability is probable.
For the sale of services, revenue is recognised in accounting periods in which the service is rendered.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange gains and losses are taken to the profit and loss account.
Product development Expenditure is charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Companys balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Equity instruments Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Company uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts to manage exposures arising on receipts and payments in foreign currencies relating to firm commitments.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reported balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The Company has not adopted the hedge accounting rules.
Consequently all gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the profit and loss account.
