spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above.
There are no bank overdrafts.
Trade payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at the original invoiced amount.
Equity instruments Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Spirent Communications plc Ordinary Shares held by the Group are classified in equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost and included as a deduction from retained earnings.
Consideration received for the sale of such treasury shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to retained earnings.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts to manage exposures arising on receipts and payments in foreign currencies relating to firm commitments.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reported balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The Group has not adopted the hedge accounting rules ever since the decision was taken to change the reporting currency in 2010.
Consequently all gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
Retirement benefits The Group operates two funded defined benefit pension plans which are in the United Kingdom, all other pension plans are defined contribution in nature.
For the defined contribution plans the amount charged to the income statement is the employers contributions paid or payable during the year.
For defined benefit pension plans full actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method, and updates are performed at each balance sheet date.
The cost of providing benefits under these plans is determined separately for each plan, and attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost, and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligations.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period or immediately if the benefits have vested.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued, or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the plan membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
