Business review Operational review continued Our Leased pubs Our plan for the Leased business is to maximise operating performance and Leased like for like net Our Leased estate of over 500 pubs is one of the highest quality in the UK.
cash generation whilst converting up income was down 4.1% to 100 pubs to our Managed brands These well located pubs, the majority with a much improved of which were formerly Managed sites, over the next few years.
This process is second half decline underway: three pubs were converted have an average net income of 97,000. of 1.9%.
over the summer and additional sites have been identified for conversion by After a number of difficult years, we were pleased with the improved trading Christmas.
In the longer term, we plan to sell any pubs which are not suitable performance in 2010 11.
Like for like net income was down 4.1% with a for conversion and use the proceeds to invest in the Managed business and much improved second half decline of 1.9%.
Average net income was down reduce debt.
only 2.0% reflecting both pub disposals and improving trading trends.
This Capital structure and cash flow improvement reflects the success of Our strong operating performance led the Pathway to Partnership programme to a net cash inflow of 48m, after combined with selective investments capital expenditure of 78m, and an in the estate and the decision to pass overall improvement in the financial on price increases from the major position of the Group.
At the year end, brewers at the end of February 2011. net debt was 704m, with a net debt 1 1 EBITDA for the Leased business to EBITDA ratio of 5.0 times.
declined 3% to 42m, after a 4% reduction in pub numbers.
Operating Within the Spirit securitisation, net debt cash flow was strong and supported was 817m and the DSCR was 1.7 times capital expenditure of 6m.
at year end, a marked improvement on the 1.57 times at August 2010.
At this level we can now upstream cash to plc, a position that has been reached ahead of previous expectations.
com 14 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011 18% 1 Increase in earnings per share.
Group cash and bonds, outside of the securitisation, were 114m at the year end.
These resources will be used to fund plc cash outflows e. g. onerous leases, pensions, invest in the growth of the business, make dividend payments to shareholders, consistent with the policy set out at the time of the demerger, and potentially to fund market repurchases of bonds.
Key objectives for the Group are to further reduce the Group net debt to 1 EBITDA ratio and to further improve the debt service cover ratio DSCR within the securitisation.
In this context, our target is to be cash neutral in 2011 12 after funding further capital expenditure and dividend payments, but before any bond repurchases.
This will require a continuation of the successful disposal programme of the last few years across both the Managed and Leased estates.
Disposals in 2010 11 generated 29m of cash proceeds.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 15 Business review
