spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued 15.
Capital and reserves continued All Employee plans UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS and the 2005 Sharesave Scheme The SRSOS closed in 2005 and was replaced by the 2005 Sharesave Scheme.
SRSOS options which remain outstanding may still be exercised prior to expiry, however no further grants can be made.
Both schemes operate as HMRC approved Save-As-You-Earn schemes and are open to all UK employees, subject to a qualifying service period.
Any future sharesave invitations will be made under the 2005 Sharesave Scheme, which is broadly similar to the SRSOS.
No price is payable on the grant of an option.
The option exercise price is calculated by reference to the middle market closing price of an Ordinary Share on the business day prior to the beginning of the invitation period, discounted by up to 20 per cent at the Boards discretion.
Options are normally exercisable within six months of the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the contract commencement date as elected by the option holder at the start of the contract.
The Company operates the SST to honour the commitment to deliver Ordinary Shares against the exercise of outstanding options under the SRSOS.
Spirent Sharesave Trust Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Spirent Communications plc, acts as sole trustee of the SST.
During the year, no Ordinary Shares were transferred to participants 2010 0.1 million Ordinary Shares.
No invitations have been made under either of these schemes since 2003 and there are no options outstanding at 31 December 2011.
UK Employee Share Purchase Plan UK ESPP The UK ESPP, which is an HMRC approved share incentive plan, was approved by shareholders in 2005 and is available to all UK employees.
The UK ESPP offers three ways to provide Ordinary Shares to employees: free shares, partnership shares and matching shares.
The UK ESPP operates in conjunction with a trust, which holds the shares on behalf of participants.
In November 2010, the Company commenced making invitations to all UK employees to acquire Partnership shares on market using deductions from payroll.
Share-based payment The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans is as follows: 2011 2010 million million 2005 Employee Incentive Plan 0.3 0.1 All schemes are equity-settled.
No share incentives were granted during 2010.
For 2011 the fair value of share incentives has been estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model.
