overview business review governance financial statements 25.
Financial instruments and financial risk management The main purpose of the Groups financial instruments, other than trade receivables, trade payables and provisions is to fund the Groups liquidity requirements.
All the Groups financial assets and liabilities are categorised as loans and receivables with the exception of the derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair value.
These are shown in the following table: 2011 2010 $ million $ million Loans and Derivative Loans and Derivative receivables financial receivables financial at amortised instruments at amortised instruments cost at fair value cost at fair value Non-current cash on deposit note 19 0.7 1.1 Non-current other receivables note 18 3.0 3.4 Cash and cash equivalents note 19 236.5 223.9 Current trade and other receivables note 18 98.5 85.2 Financial assets 338.7 313.6 Non-current other payables note 22 1.5 1.4 Current trade payables note 20 21.5 27.0 Accruals 45.7 48.6 Share buyback obligation note 20 7.8 Provisions note 23 4.5 7.6 Currency derivatives that are not designated hedges note 24 0.2 Financial liabilities 81.0 84.6 0.2 The Group enters into derivative transactions, forward foreign currency exchange contracts, for the management of the Groups foreign currency exposures when deemed appropriate.
The key objective of the Groups treasury department is to manage the financial risks of the business and to ensure that sufficient liquidity is available to the Group.
All treasury activity operates within a formal control framework.
The Board has approved treasury policies and guidelines and periodically reviews treasury activities.
Additionally, it is the Groups policy that speculative treasury transactions are expressly forbidden.
a Market risk The main types of market risk that affect the Group are interest rate risk and exchange rate risk.
Interest rate risk The Group has no external debt and has limited exposure to interest rate risk.
The Groups excess funds are principally held in the United Kingdom and the United States and invested in on demand or short term bank deposits.
It therefore has some exposure to interest rate risk arising on changes in sterling and US dollar interest rates.
Cash and cash equivalents, long term cash on deposit and forward foreign currency exchange contracts are the Groups financial instruments which are exposed to interest rate risk.
89 spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Financial instruments and financial risk management continued Short term bank deposits all mature within three months.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts all mature within three months.
The financial instruments bear the following interest rates: Effective Effective interest rate 2011 interest rate 2010 % $ million % $ million Fixed rate Fixed deposits 0.39 59.1 0.40 97.5 Forward foreign currency exchange contracts 0.2 59.1 97.3 Floating rate Cash at bank and in hand 177.4 126.4 Interest rates on financial instruments classified as fixed rate are fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
All fixed rate deposits mature within three months after which date they will be exposed to floating rates of interest.
In addition, $0.7 million 2010 $1.1 million was held in a blocked trust account and was earning interest of 0.77 per cent at 31 December 2011 2010 0.71 per cent.
The maturity of the deposit is three months, at maturity the interest rate will be reset.
This cash must be retained in the blocked trust account in accordance with the terms of the undertakings made at the time of the cancellation of the share premium account and capital redemption reserve the Cancellation in 2004.
The funds must remain in this account until creditors which existed at the date of the Cancellation have been repaid and therefore the maturity of this account is uncertain.
Interest receivable for the year was $1.0 million note 6 2010 $0.8 million and is under the effective interest method.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above table are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
A movement of 25 basis points in interest rates based on levels of investment at 31 December 2011 would increase or reduce interest income and equity by $0.5 million.
Exchange rate risk Currency exposures arise from trading transactions undertaken by the Group in foreign currencies and on the translation of the operating results and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The Group has the majority of its operations in the United States and chose, with effect from 1 January 2010, to present its consolidated financial statements in US dollars.
The Companys functional currency is sterling and its share capital is denominated in pounds sterling, the Group also has operations in Europe and Asia and therefore its results and assets and liabilities are affected on translation by movements in exchange rates in relation to the US dollar.
The Group does not enter into instruments to hedge the translation exposure of the operating results or net assets of its overseas subsidiaries since these are considered accounting and not cash exposures.
The Group is not exposed to significant transactional foreign currency risk at 31 December 2011, nor at 31 December 2010, because the majority of its businesses do not enter into non-functional currency transactions.
Where such transactions do occur the Group typically enters into forward foreign currency exchange contracts as appropriate.
Group treasury, by means of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, carries out the transaction hedging activity in relation to normal trading activity.
At 31 December 2011 the Group has hedged its financial assets and liabilities in relation to trading which are denominated in non-functional currencies.
However, the Group holds cash balances in non-functional currencies which are exposed to US dollar to sterling exchange rates.
