Financial statements Notes to the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 20 August 2011 continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Where assets are transferred between segments or disposed, the goodwill attributable to these assets is also transferred or charged to the income statement respectively.
Goodwill carried in the balance sheet is not amortised.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired, the gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Operating leases and other intangible assets The fair values attached to operating head leasehold interests on acquisitions are deemed to represent lease premiums, and are carried as intangible assets.
These operating leases together with other intangible assets are capitalised at cost.
Payments made on entering into or acquiring operating leases are accounted for as intangible assets and amortised over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Property, plant and equipment Landlords fixtures and fittings include removable items, which are generally regarded as within landlord ownership.
These are depreciated in accordance with the policy detailed below.
Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual values, by equal annual instalments as follows: Licensed properties, unlicensed properties and owner-occupied properties 50 years or the life of the lease if shorter Landlords fixtures and fittings, office furniture and fittings and motor vehicles 5 to 15 years Information technology equipment 3 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
An annual assessment of residual values is performed and there is no depreciable amount if residual values are the same as, or more than, book value.
Residual values are based on the estimated amount that would be currently obtainable from disposal of the asset net of disposal costs if the asset were already of the age and condition expected at the end of its useful life.
58 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
