Governance Report on Directors remuneration continued Introduction time, whether the appointment of HNBS remains appropriate This report has been prepared in accordance with the or should be put out to tender as part of its effectiveness requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies review.
In addition, Computershare Investor Services plc and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 provides administration services connected to the Groups the Regulations.
The report also meets the relevant Executive and all-employee share plans.
The Committee also requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services consults with the Chief Executive Officer, the Company Authority, and describes how the Board has complied Secretary and the Director of Human Resources.
However, with the provisions of the Code relating to remuneration no Director is permitted to participate in discussions or matters.
decisions about their personal remuneration.
The report is divided into two parts.
The first part contains Remuneration policy the commentary on remuneration policy which is not The Committees remuneration policy is designed to help required to be audited.
The second part contains the drive business performance and maximise shareholder remuneration tables that have been audited in accordance value from the demerger.
In order to align the interests with the relevant statutory requirements.
of the Executive Directors and other members of executive management team with shareholders, the Committee Unaudited information has developed a remuneration policy which achieves an appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay.
The Remuneration Committee The members of the Committee comprise Tony Rice Accordingly, a significant proportion of remuneration is linked to the achievement of challenging short and Chairman of the Committee, Walker Boyd, Mark Pain and Christopher Bell.
The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing There are five main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and executive management which with the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman and such are explained in detail below: base salary: other members of the executive management team as it is designated to consider.
The Committee, within the terms benefits: pension: of the agreed policy, determines the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director and annual bonus: and long term incentives.
agreed members of the executive management team.
In addition, the Committee ensures that provisions regarding In future the Committee will review its policy on an annual disclosure of remuneration are fulfilled.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the remuneration basis in light of market conditions, performance, strategy, key performance indicators, the structure and levels of and incentives for the Executive Directors, members of the executive management team and the Chairman and remuneration across the Group and developments in corporate governance and best practice.
The Committee monitors the consistency and rigour of their implementation.
will also consider the level of environmental, social and The Committee also oversees the remuneration policy governance risk associated with the remuneration policy of the Group and ensures that no Director is involved in to ensure that there are sufficient safeguards in this regard.
decisions as to his or her own remuneration.
The Committee is constituted in accordance with the recommendations Base salary and benefits of the Code.
During the period, only one meeting of the Committee took place which focused on the Committees Base salaries and pension provision have been set by reference to pre-existing remuneration no increases were terms of reference: outcomes for legacy bonus plans: targets and quantum for annual bonus plans: documentation for new awarded at demerger.
The table below shows the current Executive Director base salaries: share incentive plans: and Executive Director remuneration.
Base Advisers to the Committee Name Position salary The Committee received independent remuneration Ian Dyson Chief Executive Officer 675,000 advice from Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, part of Deputy Chief Executive Aon Corporation during the period.
This independent adviser Mike Tye Officer 410,000 was appointed by the Committee and is accountable to it.
Russell Margerrison Interim Finance Director 250,000 Aon Corporation also provide consulting advice to the Group in respect of its pension schemes and actuarial, investment On his promotion to Chief Executive Officer, Mike Tyes and other advice to the pension scheme trustees.
The salary will increase to 475,000.
Russell Margerrisons Committee does not believe that the independence of its interim appointment will finish shortly with the appointment adviser is compromised by these other appointments.
The of a permanent successor, Paddy Gallagher who joins on terms of engagement between the Committee and HNBS are 7 November 2011.
Paddy Gallaghers salary will be 325,000. available from the Company Secretary on request.
HNBS are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Code and have Base salary levels will be reviewed next in March 2012 provided a statement confirming their independence.
In line and annually thereafter.
with best practice, the Committee will assess, from time to 40 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
