Accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amount.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Receivables are written off against the doubtful debt provision when management deems the debt to be no longer recoverable.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost calculated on a first in first out basis and net realisable value.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are not depreciated.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale and completion should be expected within one year from the date of classification.
Dividend distribution Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the Groups and the Companys financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Non-underlying items In order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance, profit is presented excluding items which management consider will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-underlying nature or as a result of specific accounting treatments.
Further detail on the nature of non-underlying items is included in note 6.
Significant accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgements including those relating to income taxes, deferred tax, financial instruments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, valuations, provisions and post-employment benefits.
Management bases its estimates and judgements on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are detailed below.
Goodwill impairment The Group assesses whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis.
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated is determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
These assumptions are disclosed in note 13.
Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 61 Financial statements
