Governance Nomination & Governance Committee report The members of the Nomination & Governance Committee Company and considers whether, despite any such conflict, the Committee comprise Walker Boyd Chairman of the there are nevertheless grounds for recommending the Committee, Tony Rice, Mark Pain and Christopher Bell.
The terms of reference of the Committee state that it will meet at least once annually and then, as and when On appointment, the Chairman together with the Company required and that the executive management team, together Secretary and executive management team ensures that with the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary, each new director receives a tailored induction programme are permitted to be invited to attend for part or all of each that includes: meeting.
During the period, only one meeting of the individual time with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Committee took place which discussed the appointment Officer and other members of the Board and executive of Christopher Bell as Non-executive Director.
management team: meetings with the Companys external advisers, The main purpose of the Committee is to review the structure, substantial shareholders, brokers and lawyers: size and composition including the skills, knowledge and an internal induction course which introduces the Group, experience of the Board and make recommendations to its divisions and its employees: the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed visits to the Groups Managed and Leased pubs and necessary.
Other areas of responsibility include: those of competitors: and consideration of the Companys succession plans which external training courses, if required.
are in place for Board members and the executive management team: Performance evaluation the identification, evaluation and nomination of candidates In order to ensure Board effectiveness, the Committee to fill Board vacancies: is also responsible for carrying out an annual performance reviewing Directors conflicts of interests and making evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual recommendations to the Board to authorise such conflicts Directors.
The Committee makes recommendations to the where applicable: and Board as regards succession planning for both Executive regularly reviewing the membership of the Companys and Non-executive Directors.
The Committee takes into committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group upon certain individuals.
and what skills and expertise will be needed on the Board in the future.
Appointments to the Board The Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in the During the first three months, the Board has not evaluated selection and appointment of Directors.
When considering itself, given the short period of time it has been in existence.
new appointments the Company has a formal, rigorous and However, it is planned that the Board will undergo a formal transparent procedure which is based on merit and against evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees objective criteria including the time available to and the level and individual Directors during the next financial year via of commitment which will be required of the potential director.
the process of a detailed questionnaire as well as self and peer assessment.
The process will be led by the Chairman, The Committee is aware of the new requirements introduced assisted by the Company Secretary with the exception by the Code regarding the benefits of diversity, including of his own performance as Chairman, which will be led by gender.
To ensure that the Board continues to have the the SID.
It is further expected that an externally facilitated right balance of skills, diversity in all forms and experience, evaluation of the Board will be performed in line with the when changes to the Board are next contemplated, requirements of the Code within the next three years.
the Committee will consider all aspects of diversity as part of the appointment procedure.
To assist personal development each Director on a biannual basis will undergo a personal development review The Committee evaluates the balance of skill, knowledge to set their goals and assess their progress during the year.
and experience required for the position and prepares Ongoing training and proactive coaching will be provided a detailed description of the role and capabilities required.
by the Company to develop, support and update the To ensure that the best candidate is found, the Company knowledge and skills of its Board, including days out in trade, uses an external search consultancy firm to aid its search regular meetings with the executive management team, and supplements this with several interviews to guarantee internal and external courses and continual dialogue with the highest level of calibre and suitability for the role.
Directors are expected to take responsibility for their own individual developmental needs Prior to the demerger from Punch, an external search in conjunction with the Chairman, Company Secretary and consultancy was used to assist with the recruitment of the Director of Human Resources.
Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
On behalf of the Committee Before any appointment is formally made the Committee obtains details of any interests the candidate may have Walker Boyd which conflict or may conflict with the interests of the Nomination & Governance Committee Chairman 31 October 2011 36 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
