overview business review governance financial statements Long term share incentive awards Performance shares Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Companys 2005 The performance conditions for Performance shares are calculated Employee Incentive Plan EIP, which is a discretionary share plan.
over a three year performance period as set out in the following table: 50% of award: Under the EIP, the Company is able to award Performance shares, Growth in EPS over the performance period Proportion of Performance shares vesting share options and share-settled stock appreciation rights SARs.
% % Any awards made to executive directors are subject to prior Below 15 0 satisfactory performance of the individual and award levels vary 15 30 in accordance with the individuals potential to add value to the Above 15 and below 25 On a straight line basis between business over the medium to long term.
30 and 100 25 or above 100 In normal circumstances, the maximum value of an award of Performance shares under the EIP is limited to 125 per cent of base salary with awards of options or SARs limited to a maximum value 50% of award: TSR Ranking Proportion of Performance shares vesting of 250 per cent of base salary.
For combined awards, the maximum % value is limited to 250 per cent of base salary with one Performance Below median 0 share being equivalent to two options or SARs.
Awards are valued at the closing price for a Spirent Ordinary Share on the business day Between median and upper On a straight line basis between quartile 30 and 100 immediately preceding the date of award.
At or above upper quartile 100 On 23 March 2011, the Committee approved awards of 255,859 Performance shares to Bill Burns and 109,366 Performance shares Options and SARs to Eric Hutchinson.
The performance condition for SARs and options is based on the rate of growth in the Companys EPS over a three year performance period.
Vesting In November 2010, the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of Growth in EPS over the performance period Proportion of SARs options vesting the historical performance conditions for awards under the EIP in the % % light of the Companys current and expected performance, together Below 15 0 with current market practice for performance conditions and consulted 15 30 with major shareholders on the proposed changes.
The Committee Above 15 and below 25 On a straight line basis between considered that for future awards under the EIP it was appropriate to 30 and 100 have more than one performance condition for awards of Performance 25 or above 100 shares with vesting for 50 per cent of the award being based on the Companys relative Total Shareholder Return TSR rating against a All awards are tested once on the third anniversary of grant.
Any part comparator group of companies and vesting for the remaining 50 per of an award which does not vest will lapse and there is no retesting.
cent of the award being based on the rate of growth in the Companys EPS.
In addition, the Committee determined that it would set performance parameters that are relevant and appropriate for each grant.
For the award in March 2011 the Committee determined that the following parameters were apposite: 49
