overview business review governance financial statements the year, 4.4 million Ordinary Shares were purchased by the ESOT External appointments The Company recognises that its executive directors may be invited reducing the impact of dilution.
At the date of this Report, the ESOT holds 7.7 million Ordinary Shares to satisfy the exercises of current to become non-executive directors of other companies and that such appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience, to the and future awards by employees and former employees of the Group.
No material changes to the EIP are proposed and therefore no specific benefit of the Company.
At the date of this Report, neither Bill Burns nor Eric Hutchinson hold any such external positions.
shareholder approval is required at the 2012 AGM to continue to operate this plan.
Non-executive directors fees and letters of appointment Service contracts The Companys remuneration policy with regard to non-executive directors is to pay fees which are in line with market practice.
Fees are It is the Companys policy that service contracts for the executive directors have no fixed term and are capable of termination on no normally reviewed once every three years and were last reviewed on 1 January 2012, having been frozen since 1 January 2008, when it more than 12 months notice from either the Company or the executive director.
was determined that the basic annual fee for non-executive directors would be increased to 40,000 per annum for 2012 to 2014.
Fees for The contract dates and notice periods for each executive director are the Chairman will be increased to 160,000 per annum for 2012 to 2014, having been frozen since 1 January 2009.
Fees will next be as follows: reviewed on 1 January 2015.
The Chairmen of the Audit and Notice period Notice period Remuneration Committees each receive additional fees of 11,000 by company by director and 9,000 respectively.
It is considered that non-executive director Date of contract month s month s fees are at the median level for comparable companies.
Bill Burns 6 November 2008 1 1 Eric Hutchinson 13 December 1999 12 12 All non-executive directors have a letter of appointment with the Company for a period of not more than three years, subject to the Companys Articles of Association.
However, in accordance with the Both contracts contain provisions for the employer to make payment in lieu of notice and for removal of the director for poor performance Code, and as in 2011, all directors will stand for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
or material misconduct without compensation.
In the case of Eric Hutchinson, the Company would seek to apply practical mitigation Details of individual appointments are as follows: measures to any payment of compensation on termination, taking into account all relevant circumstances.
Current appointment Director First appointed a director due to expire In the case of Bill Burns, mitigation provisions are contained in his Ian Brindle 22 December 2006 2012 AGM service contract.
As noted above, Mr Burns service contract is with Duncan Lewis 1 July 2007 2014 AGM SCI and governed by the laws of the State of California, its termination Tom Maxwell 1 October 2007 2014 AGM provisions therefore reflect US practice.
Either the employer or Mr Burns Sue Swenson 1 February 2012 2012 AGM may terminate employment upon 30 days notice and, in addition to Alex Walker 22 December 2006 2012 AGM one months base salary or payment in lieu he would be entitled to accrued base salary, cash incentives, and vacation pay.
Mr Burns would also be entitled to 11 months base salary subject to a set-off for The letters of appointment are available for inspection on request and any base salary earned from alternative employment during the 12 will be available for inspection before and during the 2012 AGM.
An month period following termination severance period and monthly example of a letter of appointment for a non-executive director is COBRA premium payments for the duration of the severance period available on the Companys website at www.
subject to a set-off for health insurance provided by an alternative employer during the severance period.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in cash incentive or share incentive arrangements and their service does not Both service contracts contain appropriate provisions to protect the qualify for a pension or other benefits.
No element of their fee is legitimate interests of the Company with respect to preventing any performance related.
terminated director from working in a business which competes against the Company.
Service contracts do not contain any compensation rights which could be increased on a change of control in the Company.
