Governance Directors report The Directors present their report to shareholders on the Results and dividends affairs of the Company from incorporation on 8 June 2011 The results of the Group for the period are set out in the through to 20 August 2011 together with the audited Consolidated income statement on page 48.
As announced financial statements for the Group covering the 52 weeks on 20 October 2011 the Directors will not be proposing the from 22 August 2010 to 20 August 2011. payment of a final dividend.
Principal activity Demerger The Groups main trading activities are divided into At a general meeting of Punch Taverns plc on 26 July 2011, two divisions: a Managed pub business and a Leased shareholders approved the demerger of the Spirit business pub business.
and on 1 August 2011 the Company was admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the The Managed division consists of pubs that are directly London Stock Exchange.
During the period, substantial progress has been made in repositioning the business Directors through the improvement of operating disciplines, the At 20 August 2011, the Board comprised seven members, upgrading of talent, the revitalisation and development consisting of the Chairman, three Executive Directors and of brands and investment in the estate.
three Non-executive Directors, all three of whom were independent.
The Leased division is operated separately and involves the granting of leases to tenants who run the pub as their own During the period, the following Board changes took place: business, paying rent to the Group, purchasing beer and Ian Dyson and Mike Tye were appointed Directors of the other drinks from the Group and entering into profit sharing Company on incorporation on 8 June 2011: arrangements for income from leisure machines.
Walker Boyd, Russell Margerrison, Tony Rice and Mark Pain were appointed Directors of the Company Business review on 4 July 2011 when the Group became operationally A full review of the periods activities and future developments independent from Punch: and and information on the risks and uncertainties faced by the Christopher Bell was appointed Director of the Company Group, are included in the Business review.
The management on 1 August 2011 upon demerger.
of business risk is set out in the Audit & Risk Committee report and Our risks and uncertainties on pages 24 to 27 Since the year end, the following announcements have been of this report and key performance indicators KPIs are made with regard to the composition of the Companys shown on page 1.
Board: on 12 September 2011 it was announced that Paddy Certain information required for disclosure in this report Gallagher will join the Company as Finance Director is provided in other appropriate sections of the full Annual on 7 November 2011 when Russell Margerrison will Report and Financial Statements 2011.
These include the step down from the role of Interim Finance Director: and Business review, the Corporate governance statement, on 20 October 2011 it was announced that Ian Dyson the Audit & Risk Committee report, the Nomination & would step down as Chief Executive Officer on Governance Committee report, Report on Directors 16 December 2011 and will be replaced by Mike Tye.
remuneration and the Group financial statements and these are accordingly incorporated into this Directors At the Companys first AGM all Directors, with the exception report by reference.
of Ian Dyson and Russell Margerrison, will offer themselves for election, this being the first opportunity for shareholders The Business review has been prepared solely to assist the to approve their appointment since the demerger.
The shareholders in assessing the Groups strategies and the biographical details of each Director can be found on potential of those strategies.
It should not be relied upon page 29 of this report.
by any other party for any other purpose.
Forward looking statements have been made by the Directors in good faith The procedure for the appointment, replacement and using information available up to the date of this report and re-election of Directors and the role of the Nomination & such statements should be regarded with caution because Governance Committee is disclosed in the report on of the inherent uncertainties in economic trends and page 36. business risks.
There are no special provisions contained in any of the Directors contracts for loss of office beyond normal contractual obligations: further details of Directors contracts are contained within the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 39 to 45.
30 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
