spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 2006 and, for the Group, Article 4 of the International Accounting consolidated financial statements of the Group and financial Standards Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such statements of the parent Company.
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also consolidated financial statements of the Group in accordance with responsible for preparing a directors report, a directors International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by remuneration report and a statement on corporate governance that the European Union EU and have elected to prepare the parent comply with the law and those regulations.
They are also responsible Company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial Accepted Accounting Principles and applicable law.
information included on the Companys website.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are required by Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of law and IFRSs to present fairly for each financial period the financial financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in This Annual Report complies with the Disclosure and Transparency the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and Rules DTR of the Financial Services Authority in respect of the fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
requirement to produce an annual financial report.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements are the a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company.
responsibility of, and have been approved by, the directors.
In preparing each of the consolidated financial statements of the Each of the directors confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: the consolidated financial statements of the Group and parent Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of consistently: the assets, liabilities, financial position and the profit or loss of make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation state for the audited consolidated financial statements of the taken as a whole: and Group whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and as adopted by the EU: performance of the business and the position of the Company and state for the parent Company financial statements whether the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent that they face.
Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless By Order of the Board it is inappropriate to presume the Group and the parent Company will continue in operational business for the foreseeable future.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Eric Hutchinson Chief Financial Officer The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 1 March 2012 that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 42
