spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Financial instruments and financial risk management continued The Group has entered into forward foreign currency exchange contracts all of which mature within three months.
The gross settlement amounts of these contracts are as follows: 2011 2010 $ million $ million Sale of US dollars against sterling 8.8 14.8 Purchase of euro against sterling 0.9 Gross settlement amounts 8.8 15.7 The Group is debt free and does not have loans payable.
Financial liabilities, other than derivative financial liabilities, are trade and other payables, the majority of which are all due to be settled within one year, and provisions note 23.
The Group does not have any other material financial contractual commitments.
d Fair value of financial instruments The carrying value of all financial assets and liabilities is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of currency derivatives is determined by reference to forward foreign currency exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles, and is therefore determined to be a level 2 financial instrument as its value is based on observable market inputs.
e Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Groups capital is its total shareholders funds.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions.
During 2011 and 2010 the Company has been operating an on market share repurchase programme.
In 2011 the Company repurchased 17.6 million of its Ordinary Shares at a cost of $34.2 million.
In 2010 the Company repurchased 10.4 million of its Ordinary Shares at a cost of $19.7 million.
The Group intends to continue to repurchase shares to manage the dilution attributable to the Groups share incentive schemes and to repurchase further shares on a one-off basis as it deems appropriate.
Spirents policy on the payment of dividends to shareholders is to maintain a sustainable progressive dividend with high dividend cover.
Operating lease commitments At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2011 2010 $ million $ million Within one year 9.1 11.2 In the second to fifth years 10.0 16.3 Over five years 0.4 19.5 27.5 The Group leases certain land and buildings under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with a variety of terms.
The Group also leases certain plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
Total future sublease payments receivable relating to the 92
