overview business review governance financial statements 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Where an impairment loss has been recognised against an asset, it may be reversed in future periods where there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised, but only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
Such a reversal is recognised in the income statement.
This does not apply for goodwill, for which an impairment loss must not be reversed in any circumstances.
Leases Operating leases are leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset and are not finance leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for obsolescence.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, being the full manufacturing cost on a first-in-first-out basis, including all attributable overheads based on a normal level of activity.
Provisions Provisions are recorded when the Group has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that the Group will be required to settle by an outflow of resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision shall be the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are measured in terms of historical costs using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
The functional currencies of the Groups operations are principally US dollar, sterling or euro.
On consolidation the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated into the Groups presentation currency at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of foreign operations are translated into US dollars using average rates for the period.
The exchange differences arising on retranslation are classified as a separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as part of the profit or loss on disposal should an operation be disposed of.
The Group has elected to apply the exemption in IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards which allows the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be deemed to be zero at the date of transition to IFRSs, being 1 January 2003.
Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at original invoiced amount less an appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Such allowances are based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past experience or known customer exposures.
