overview business review governance financial statements Report on directors remuneration Compliance with best practice and the UK Corporate Advisers to the Committee Governance Code When the Committee considers it appropriate, it takes advice on This Report on directors remuneration has been prepared by the remuneration matters from: Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board for approval by Aon Hewitt Consulting Inc Radford executive remuneration data: shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 May Deloitte LLP executive and non-executive director remuneration 2012 2012 AGM.
The Report has been prepared in accordance data: with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Ernst & Young LLP independent verification of earnings per Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The Report also share EPS to determine the vesting of share incentives they meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial are also the Companys auditor : Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Kepler Associates Limited measurement of total shareholder principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate return TSR to determine the vesting of share incentives: Governance Code the Code relating to directors remuneration.
Linklaters LLP advice on share incentive plans they are also one The Board has complied fully with the provisions of Section D of the of the Companys general legal advisers : and Code in relation to Directors remuneration policy and practice and  LLP advice on share incentive plans, has followed Schedule A to the Code in relation to performance executive remuneration data and policy review.
Part A of the Report, which is not subject to audit, sets out the Companys remuneration policy.
Part B, which During the year the Committee also consulted with the Companys has been audited, provides details of the remuneration, pensions Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice and share incentives of the directors for the period under review.
President, Human Resources and the Company Secretary, but not on matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
Part A Unaudited information Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy for executive directors During 2011, Tom Maxwell Chairman, Ian Brindle, and Duncan Lewis The Committees policy is to set remuneration levels which ensure served on the Remuneration Committee.
Sue Swenson joined the that executive directors are fairly and responsibly rewarded in return Committee on her appointment to the Board on 1 February 2012.
All for high levels of performance.
The remuneration policy set by the members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors Committee aims to encourage a performance based culture which and the Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
reinforces behaviour that will lead to the continued long term successful development of the business, is sufficient to attract, retain The attendance of individual directors at Remuneration Committee and motivate high calibre executive directors and senior managers meetings held during the year was as follows: and aligns their interests with those of shareholders.
The aims of the policy are achieved by ensuring that a significant proportion of total Number of Number of remuneration is linked to the achievement of stretching corporate and meetings meetings individual targets both in the short and long term.
held attended Tom Maxwell Committee Chairman 5 5 As well as providing motivation to perform, remuneration plays an Ian Brindle 5 5 important retention role and needs to be competitive.
The Committee Duncan Lewis 5 5 therefore seeks to position total executive director remuneration around mid-market for on target performance taking into account the The Committee is responsible for determining all elements of the size and complexity of the Group compared to other peer companies.
The Committee takes into account a range of factors including the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, Company Secretary and senior executives of the Group, reviewing remuneration policy and Companys performance, economic conditions, the responsibilities, individual performance and experience of each executive director.
overseeing the operation of the Companys share incentive plans.
The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, can be Consideration is also given to pay and employment conditions of employees within the Group and the Committee particularly takes found on the Companys website at www.
into account pay increases throughout the Group when determining salary increases for executive directors.
