Notes to the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 20 August 2011 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements presented in this document have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
These are the first set of consolidated financial statements of Spirit Pub Company Plc.
The financial statements have been presented as a continuation of the Spirit Pub Company business, which was previously wholly owned by the Punch Taverns group.
The Spirit Pub Company business has not previously prepared consolidated financial statements in accordance with EU IFRS.
As such, these financial statements represent its first EU IFRS financial statements and IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied.
After applying IFRS 1, the assets and liabilities of the Group are not materially different to the assets and liabilities reported in its subsidiaries previously reported financial statements under UK GAAP their previous GAAP.
Business combinations made by the continuing Group since 21 August 2005 have been accounted for under IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations on conversion to IFRS.
As a consequence, goodwill recorded at 22 August 2009, the Groups IFRS transition date, is different to the goodwill previously recorded in the Punch Taverns plc consolidated financial statements at the same date because transaction costs that were included in goodwill calculated using IFRS 3 2004 in the Punch Taverns plc consolidated financial statements have been expensed as incurred under IFRS 3 Revised.
Since no consolidated financial statements were previously prepared for the Spirit Pub Company business, no reconciliation to previous GAAP has been presented.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments to fair value, and in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
New standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC becoming effective during the year have not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and feel it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Further information in relation to the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Operational review on pages 12 to 15 and Our key risks and uncertainties on pages 25 to 27.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowings are described in the Financial review on pages 22 to 23 and in notes 18, 21 and 22, together with information on the Groups strategies surrounding managing interest rate risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and credit risk.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest million, except where indicated.
Group reorganisation and demerger The Spirit Pub Company business was demerged from the Punch Taverns group with effect from 1 August 2011.
As a result of the demerger, the Spirit Pub Company business was transferred to a new ultimate parent company, Spirit Pub Company plc.
Punch shareholders received one share in Spirit for each ordinary share in Punch that they held at the demerger record date.
Punch shareholders continue to own their existing Punch shares.
The Spirit Pub Company business comprises a number of companies which were subsidiaries of Punch Taverns plc prior to the demerger, including the pub operating companies Spirit Pub Company Managed Limited, Spirit Pub Company Leased Limited and Spirit Pub Company Trent Limited.
A new company, Spirit Pub Company plc, was formed to become the parent company of the group to be demerged.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 55 Financial statements
