spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
Pensions The Company operates two funded defined benefit pension plans.
All other plans are defined contribution in nature where the amount charged to the profit and loss account is the contributions paid or payable during the year.
For defined benefit pension plans full actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method, and updates are performed at each balance sheet date.
The cost of providing benefits under these plans is determined separately for each plan, and attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost, and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligations.
Past services are recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis or immediately if the benefits have vested.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued, or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the plan membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the profit and loss account during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest element of the defined benefit pension plan cost represents the change in present value of plan obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on plan assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received, and benefits paid during the year.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the profit and loss account as finance costs or finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between actual and expected returns on plan assets, experience adjustments on liabilities and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The defined benefit pension plan asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds denominated in the same currency and whose term is consistent with the estimated term of the obligation.
Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the Company expects to recover, by way of reductions in the future contributions or refunds from the plan that have been agreed by the trustees.
Treasury shares Spirent Communications plc Ordinary Shares held by the Company are classified in shareholders equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost and shown as a deduction from retained earnings.
Consideration received for the sale of such Ordinary Shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to retained earnings.
Employee benefits When an employee has rendered service to the Company during an accounting period, short term benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service are recognised in the same accounting period.
