Impairment losses Property, plant and equipment and operating leases When any indicators of impairment are identified, property, plant and equipment and operating leases are reviewed for impairment based on each cash generating unit CGU.
The cash generating units are individual pubs.
The carrying value of these individual pubs is compared to the recoverable amount of the CGUs, which was based predominantly on value in use.
Where it is considered more likely than not that a pub will be disposed of in the near term rather than continue to be held and traded by the Group, the carrying value of these individual pubs is written down to the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and their value in use.
The fair value less costs to sell is calculated using managements best estimate of market value following consideration of past experience and the current market environment.
At the Punch Taverns plc interim reporting date of 5 March 2011, an impairment review was performed, triggered by a strategic review of the business, which resulted in a number of Leased pubs being identified as non-core to the Punch group and their carrying value being written down to the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and their value in use.
In addition, an impairment charge was made against the Spirit Managed estate, representing the write-down in asset values on pubs included in the onerous lease provision.
This resulted in a total impairment charge of 65m being recognised at 5 March 2011.
Cash flows used in the value in use calculation of the Leased non-core pubs were based on earnings before interest and taxation.
Since these non-core pubs had been identified as not having a viable future to the Punch group as a pub, their value-in-use was calculated by extrapolating the earnings of these pubs for a period of three years, and then using the fair value less costs to sell at that time as the terminal value at the end of year three.
The cash flow forecasts used assumed an ongoing trading decline for these pubs.
The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 8.0%.
In practice, due to the projected decline in profits in the non-core estate, the majority of pubs were written down to their fair value less costs to sell as their value in use was below this level.
Estimates of fair value less costs to sell were based on valuations undertaken by Punch groups in-house property valuation experts.
The total impairment charge recognised in the year is as follows: 52 weeks to 20 August 2011 52 weeks to 21 August 2010 Managed Leased Total Managed Leased Total m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 4.3 55.9 60.2 8.5 14.7 23.2 Operating leases 10.9 4.3 15.2 15.2 60.2 75.4 8.5 14.7 23.2 At 20 August 2011, and after the demerger from the Punch Taverns group, the Spirit group performed a further review of indicators of impairment.
There were no indicators of impairment and therefore no further impairment was identified, with the exception of 10.4m relating to pubs identified for disposal and held as assets held for sale at 20 August 2011.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon judgements used in arriving at projected disposal values, future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
Key drivers to future growth rates are dependant on the Groups ability to maintain drinks, food and gaming machine profit streams whilst effectively managing pub operating costs in the Managed business, whilst in the Leased business, future growth rates are dependent on the ability to maintain drinks, rental and gaming machine profit streams.
The impact on the impairment charge, in the period to 5 March 2011, of applying different assumptions to the disposal values, growth rates used in the five year financial forecasts and in the pre-tax discount rates was as follows: Impairment charge credit and reduction increase in net assets m Impact if disposal value was: increased by 10% 5.4 decreased by 10% 5.4 Impact if discount rate was: increased by 1% 0.6 decreased by 1% 0.6 Impact if business plan growth rates were: increased by 2% in each year 0.2 decreased by 2% in each year 0.2 Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 71 Financial statements
