Accounting policies continued Impairment Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
A review for indicators of impairment is performed annually.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs.
When an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic resources as a result of past events.
Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money is material.
The discount rate used to determine the present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated taking account of any issue costs, and any discounts or premiums on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds, net of direct issue costs.
Taxation Income tax expense comprises both the income tax payable, based on taxable profits for the year, and deferred tax.
Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or where the deferred tax asset or liability arises on an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Movements in deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement, except where they relate to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
For properties acquired as part of a business combination, movements in the deferred tax liability resulting from indexation allowance are taken to the income statement until the tax base cost plus indexation allowance reaches the fair value on acquisition, and directly to equity thereafter for historic revaluation surpluses.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 59 Financial statements
