spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Share-based payment The Group operates various equity-settled share-based compensation plans and accounts for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions available on first-time adoption of IFRSs, the Standard has been applied to awards granted after 7 November 2002 which were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The fair value of these awards is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period together with a corresponding change in equity.
The fair value is measured using a binomial model by reference to the share price, and taking into account the terms and conditions of the award, excluding non-market vesting conditions, at the date the awards were granted.
The charge is reassessed at each balance sheet date to reflect the expected and actual levels of vesting, due to achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions.
Awards where vesting is conditional upon satisfying a market condition or non-vesting condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting condition has been satisified.
The Group has an employee share trust for the granting of certain share incentives to employees.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
Tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable for previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions: Where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Dividends paid The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period in which it is paid, and the final dividend in the period it is approved by the shareholders at an annual general meeting.
