spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit, an operation within a cash-generating unit or an associate or jointly controlled entity is included in the profit or loss on its disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Separately identifiable intangible assets such as patent fees, licence fees, trademarks and customer lists and relationships are capitalised on the balance sheet only when the value can be measured reliably, or the intangible asset is purchased as part of the acquisition of a business.
Such intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line basis.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Product development Research expenditure is recognised in the year in which it is incurred.
Intangible assets arising on the Groups various product development projects are recognised only if the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met.
Product development costs are expensed as incurred until the technological feasibility of the product under development has been established.
Technological feasibility in Spirents circumstances occurs when a working model is completed.
For software development technological feasibility is not established until the process of developing the software is complete.
After technological feasibility is established, additional costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life.
At 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 no amounts have met the recognition criteria.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of all other assets over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis at rates which take into account commercial conditions at their location.
Usual asset lives are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment Building installations 20 years or lease period if less Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years Business systems software 4 years The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment of assets Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment at each reporting date where there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are assessed at least annually.
When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the expected cash flows value in use of the relevant cash-generating unit or asset and the fair value less cost to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
