Pension During the period Ian Dyson, Mike Tye and Russell Margerrison received a Group contribution into their personal pension arrangements representing up to 25% of their pensionable salary.
The payments were made to Ian Dyson and Mike Tye in lieu of a contribution to the Groups Pension Scheme as they have elected not to join the Groups Pension Scheme.
The payment to Russell Margerrison was paid into his personal pension plan.
Directors interests in the Punch Long Term Incentive Plan Punch LTIP At demerger, all outstanding share awards under the Punch LTIP including Ian Dysons recruitment award were adjusted so that every LTIP award became an award over a combined number of Punch and Spirit shares.
At the general meeting of Punch held on 26 July 2011, shareholder approval was obtained to disapply time pro rating of Punch LTIP awards made to employees who transferred to Spirit and to amend the TSR performance targets.
This meant that employees who continued to be employed by Spirit may therefore retain their awards until the normal vesting date instead of having their award time pro rated as a result of leaving Punch.
However, if an employee ceases to be employed by Spirit under good leaver status, before the normal vesting date of the award the number of shares subject to the award will be time pro rated by reference to the date the employee ceases to be employed.
If an employee leaves Spirit before the normal vesting date of the award as a bad leaver, the number of shares subject to the award will be time pro rated by reference to the date of completion of the demerger.
If an Executive Director who transferred to Spirit leaves Spirit prior to the normal vesting date of their awards, other than as a good leaver, their awards will lapse in their entirety.
The following table sets out the awards made under the Punch LTIP.
Awards granted in 2008 were not hedged by Punch and failed to meet their performance targets and did not therefore benefit from the demerger dividend.
All outstanding Punch LTIP awards up to the point of demerger were measured by Punchs TSR against the median level of performance of the comparator groups TSR over the three year holding period from the date of grant.
Since demerger, the awards for Spirit employees track the TSR performance of Spirit.
Awards will vest or become exercisable, in the case of the 2010 LTIP awards three years from the date of grant, subject to continued employment and the extent to which the TSR performance targets have been met over the three year performance period.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board.
It complies with the Companies Act 2006 and related regulations.
This report will be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 45 Governance
