Financial statements Notes to the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 20 August 2011 continued 13.
Impairment losses continued Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash generating units CGUs based on the benefits to the Group that arise from each business combination.
The two groups of CGUs are identified by their pub operating format Managed or Leased and this is the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by the Group.
During the period ended 21 August 2010, and whilst the Group was part of the Punch group, the Leased estate was reorganised from one group of CGUs to separate core and non-core reporting structures.
The allocation of Leased goodwill between core and non-core indicated that no goodwill should be allocated to the non-core estate given the low value of the properties in the estate and the low level of synergistic benefits.
During the year to 20 August 2011, and prior to the demerger from Punch, a further 98 pubs were transferred in to non-core and at that stage goodwill of 10.1m was reallocated to the non-core estate.
The intention to dispose of these properties in the medium term triggered an impairment review and an impairment charge of 10.1m was taken against this goodwill.
No further impairment was identified at 20 August 2011.
The goodwill impairment reviews were performed by means of comparing the recoverable amount of the CGUs to the carrying value of the unit including goodwill.
The recoverable amount of the CGUs was determined based on value in use calculations.
These value in use calculations are based on earnings before interest and tax and extrapolated for a period of 50 years using a multiple of ten as the terminal value.
The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 9.0%.
The growth rate applied to cash flows over the 50 year period is 2.25%.
Based on this review no impairment of goodwill has been identified.
Neither a reduction in the growth rate to 0.25% in each of the next five years nor an increase in the discount rate to 10.0% would have led to an impairment of goodwill.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures Total Company m At incorporation Additions 336.4 At 20 August 2011 336.4 Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures as at 20 August 2011 are as follows: Name of company Nature of business Investments Spirit Pub Company Managed Limited Pub operating company Spirit Pub Company Leased Limited Pub operating company Spirit Pub Company Trent Limited Pub operating company Spirit Pub Company Holdco Limited Holding company Spirit Pub Company SGE Limited Intermediate holding company Spirit Group Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company Spirit Pub Company Supply Limited Intermediate supply company Spirit Pub Company Services Limited Management and administration company Spirit Pub Company Investments Limited Financing company Joint Ventures Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited Property company 72 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
