overview business review governance financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Dividends paid The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period in which it is paid, and the final dividend in the period it is approved by the shareholders at an annual general meeting.
Share-based payment The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined using a binomial model.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised as a cost to the Company or as an addition to the cost of investment in the subsidiary in which the relevant employees work, over the vesting period of the equity-settled transactions with a corresponding adjustment to reserves.
Any payments received from the Companys subsidiaries in respect of these share-based payments result in a reduction in the cost of investment.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The Company has an employee share trust for the granting of certain share incentives to employees.
Shares are held by the employee share trust, treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable represents the amount expected to be paid or recovered in respect of taxable profit for the year and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on an undiscounted basis on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date except as referred to below.
Amounts provided are calculated with reference to tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not provided on gains on the disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, unless there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
Provision will not be made where it is considered more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only when the replacement assets are sold.
