spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Directors statement on corporate governance continued As all of the Committee members are independent non-executive is no need for a dedicated internal control department.
Responsibility directors, the composition of the Committee is compliant with the for internal control rests with the Group Vice President Finance and terms of the Code.
the North America Vice President Finance.
Both of these senior finance managers are independent of any business unit and play a Relations with shareholders key role in providing an objective view and continuing assessment The Board supports the use of the Annual General Meeting as a of the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout the means of communicating with both private and institutional investors Group.
The Group consists of a limited number of entities which can and encourages their participation.
The Company is ready, where comfortably be covered by the two senior finance managers.
As practicable, to enter into a dialogue with shareholders through analyst stated above, the Group Vice President Finance attends all Audit briefings and investor presentations, all of which are made available Committee meetings to give an update on any internal control issues on the Companys website at www.
Senior executives arising and any outstanding remedial actions.
meet regularly with institutional and major shareholders to facilitate stakeholders understanding of the Company and its objectives and to The Groups system of risk management comprises an integrated receive feedback which is then reported to the Board.
All directors are risk management strategy of regular self-assessment of all business offered the opportunity to meet with shareholders at scheduled units.
Significant risks are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee meetings and are available for shareholders to meet if required.
All of the Companys communications with shareholders are Management and specialists within the finance department are conducted in line with our environmental approach.
We hold the responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial majority of our events via webcast and conference calls and we records and processes that ensure all financial information is encourage all of our investors to receive communications relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and electronically where possible.
regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is Pensions governance completed by management to ensure that the financial position The Groups principal pension and retirement schemes are in the and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial UK and the US.
Scheme funds are held separately from those of the information published by the Group is subject to the approval of the Group and are administered by trustees which include employees Audit Committee.
The schemes do not lend money or lease any assets to the Group.
In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to the overall internal control environment: Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, control.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed defined lines of responsibility and delegated levels of authority: the effectiveness of this system and this review did not reveal any an ethics policy which has been approved by the Board, which significant issues or weaknesses.
The Board confirms that this sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees process was in place throughout the year under review and up to the and operations.
The Ethics Policy also includes whistleblowing date of approval of these financial statements.
The primary aim is to procedures whereby employees may report, in confidence, operate a system which is appropriate to the business and which can, suspected wrongdoings: over time, increase shareholder value whilst safeguarding the Groups a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and assets.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the budgeting system which is properly documented and regularly risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reviewed: and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process misstatement or loss.
and post acquisition integration programme.
Process Day-to-day responsibility for effective internal control and risk monitoring rests with senior management at business unit level.
The Board and the Audit Committee continue to agree that currently there 46
