Financial instruments continued Cash flows associated with cash deposits, debt and interest rate swaps and the fair value of these instruments fluctuate with changes in interest rates.
If the interest rates had been 1% higher or lower during the period, the effect on the income statement would be as follows: Movement in fair value Interest Interest of interest receivable payable rate swaps m m m Period ended 20 August 2011 Impact on income statement if interest rates increased by 1%: gain 2.0 57.4 Impact on income statement if interest rates decreased by 1%: loss 2.0 57.4 Period ended 21 August 2010 Impact on income statement if interest rates increased by 1%: gain 2.5 56.5 Impact on income statement if interest rates decreased by 1%: loss 2.5 56.5 Period ended 21 August 2009 Impact on income statement if interest rates increased by 1%: gain 1.3 54.9 Impact on income statement if interest rates decreased by 1%: loss 1.3 54.9 Whilst cash flow interest rate risk is largely eliminated, the use of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments exposes the Group to fair value interest rate risk such that the Group would not benefit from falls in interest rates and would be exposed to unplanned costs, such as breakage costs, should debt or derivative financial instruments be restructured or repaid early.
Liquidity risk The Groups funding strategy is to ensure a mix of financing methods offering flexibility and cost effectiveness to match the requirements of the Group.
The Group is primarily financed by secured loan notes, with approximately 90% August 2010: 93%, August 2009: 98% of the capital balance on these loan notes being repayable after more than five years from the balance sheet date, subject to relevant covenants being met.
These covenants are formally reported on after each quarter end, but are monitored internally on a periodic basis.
The Board continues to review alternative sources of finance.
The Groups objective is to smooth the debt maturity profile and to arrange funding ahead of requirements where required so maturing short term debt may be refinanced or paid as it falls due.
Cash flow forecasts are frequently produced to assist management in identifying liquidity requirements and are stress tested for possible scenarios.
This includes assessment of the ability to meet the restricted payment condition in the securitisation structure in order that cash can be released to the top company level.
Should the securitisation not meet the restricted payment condition, then cash generated may, under certain circumstances, become trapped within the securitisation not made available to the wider Group to naturally fide-lever that securitisation.
Cash balances are invested in short term deposits such that they are readily available to settle short term liabilities or to fund capital additions.
Capital risk The Groups capital structure is made up of net debt, balances with related parties, issued share capital and reserves.
These are managed effectively to minimise the Groups cost of capital, to add value to shareholders and to service debt obligations, ultimately ensuring that the Group continues as a going concern.
The Groups principal external debt is held within one securitisation.
The securitised debt is monitored by a variety of measures, which are reported to the debt providers on a quarterly basis.
The primary measure is a debt service cover ratio DSCR.
The Group assesses the performance of the business, the level of available funds and the short to medium strategic plans concerning capital spend, as well as the need to meet financial covenants, and such assessment influences the level of dividends payable as well as decisions as to whether to buy back debt.
In the current financial period, the Group has reduced the nominal value of its outstanding securitised debt from 866.5m to 845.5m August 2010: reduced from 996.2m to 866.5m, August 2009: reduced from 1,250.0m to 966.2m.
The period end DSCR default financial covenant at 20 August 2011 was 2.01 times EBITDA August 2010: 1.92 times, August 2009: 1.92 times compared to a financial covenant of 1.30 times.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 81 Financial statements
