overview business review governance financial statements Directors statement on corporate governance Compliance The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director has an interest governance and fully supports the principles laid down in the UK that conflicts, or may potentially conflict, with the interests of the Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in Council in June 2010 the Code.
The Board is accountable to the place for directors to declare Situational Conflicts and for these to be Companys shareholders for good governance and this statement, considered for authorisation by those directors who have no together with the Chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7 and the connection with the matter being considered.
In deciding whether Report on directors remuneration on pages 47 to 54, describes how to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors are the principles of the Code were applied during the year under review required to act in the way they consider most likely to promote the and reports on the Companys compliance with its provisions.
success of the Company and they may impose limits or conditions Disclosures relating to significant shareholdings, voting rights, when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is election and re-election of directors, powers of amendment of the appropriate.
The Board considers the procedure to have continued Companys Articles of Association and the directors power to issue or to operate effectively during the year.
buy back shares are included in the Report of the directors on pages 38 to 41.
It is the Boards view that the Company was fully compliant Details of other professional commitments of the Chairman and with the provisions of the Code throughout the period under review.
non-executive directors are provided in their biographies on pages 36 and 37.
The Board At the date of this Report, the Board comprises a chairman, four Ian Brindle served as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
during the period under review.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive The Board operates within a framework of controls including a formal Director acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary schedule of matters specifically reserved to it which includes such for the non-executive directors, if needed.
Mr Brindle is available to matters as the acquisition and divestment of businesses, the issue meet shareholders upon request if they have concerns which contact of shares, significant contractual commitments, review and through the normal channels of the Chairman or an executive director effectiveness of risk management processes and major capital has failed to resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company: the Chairman Alex Walker being responsible for During 2011, six Board meetings were held.
The agenda is set running the Board and the Chief Executive Officer Bill Burns being by the Chairman and papers are circulated to Board members in responsible for implementing strategy.
Minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members and, subject to their agreement, approved at the The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute external following Board meeting.
expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Company such as strategic investments, corporate finance, general finance and The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings held during the corporate governance.
They also contribute independent challenge and year was as follows: rigour to the Boards deliberations, and assist in the development of Number of Number the Companys strategy, scrutiny of the performance of management in meetings meetings of meeting agreed goals and targets and satisfying themselves of the held attended integrity of the Companys internal controls and risk management Alex Walker Chairman 6 6 systems.
The Board believes that all of the directors devote sufficient Bill Burns 6 6 time and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
Eric Hutchinson 6 6 Ian Brindle 6 6 The independence of each director is reviewed on appointment and Duncan Lewis 6 6 at least annually.
The Board determined that the non-executive Tom Maxwell 6 6 directors are each independent in character and judgement and within the definition of the Code.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making and the requirement of the Code that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise independent non-executive directors is satisfied.
