overview business review governance financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Corporate information The Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 1 March 2012.
Spirent Communications plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As required by the European Unions EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006, the Group has prepared its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Company has elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
These are presented on pages 103 to 122 and the accounting policies in respect of the Company are set out on pages 104 to 107.
Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise indicated.
The Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRSs.
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below and the accounting policies adopted are consistent with those applied in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
New accounting standards The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time in the current period and have been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues IFRIC 14 Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
All intra Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries, representing the excess of cost over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is subject to an annual review for impairment.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cashgenerating units monitored by management.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
