The Groups policy is to provide Executive Directors with Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 LTIP a market competitive level of benefits, including company car Long term incentive awards will be granted under the or car allowance, pension, private medical insurance, lump Companys Long Term Incentive Plan which effectively sum life insurance for death in service and income protection replicates the arrangement operated by Punch.
The initial insurance for long term disability.
awards are expected to be granted in November 2011, and annually thereafter, and the key terms of the arrangement are as follows: Pension it is intended that awards granted to the Executive Consistent with pre-existing arrangements prior to demerger, Directors will be made over shares worth a maximum Executive Directors are entitled to receive a defined of 150% of base salary: contribution to pension from the Group of 25% of base in exceptional circumstances, the maximum award which salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 20% for the other may be granted to an individual in any financial year is Executive Directors.
As they elected not to join the Groups 200% of base salary as operated by Punch prior to the Pension Scheme, the Company makes this payment to demerger : Ian Dyson and Mike Tye in lieu of a contribution to the Groups an award will be subject to a range of earnings per share Pension Scheme.
The payment to Russell Margerrison growth targets and a total shareholder return TSR however is paid directly by the Company into his personal condition, each applying to a separate 50% of an award pension plan.
and measured over a period of three years: for the EPS part of the award, 25% will vest for EPS growth Annual bonus of 7% p. a. compound increasing to 50% vesting for EPS For 2010 11 Executive Directors participated in the annual growth of 10% p. a. increasing to 100% vesting for EPS bonus arrangements which had previously been established growth of 15% p. a: and by Punch and had subsequently been adopted by the for the TSR part of the award, the condition will be Committee.
These arrangements were structured as follows: based on the Companys performance against FTSE 250 Key performance area Weighting companies excluding financial service sector companies Group financial performance 75% and investment trusts as at the date of grant.
25% of this part of an award will vest if Spirits TSR is equal to the Performance of individuals own business area median TSR of the group of companies, with full vesting or function for the Chief Executive Officer this is for upper quartile TSR performance.
A sliding scale will the Group as a whole : and their overall personal operate between these points.
contribution to the business 25% One third of the total gross bonus awarded will be deferred The Committee believes that the blend of EPS and into Company shares for a two year period and a clawback TSR targets provides an appropriate balance between provision will operate in respect of the deferred portion of incentivising and rewarding good financial performance bonus in the event that results have been shown to be on the one hand whilst, on the other hand, providing a materially inaccurate.
strong and direct alignment with the interests of institutional shareholders by rewarding stock market outperformance.
For 2011 12 the annual bonus arrangement for the Executive Directors will be structured as follows: Punch Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 Punch LTIP At demerger, all outstanding long term incentive awards Key performance area Weighting held by Spirit employees under the Punch LTIP including Group financial performance 75% Ian Dysons recruitment award were adjusted to keep Performance of individuals own business area individuals awards whole and ensure that awards continue or function and their overall personal contribution to vest post demerger as normal.
Consistent with the to the business 25% treatment of shareholders in Punch at demerger, each award over Punch shares became an award over a combined The bonus is structured to pay modest bonus levels for number of Punch and Spirit shares.
TSR targets, which tracked meeting the annual business plans and higher levels of the performance of Punch up to the demerger, will track the bonus are payable for outperformance.
TSR performance of the Spirit share price thereafter.
Further The maximum annual bonus is 150% of base salary details of the outstanding awards granted under the Punch for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% for the LTIP are set out within the audited section of this report.
For any bonus to be payable under the individual targets, Spirit Share Bonus Plan 2011 at least threshold profit performance must have been The Spirit Share Bonus Plan, which was introduced at achieved.
demerger and replicates the Punch Share Bonus Plan, One third of the total gross bonus awarded will be deferred enables the Committee to award part or all of any annual into Company shares for a two year period and a clawback bonus in the form of the Companys shares, which the provision will operate in respect of the deferred portion recipient is not permitted to sell during a restricted period of bonus in the event that results have been shown to be normally two years.
As stated above, the current deferral materially inaccurate.
policy is for one third of any bonus paid to be deferred into Company shares for a two year period.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 41 Governance
