Financial statements Notes to the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 20 August 2011 continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Leasing Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
A corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Payments made on entering into or acquiring operating leases are accounted for as intangible assets and amortised over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Pensions The Group operates two defined benefit schemes which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Groups defined benefit arrangements is the difference between the fair value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities.
Any defined benefit assets are limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The cost of providing benefits under the plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial method.
The current service cost is charged to operating profit.
The interest cost and the expected return on assets are shown as a net amount within finance income or finance expense.
The cumulative net deficits on these defined benefit pension schemes have been recognised in full in equity at the date of transition to IFRS and subsequent actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full as they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group also contributes to money purchase pension plans for employees.
Contributions are charged to the income statement as they become payable.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risk associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially accounted for and subsequently remeasured to fair value.
The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Changes in fair value of any derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and VAT.
All operations take place solely in the United Kingdom.
Drink and food sales Revenue in respect of drink and food sales is recognised at the point at which the goods are provided, net of any discounts or volume rebates allowed.
Rents receivable Rents receivable are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Other income Other income includes the Groups share of net machine income which is recognised in the period to which it relates: revenue in respect of hotel rooms is recognised at the time of the guest visit.
60 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
