Governance Corporate governance statement Compliance statement Appointment and replacement of directors The Board attaches the highest priority to corporate Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary governance, the system by which the Company is directed, resolution, by notice from majority shareholders or by the managed and controlled in the interests of all its stakeholders.
As this years AGM will be the Companys first AGM, all of the Directors will stand for election by the shareholders.
Since acquiring listed status on 1 August 2011, the Company In the future, in accordance with the Code, each Director will has demonstrated its commitment to the UK Corporate stand for annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
1 Governance Code the Code by being fully compliant with all of the provisions set out in the Code and with chapter 7 The Company may, by special resolution, remove any of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTR.
Director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or This report, together with the Directors report which includes offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer: information as required by section 7.2.
6 of the DTR, as ii he becomes physically or mentally incapable of acting permitted by section 7.2.
9 of the DTR, the Nomination & as a director and remains so for more than three months: Governance Committee report, the Audit & Risk Committee iii he is absent without the permission of the Board from report and the Report on Directors remuneration, provide an meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate director overview of how the Group has applied the principles of the appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and Code throughout the period.
It details the work and activities the Board resolves that his office is vacated: iv he becomes undertaken by the Companys relevant committees and sets bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: v he is out the key features of the Companys governance structure.
prohibited by law from being a director: vi he ceases to be a director by virtue of the Companies Act 2006: or vii he is Role of the Board removed from office pursuant to the Companys Articles The work of the Board is structured around scheduled Board of Association.
meetings which are linked to key events in the Companys corporate calendar, with additional meetings and conference Powers of directors calls convened to consider matters which are time critical Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the or which require further discussion.
Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Whilst the Board has delegated the normal operational Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise management of the Company to the Executive Directors and all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the executive management team, it retains a schedule of matters management of the business or not.
In particular, the Board which are specifically reserved for its decision.
These matters may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow include, amongst others: money, to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, strategy and management: property, assets present and future and uncalled capital structure and capital: and to issue debentures and other securities and to give financial reporting and controls: security for any debt, liability or obligation.
internal controls: significant contracts: Meeting attendance communication: Since incorporation, the Board met three times, attendance material acquisitions and disposals: at these meetings and those of its committees was as follows: investments: and capital projects.
Nomination & Audit & Risk Remuneration Governance 1 2 3 4 Board Committee Committee Committee The Company has also established Audit & Risk, Remuneration 5 Walker Boyd 1 out of 1 n a 1 out of 1 1 out of 1 and Nomination & Governance Committees with formally Ian Dyson 3 out of 3 n a n a n a delegated duties and responsibilities and written terms of Mike Tye 3 out of 3 n a n a n a reference which are available on www.
From time to time, separate committees are set up by the Russell 5 Board to consider specific issues when the need arises.
Margerrison 1 out of 1 n a n a n a 5 Tony Rice 1 out of 1 1 out of 1 1 out of 1 1 out of 1 5 Together, however, the Board is collectively responsible to Mark Pain 1 out of 1 1 out of 1 1 out of 1 1 out of 1 6 the Companys shareholders for the Groups performance Christopher Bell None 1 out of 1 1 out of 1 None and sets the strategic aims and objectives of the Group to 1 Board meetings were held on 10 June 2011, 1 July 2011 and 4 July 2011. fulfil this responsibility.
The Board determines the Companys 2 Audit & Risk Committee meeting held on 8 August 2011. key policies, agrees on performance criteria and delegates 3 Remuneration Committee meeting held on 8 August 2011.
4 Nomination & Governance meeting held on 4 July 2011. to the executive management team their planning and 5 Appointed on 4 July 2011. implementation.
Overall, the Board ensures that all necessary 6 Appointed on 1 August 2011. resources are in place in order for the Company to meet its objectives and that all decisions are taken objectively and In addition to their attendance at Board and committee in the interest of the Company and its shareholders.
meetings, the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors also meet without the Executive Directors in accordance 1 A copy of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils with section A.
uk 34 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
