Financial glossary Corporate governance Fair value Corporate governance describes the system by which The amount at which assets can be exchanged, or liabilities an organisation is directed and controlled.
settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Debenture notes A form of bond taken out by a company, which it agrees Finance lease to repay at a specified future date and which bears interest A method of purchasing an asset by making rental payments either fixed or variable until maturity.
throughout the expected lifetime of the asset.
The lessee shows an asset and a corresponding liability in the balance Debt service cover ratio sheet.
Finance lease payments are accounted for as a Debt service cover ratio DSCR is the ratio of EBITDA reduction in the liability.
Goodwill Derivative financial instruments Goodwill is the excess of the amount paid for a company Financial instruments whose value changes in response over the fair value of the net assets acquired at the date to changes in a specified interest rate, financial instrument of acquisition.
price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, or other variable, and are settled at a future date.
IAS International Accounting Standards Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is earnings per share after IASB allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into International Accounting Standards Board ordinary shares of the weighted average number of options IFRS outstanding during the period and shares from the assumed conversion of convertible bonds.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRIC Earnings per share EPS Earnings per share is a performance measure that expresses International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided Interest cover by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue A performance measure that shows the number of times during the period.
EBITDA covers the net finance income and finance cost.
EBITDA Interest rate swap EBITDA represents earnings before finance income, finance A derivative financial instrument used to minimise exposure costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps, UK to changes in interest rates by payment to receive a fixed income tax, depreciation, amortisation and profit on sale interest rate in exchange for a floating rate interest rate, or of non-current assets.
payment to receive a floating rate interest rate in exchange Effective interest rate method for a fixed interest rate.
A method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial LIBOR asset or financial liability and of allocating the interest London Inter Bank Offered Rate.
The interest rate quoted income or expense over the relevant period.
between banks, which is a recognised basis for calculating Experience gains losses a floating interest rate.
Changes in the valuation of a defined benefit pension scheme that arise when events have not coincided with the actuarial assumptions made for the previous valuation.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 97 Financial statements Financial statements Financial glossary continued Net debt Securitisation Loans, convertible bonds, derivative financial instruments The process of raising finance by creating a financial and finance leases net of other interest bearing deposits instrument secured by pooling other financial assets to and cash and cash equivalents.
Nominal value of net debt Segmental reporting The value of a security stated by the issuer: unrelated to Information regarding the financial position and results market value.
For bonds, it is the amount paid to the holder of operations in different business areas.
SOCI Non-underlying items Statement of comprehensive income Items which management consider will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-underlying nature or Total shareholder return TSR The growth in value of a shareholding over a specific period, because of specific accounting treatments.
These are separately identified in order to provide a trend measure of assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares.
Operating lease UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code on corporate A method of renting assets over a period that is less than the expected life of the asset.
The lessee does not show governance sets out standards of good practice in relation to issues such as board composition and development, an asset or liability on their balance sheet and periodic payments are accounted for by the lessee as operating remuneration, accountability and audit, and relations with shareholders.
Operating result UK GAAP Profit after deducting all operating expenses including UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles depreciation and amortisation.
Working capital PBT Short term disposable capital used to finance day-to-day Profit before tax operations.
It is calculated as current assets less current liabilities.
Projected unit credit method The accounting method used to calculate provisions for pensions.
It includes not only the pensions and vested interests accrued at the date of calculation, but also anticipated increases in salaries and pensions.
98 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
