spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Notes to the parent Company financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified for measurement of derivative financial instruments at fair value and in accordance with applicable UK law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
As the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements, made up to 31 December each year, it is not required to present a separate profit and loss account as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Cash flow statement The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements from the requirement to publish its own cash flow statement, as its cash flows are included within the consolidated cash flow statement of the Group.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Purchased goodwill, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of assets acquired, is written off on a straight line basis from the date of acquisition over 20 years, being its anticipated useful life.
Tangible assets Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of all other assets, less residual value, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives at rates which take into account commercial conditions at their location.
Usual asset lives are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment Building installations 20 years or lease period if less Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years Business systems software 4 years The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Investments Fixed asset investments, including investment in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease on a straight line basis.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost includes all costs in bringing each product to its present location and condition, being the full manufacturing cost on a first-in-first-out basis, including all attributable overheads based on a normal level of activity.
Net realisable value represents the selling price less further costs to be incurred to completion and on sale.
