95 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information iii Impairment testing The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that the value of those assets is impaired.
In assessing for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash flows are allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amount of the assets, or the appropriate CGU, is measured as the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use calculations require the estimation of future cash flows to be derived from the respective CGUs and to select and an appropriate discount rate in order to calculate their present value.
The fair value less costs to sell methodology used for the wind farms CGUs also requires the discounting of cash flows from the projects within the respective CGUs.
The estimation of the timing and value of underlying projected cash flows and the selection of appropriate discount rates involves management judgement.
Subsequent changes to these estimates or judgements may impact the carrying value of the assets within the respective CGUs.
Gas production and development assets are assessed under the fair value less costs method for the respective CGUs.
This is deemed more appropriate as it is based on post-tax cash flows arising from each field within the respective CGUs, which is consistent with the approach taken by management in determining the economic value of the underlying assets.
This is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU, net of associated selling costs, and takes into account assumptions market participants would use in estimating fair value.
iv Provisions and contingencies The assessments undertaken in recognising provisions and contingencies have been made in accordance with IAS 37.
The evaluation of the likelihood of the contingent events has required best judgement by management regarding the probability of exposure to potential loss.
Should circumstances change following unforeseeable developments, this likelihood could alter.
v Decommissioning costs The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the useful lives of assets is reviewed periodically.
Decommissioning costs in relation to gas exploration and production assets are based on expected lives of the fields and costs of decommissioning and are currently expected to be incurred predominantly between 2017 and 2030. vi Financial Instruments fair values The valuation of the financial instruments is based upon published price quotations in active markets and valuation techniques where such information is not available.
Energy commodity contracts are classified as either derivative contracts under IAS 39 or as contracts for the Groups own use requirements.
Only IAS 39 derivatives are accounted for on a fair value basis.
More detail on this is included in note 31. vii Gas and liquids reserves The volume of proven and probable gas and liquids reserves is an estimate that affects the unit of production depreciation of producing gas and liquids property, plant and equipment.
This is also a significant input estimate to the associated impairment and decommissioning calculations.
The impact of a change in estimated proven and probable reserves is dealt with prospectively by depreciating the remaining book value of producing assets over the expected future production.
If proven and probable reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate write-down impairment of the assets book value.
viii Exceptionals and remeasurements The criteria for identifying what constitutes an exceptional item are outlined in note 1 Exceptional items and certain remeasurements.
2. rEclassification of comparatiVE amounts The Groups Investments in Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates were previously disclosed including the value of long-term shareholder loans.
While this represents the substance of the Groups net investment in its Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates, such interests are not recorded under the equity method of accounting under IAS 27 and 31 but instead are recorded initially at fair value under IAS 39 and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Consequently, all such long-term shareholder loans will be shown separately as non-current financial assets and not as part of the equity investment in Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates.
In addition to this, the Group holds interest-bearing long-term commercial loans with certain Jointly Controlled Entities Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited and Marchwood Power Limited which were previously recorded as part of current other receivables.
These have been reclassified as non-current financial assets.
Note 14 has been restated to show both the equity and loan investments in the Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates as this is the basis of review used by management.
No further restatement has been considered necessary to aid understanding of the Groups financial position.
The impact of these changes are as follows: i reclassification of long-term shareholder loans Company Consolidated Reported restated Reported restated 31 March 2010 31 march 2010 31 March 2010 31 march 2010 m m m m Investment in Associates and Jointly Controlled Entities 473.9 207.0 1,037.3 635.2 Loans to Associates and Jointly Controlled Entities 266.9 402.1 473.9 473.9 1,037.3 1,037.3
