Scottish and Southern Energy 100 Annual Report 2011 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 4. otHEr opEratinG incomE anD ExpEnsE continued Tax service fees incurred in the year were 0.2m 2010 0.2m.
Other service fees include fees incurred in relation to regulatory accounts and returns required by Ofgem.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 60 and 61 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
Amounts paid to the Companys auditor in respect of services to the Company other than the audit of the Companys financial statements have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
ExcEptional itEms anD cErtain rEmEasurEmEnts i Exceptional items In the year to 31 March 2011 the following exceptional items have been recorded: Impairment of thermal and renewable generation portfolio assets arising from changing market conditions.
Exceptional charges have been recognised in relation to the impairment of goodwill 42.5m, property, plant and equipment 442.7m, development intangible assets 39.7m and financial assets 7.4m.
In addition, related net credits of 10.5m have been recognised, including 8.8m relating to finance costs.
These were recognised as a consequence of changing regulatory and economic conditions, in particular, i the impact of the Industrial Emissions Directive on station running hours and useful economic lives at certain plants including the Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge power stations: ii the consequential impact on the ash remediation plant at Fiddlers Ferry, iii changes in the economic prospects of certain older, less flexible thermal plants, and, iv the decision to concentrate continental Europe wind generation activities on the Sweden and Netherlands markets.
Impairment of Investments in Associates.
Exceptional impairment charges have been recognised in relation to the Groups investments in Barking Power Limited and Derwent Cogeneration Limited following the expiry of long-term power purchase agreements at both stations.
In addition, certain other investments have been impaired.
The combined impairment charges are 76.3m net of deferred tax.
Changes in UK corporation tax rates.
The Emergency Budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 24% over a period of four years from 2011.
The first change from 28% to 27% was substantially enacted in July 2010 and applies from 1 April 2011.
The March 2011 Budget further reduced the tax rate from 1 April 2011 to 26%.
This was substantively enacted on 29 March 2011.
These changes will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
As this rate change has been substantively enacted it has the effect of reducing the Groups net deferred tax liabilities recognised at 31 March 2011 by 49.4m.
It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 3% rate reduction the rate now being reduced to 23% due to legislation not being enacted, although this will further reduce the Companys future current tax charge and reduce the Companys deferred tax liabilities assets accordingly.
In addition, the March 2011 Budget increased the rate of supplementary corporation tax SCT from 20% to 32% and was also substantively enacted on 29 March 2011.
This had the effect of increasing the Groups deferred tax liabilities and assets in relation to the Groups Exploration and Production E&P business to which this supplementary tax applies.
The impact on the Groups net deferred tax liabilities was an increase of 31.7m.
ii certain remeasurements Certain remeasurements arising from IAS 39 are disclosed separately to aid understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
This category includes the movement on derivatives as described in note 31.
