115 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 15. suBsiDiary unDErtaKinGs Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows: 2011 2010 country of incorporation Holding % Holding % principal activity SSE Services plc i England and Wales 100 100 Corporate support services SSE Energy Supply Limited i England and Wales 100 100 Electricity supply SSE Generation Limited i England and Wales 100 100 Electricity generation Medway Power Limited ii England and Wales 100 100 Electricity generation Keadby Generation Limited viii England and Wales 100 100 Electricity generation Southern Electric Gas Limited vi England and Wales 100 100 Gas supply SSE Renewables Holdings Limited i Ireland 100 100 Renewables holding company SSE Renewables Holdings UK Limited x Northern Ireland 100 100 Renewables holding company SSE Renewables Developments UK Limited ix Northern Ireland 100 100 Wind generation development SSE Renewables Ireland Limited iii Ireland 100 100 Wind generation development Airtricity Limited iii Ireland 100 100 Energy supply Airtricity Energy Supply Northern Ireland Limited x Northern Ireland 100 100 Energy supply Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission Limited iv Scotland 100 100 Transmission of electricity Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution plc iv Scotland 100 100 Distribution of electricity Southern Electric Power Distribution plc iv England and Wales 100 100 Distribution of electricity S S Limited iv Scotland 100 100 Electricity connections SSE Metering Limited i Scotland 100 100 Meter reader and operator Southern Electric Contracting Limited v England and Wales 100 100 Electrical contractor SSE Hornsea Limited i England and Wales 100 100 Gas storage SSE E&P UK Limited i Scotland 100 Gas exploration and production SSE Telecommunications Limited i Scotland 100 100 Telecommunication services Neos Networks Limited vii England and Wales 100 100 Telecommunication services The above companies shares consist of Ordinary Shares only.
All principal subsidiaries operate in Great Britain and Ireland.
All companies have accounting periods ending on 31 March.
The Group has other subsidiary undertakings which do not significantly affect the results and position disclosed in these financial statements.
A full list of the subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return.
Shares in the above subsidiaries are held by: i Scottish and Southern Energy plc ii SSE Generation Limited iii SSE Renewables Holdings Limited iv SSE Power Distribution Limited v SSE Contracting Group Limited vi SSE Energy Supply Limited vii SSE Telecommunications Limited viii Keadby Power Limited ix SSE Renewables Holdings UK Limited x SSE Renewables Group UK Limited investment in subsidiaries company Total m At 1 April 2009 2,154.2 Increase in existing investments 17.9 At 31 March 2010 2,172.1 Increase in existing investments i 13.6 Transfers in ii 132.7 at 31 march 2011 2,318.4 i The incr ease in existing investments held by the Company relates to equity shares in the Company awarded to the employees of the subsidiaries of the Group under the Groups share schemes, which are recognised as in increase in the cost of investment in those subsidiaries as directed by IFRS 2.
This also includes an additional 3.8m paid in relation to the acquisition of Airtricity Holdings Limited.
ii S SE Hornsea Limited was transferred from SSE Energy Supply Limited at book value during the year.
Scottish and Southern Energy 116 Annual Report 2011 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 15. suBsiDiary unDErtaKinGs continued service concession arrangements In 50:50 partnership with Royal Bank Leasing Limited, the Group has established three companies to provide street lighting services to councils under the Private Finance Initiative PFI.
These services are thereafter sub-contracted to Southern Electric Contracting Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
The companies established are as follows: company council Tay Valley Lighting Stoke on Trent Limited Stoke-on-Trent Council Tay Valley Lighting Newcastle and North Tyneside Limited Newcastle and North Tyneside Council Tay Valley Lighting Leeds Limited Leeds City Council Under SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, despite being 50% owned, the Tay Valley Lighting companies are categorised as subsidiaries and are accounted for accordingly since the Group bears the majority of the risks and rewards.
The debt associated with these companies is non-recourse to the Group.
The arrangements for all three companies are materially similar.
The Group also owns 100% of the share capital of entities which perform similar services under seven PFI contracts.
The terms of the service concession arrangement are similar to those operated by the companies noted above.
The council and contract holder within the acquired group are as follows: company council Dorset Lighting Limited Dorset County Council Ealing Lighting Limited London Borough of Ealing Islington Lighting Limited London Borough of Islington Tay Valley Lighting Hampshire Limited Hampshire County Council Tay Valley Lighting Southampton Limited Southampton City Council Tay Valley Lighting West Sussex Limited West Sussex County Council Tay Valley Lighting Nottingham Limited Nottingham City Council The service commencement date for Tay Valley Lighting Nottingham Limited was 1 September 2010. characteristics of the arrangements Description The contracts are 25 year arrangements to replace ageing street-lighting stock and to subsequently maintain the new assets throughout each of the Councils areas.
Significant terms The cash flows under the PFI arrangements come from the unitary charge for these services paid by the Councils.
The unitary charge can only be adjusted if performance under the contract falls below the required standards.
Any significant change to the services proposed by either party is subject to a formal change procedure and agreement to such a change is required by the other party.
Nature and extent of rights and obligations The assets are part of the public highway and ownership of the assets remains with the Councils.
The contract holding companies are licensed to replace and maintain the assets for the period of the contract.
This obligation is passed down to Southern Electric Contracting Limited or to other companies within the Seeboard Trading group through the operating sub-contract.
Any failure to provide the services to the required standards will result in financial penalties which are taken from the unitary charge.
The companies have 25 year contracts with no extension options.
Termination during this period can be initiated through a number of routes including service provider default, force majeure or the event of a risk becoming uninsurable, authority default, voluntary authority termination, or termination for a prohibited act or breach of refinancing provisions.
In all cases, a formula exists for calculating compensation payments to the service provider.
Throughout the contract period there are a number of circumstances under which the companies could potentially be required to provide additional services: i Changes in the law If circumstances arise where by a change in legislation would mean a change in the way the services are to be provided the companies would be liable for part of the cost of this change.
ii Final survey The Councils have the ability to deduct a percentage of the unitary charge in the last two years if an independent survey indicates the assets are unlikely to have a 5-year residual life.
