Scottish and Southern Energy 86 Annual Report 2011 Notes on the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 1. siGnificant accountinG policiEs General information Scottish and Southern Energy plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out earlier in this Report at pages 6 to 46.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 19 May 2011.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are provided in note 31 of the Financial Statements on page 140.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, biological assets and the assets of the Group pension scheme which are stated at their fair value, and the liabilities of the Group pension schemes which are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The Directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are presented in pounds sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds sterling are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Groups foreign currencies accounting policy.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher level of judgement or estimation are summarised at pages 94 and 95.
Exceptional items and certain remeasurements As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain remeasurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
Certain remeasurements are remeasurements arising on certain commodity, interest rate and currency contracts which are accounted for as held for trading or as fair value hedges in accordance with the Groups policy for such financial instruments.
This excludes commodity contracts not treated as financial instruments under IAS 39 where held for the Groups own use requirements.
Standards, amendments and interpretations The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted by the Group from 1 April 2010: kk IFRS 3 revised, Business Combinations.
The revised standard applies to business combinations entered into by the Group completing on or after 1 April 2010.
There is no requirement to restate previous business combinations.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some significant changes compared with IFRS 3.
All payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as a liability subsequently remeasured through the income statement.
There is a choice on an acquisition by acquisition basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Pre-existing relationships require to be recognised and all acquisition-related costs are expensed.
kk As the Group has adopted IFRS 3 revised, it is required to adopt IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, at the same time.
IAS 27 revised requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
In the financial statements to 31 March 2011, non-controlling interests of 3.8m were recorded in equity.
kk IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers, is effective for transfer of assets received on or after 1 November 2009.
This interpretation clarifies the requirements for agreements in which an entity receives assets from a customer in return for connection to a network or ongoing access to a supply of goods or services.
The contributed assets will be recognised initially at fair value and related revenue will be recognised immediately, unless there is a future service obligation, in which case revenue is deferred and recognised over the service period.
By adopting this interpretation, the Group recognised 28.5m of revenue in the current financial year which would previously have been deferred.
A compensating depreciation charge has been recognised against the related capital addition.
As a consequence, the adoption of the interpretation did not have a material impact on the Groups reported performance.
The impact of adopting the interpretation on the previous years results is commented upon at note 2.
