Scottish and Southern Energy 94 Annual Report 2011 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1. siGnificant accountinG policiEs continued v Convertible bond The Group issued a convertible bond which had a liability component, which was accounted for as a compound financial instrument, net of transaction costs and an equity component, which was calculated as the discounted excess of the issue proceeds over the present value of the future interest and principal payments.
The bond was fully converted at 24 October 2009. vi Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
vii Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are measured at cost less an appropriate allowance for irrecoverable receivables.
viii Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All such loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value including transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, except where the loan or borrowing is the hedged item in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
ix Share capital Ordinary Shares are accounted for as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds received.
x Hybrid capital The Group issued hybrid capital in the year ended 31 March 2011.
Hybrid capital comprises issued bonds that qualify for recognition as equity.
Accordingly, any coupon payments are accounted for as dividends and are recognised directly in equity at the time the payment obligation arises.
This is because the coupon payments are discretionary and relate to equity.
Coupon payments consequently do not have any impact on the income statement.
Coupon payments are recognised in the cash flow statement in the same way as dividends to ordinary shareholders.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Decommissioning costs The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the useful lives of certain assets is reviewed periodically.
Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the producing lives of fields, and gas storage facilities and power stations at the end of the useful life of the facilities.
The estimates are based on technology and prices at the balance sheet date.
A corresponding decommissioning asset is recognised and is included within property, plant and equipment when the provision gives access to future economic benefits.
Changes in these provisions are recognised prospectively.
For offshore wind assets, power stations and gas storage facilities the unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in finance costs and the depreciation for the asset is straight-line over the expected useful life of the asset.
For gas production facilities the decommissioning asset is amortised using the unit of production method, based on proven and probable reserves.
critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions underlying the estimates could result in a significant impact to the financial statements.
The most critical of these accounting judgement and estimation areas are noted.
i Revenue recognition Revenue on energy sales includes an estimate of the value of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
This will have been estimated by using historical consumption patterns and takes into consideration industry reconciliation processes for total consumption by supplier.
At the balance sheet date, the estimated consumption by customers will either have been billed estimated billed revenue or accrued unbilled revenue.
Management apply judgement to the measurement of the quantum of the estimated consumption and to the valuation of that consumption.
The judgements applied, and the assumptions underpinning these judgements are considered to be appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions would impact upon the amount of revenue recognised.
ii Retirement benefits The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement benefits during the period are set after consultation with qualified actuaries.
While these assumptions are believed to be appropriate, a change in these assumptions would impact the earnings of the Group.
The value of scheme assets is impacted by the asset ceiling test which restricts the surplus that can be recognised to assets that can be recovered fully through refunds or reductions in future contributions.
