87 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The following amendments to existing standards and interpretations were also effective for the current period, but the adoption of these amendments to existing standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group: kk IFRIC 16, Hedges of Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
kk IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. kk Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2009 were issued in April 2009.
The effective dates vary standard by standard but most are effective 1 January 2010. kk IFRS 2 Amendment, Share Based Payment Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions, effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and IFRIC, which have not been adopted in these condensed interim statements, were in issue but not yet effective: kk Revised IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, issued in November 2009. kk Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement issued in November 2009.
The amendment corrects an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14.
Without the amendment, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2011. kk Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2010, issued in May 2010.
IAS 39 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. kk IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010, although this has not been endorsed by the EU.
The above have not been early adopted by the Group and the impact of adopting these standards and amendments to existing standards is currently being assessed.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries including special purpose entities are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting.
The special purpose entities referred to relate to entities in which the Group has a 50% shareholding but whose activities the Group is deemed to control under SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
In the Company, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, namely where the Group has a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
In the consolidated financial statements, investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Jointly controlled operations are businesses which use assets and liabilities that are separable from the rest of the Group.
In these arrangements, the Group accounts for its own share of property, plant and equipment, carries its own inventories, incurs its own expenses and liabilities and raises its own finance.
In the Company, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from Intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
accounting policies Revenue recognition: energy, services and goods relating to the sale of energy Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue comprises sales of energy, use of system income, gas production revenue, gas storage facility revenue, the value of contracted services and facilities provided and goods sold during the year in the normal course of business.
Scottish and Southern Energy 88 Annual Report 2011 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1. siGnificant accountinG policiEs continued Revenue on energy sales comprises sales to retail end-user customers including an estimate of the value of electricity and gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
Revenue on energy sales also includes monies received from the electricity and gas balancing markets in the UK and other wholesale market energy sales.
Unread energy sales are estimated using historical consumption patterns taking account of industry volume reconciliation processes.
Revenue from sales and optimisation trades in physical and financial energy and commodity contracts is recognised gross in the income statement.
Revenue associated with business interruption insurance claims is recognised as revenue in the income statement only when it is virtually certain that the claim will be successful.
Revenue from use of energy systems includes an estimation of the volume of electricity distributed or transmitted by customers based on independently procured electricity settlement systems data.
Annual revenue is dependent on being approved by the industry regulator, Ofgem.
Certain circumstances may result in the regulatory allowed income being overor under-recovered in the financial year.
Any overor underrecovery is included in the calculation of the following years regulatory use of system revenue within agreed parameters.
No adjustment is made for overor under-recoveries in the year that they arise.
Revenue from the production of natural gas, crude oil and condensates is recognised when title passes to the customer.
The Group has an interest with other producers in jointly controlled operations for the production of such products.
Revenue under these arrangements is recognised based on the entitlement method in reference to the Groups interest and the relevant production sharing terms.
Where there are differences between the Groups share of production and the volume sold, an overlift or underlift is recorded see below.
Where the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are recognised as the service is performed and amounts billed in advance are treated as deferred income and excluded from current revenue.
For network connections activity from 1 November 2009, the revenue recognition rules of IFRIC 18 have been applied, whereby income is recognised over the course of completion of the associated capital works unless there is a future service obligation, in which case revenue is recognised over the service period.
Revenue from fixedfee service contracts is recognised over the life of the contract, in relation to the benefit received by the customer.
Gas storage facilities revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst revenues for the injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed, along with the risks and rewards of ownership.
Overlift and underlift It is often not practical for each participant to receive or sell its precise share of the overall production from a jointly controlled operation under the contractual offtake arrangements in any given period.
These short-term imbalances between cumulative production entitlement and cumulative sales are referred to as overlift and underlift.
An overlift payable, or underlift receivable, is recognised at the balance sheet date and measured at market value, with movements in the period recognised within cost of sales.
Exploration, evaluation and production assets The Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation expenditure associated with exploration wells or prospects.
This expenditure will be capitalised initially within intangible assets and will include licence acquisition costs associated with the prospects.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be successful on completion of the evaluation period, the relevant expenditure will be transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated on a unit of production basis.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be unsuccessful on completion of the evaluation period, the intangible asset will be expensed in the period in which that determination is made.
All field development costs, including rights and concessions related to production activities, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Capitalised costs relate to the acquisition and installation of production assets and facilities and includes specialist engineering, drilling and technical services costs.
These property, plant and equipment assets are depreciated from the commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production method, based on the proven and probable reserves of those fields.
Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
The carrying value of exploration prospects is regularly compared on an individual field basis with the expected discounted future net revenues associated with the remaining commercial reserves.
An impairment loss will be recognised where it is considered that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the net present value of future net revenues.
All exploration and production assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
Government grants A government grant is recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that it will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to it.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same years in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to match the depreciation charge.
89 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Leases The determination of whether an arrangement contains a lease is dependent on whether the arrangement relates to use and control of a specific asset.
Leases are classified as finance leases if the arrangement transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are categorised as operating leases.
i Operating lease obligations Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
ii Finance lease obligations Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and held as part of property, plant and equipment.
The accounting policy for such arrangements is described on page 90.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured accordingly.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising on the restatement of such items is taken to the income statement with the exception of exchange gains or losses on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity or exchange gains or losses incurred as part of a qualifying cash flow hedge.
Exchange gains or losses on net investment hedges are taken against the consolidated translation reserve, a separate component of equity, to the extent the hedge is effective.
Non-monetary assets that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the historic rate at the date of transaction.
For the purpose of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated into pounds sterling at the balance sheet closing rate.
The results of these operations are translated at the average rate in the relevant period.
Exchange differences on retranslation of the opening net assets and the results are transferred to the translation reserve and are reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign exchange contracts or foreign currency swaps used as part of a hedge against net investment in a foreign entity are transferred to the translation reserve.
Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested and expected returns on pension scheme assets recognised in the income statement.
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings and finance leases, the release of discounting on provisions, interest on pension scheme liabilities and accretion of the debt component on the convertible loan less capitalised interest.
Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects is capitalised during the years of construction and depreciated as part of the total cost over the useful life of the asset.
Interest income and costs are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, on an effective interest method.
The issue costs and interest payable on bonds and all other interest payable and receivable is reflected in the income statement on the same basis.
Taxation Taxation on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities other than in business combinations that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset within the same tax authority and where the Company intends to either settle them on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised on the date the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Dividend liabilities are recognised on the date the Groups obligation to pay dividends is established.
