91 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Biological assets Biological assets, such as living trees, are measured at their fair value less estimated point of sale costs.
The valuation of forest assets is based on discounted cash flow models whereby the fair value of the biological asset is calculated using cash flows from continuous operations, that is, each forest asset is split into an appropriate grouping based on the maturity and or type of trees.
An expected future volume of Timber that will be produced from each of these groups is then derived.
The expected volume is used to apply a market value to the groups of trees based on the market value of Standing Timber.
These market values are discounted based on the time to full maturity to appropriately value each grouping.
Periodic changes resulting from growth, felling prices, discount rate, costs and other premise changes are included in operating profit on the income statement.
Business Combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for under the purchase method.
The acquired business is measured at the date of acquisition as the aggregate fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as required under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the acquired business is represented as goodwill.
For combinations taking place from 1 April 2010, contingent consideration classified as a liability will be subsequently remeasured through the income statement under the requirements of the revised IFRS 3.
Pre-existing relationships require to be recognised and all acquisition-related costs are expensed.
Intangible assets i Goodwill and impairment testing Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least on an annual basis.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
The cash-generating units used for goodwill impairment testing purposes are the operating units one level below the Groups segmental businesses.
The cash-generating units are therefore representative of how goodwill was recognised but do not represent business segments as reported to management.
If the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment charge will be recognised immediately in the income statement and, in relation to the impairment of goodwill, will not be subsequently reversed.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
The impairment charge will initially be adjusted against the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit.
Thereafter, the remaining assets of the cash-generating unit will be written-down proportionately.
Goodwill may also arise upon investments in jointly-controlled entities and associates.
Such goodwill is recorded within the carrying amount of the Groups investment and any impairment loss is included within the share of result from jointly-controlled entities and associates.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, any attributed goodwill will be included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is capitalised if the product or process is considered to be technically and commercially feasible and the Group intends to complete the intangible asset for use or for sale.
iii Allowances and emissions The European Emissions trading scheme EU ETS has been in operation since 1 January 2005.
The IASB withdrew IFRIC 3 Emission Rights in June 2005 and it has not been replaced with definitive guidance or interpretation for CO carbon emissions trading.
The Group 2 recognises carbon allowances granted in a period at nominal value nil value.
Carbon allowances purchased are recorded at cost within intangible assets.
A liability is recognised when the level of emissions in any compliance period exceeds the level of allowances held and this is recorded as a current liability.
Up to the level of allowances held the liability is measured at the cost of purchased allowances.
When the carbon emission liability exceeds the carbon allowances held, the net liability is measured at the anticipated selling price.
Movements in the market value of the liability are recognised in operating profit.
Forward carbon contracts are measured at fair value with gains or losses arising on remeasurement being recognised in the income statement.
The intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of the economic benefit and is derecognised at its carrying value.
As a result, no amortisation is booked but an impairment charge may be recognised should the carrying value exceed market value.
Where allowances granted are used to settle a liability relating to a previous period, a creditor balance is recorded for the increased liability in the current period.
Under the Renewable Obligations Certificates ROCs scheme, certificates obtained from own generation are awarded by a third party, Ofgem.
Self-generated certificates are recorded at market value and purchased certificates are recognised at cost, both within intangible assets.
The liability under the renewables obligation is recognised based on electricity supplied to customers, the percentages set by Ofgem and the prevailing market price.
The intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of economic benefit.
As a result no amortisation is recorded during the period.
