135 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31. financial instrumEnts anD risK This note presents information about the fair value of the Groups financial instruments, the Groups exposure to the risks associated with those instruments, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further qualitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: kk Credit risk kk Liquidity risk kk Commodity risk kk Currency risk kk Interest rate risk The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board established the Risk and Trading Committee, a standing committee of the Management Board comprising three Executive Directors and senior managers from the Generation and Supply and Finance functions, to oversee the control of these activities.
This committee is discussed further in the Directors Report.
The Groups policies for risk management are established to identify the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
These policies, and the systems used to monitor activities, are reviewed regularly by the Risk and Trading Committee.
Exposure to the commodity, currency and interest rate risks noted arise in the normal course of the Groups business and derivative financial instruments are entered into to hedge exposure to these risks.
The objectives and policies for holding or issuing financial instruments and similar contracts, and the strategies for achieving those objectives that have been followed during the year are explained below.
The Company is required to disclose information on its financial instruments and has adopted policies identical to that of the Group, where applicable.
Separate disclosure is provided where necessary.
Before detailing the relevant qualitative and quantitative disclosures in relation to the potential risks faced by the Group, details on the different categories of financial instrument and the carrying and fair values of each of those categories is provided below.
