Scottish and Southern Energy 90 Annual Report 2011 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1. siGnificant accountinG policiEs continued Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and other directly attributable costs.
All items of property, plant and equipment are accounted for under the cost model within IAS 16.
The purchase price of an asset will include the fair value of the consideration paid to acquire the asset.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, the components are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment, and depreciated accordingly.
ii Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as part of the property, plant and equipment of the Group at the fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also allocated on a straight line basis over the lease term.
iii Hydro civil assets The Group is obliged under the Reservoirs Act 1975 to maintain its hydro infrastructure network, including its dams, tunnels and other hydro civil engineering structures hydro civil assets.
All items of property, plant and equipment within hydro civil assets, with the exception of land, are subject to depreciation.
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1, the Group identified the carrying value of these assets at privatisation and has treated this value as deemed cost.
Following this assessment, the assets, and all subsequent enhancement and replacement expenditure, has been subject to depreciation over a useful economic life of 100 years.
All subsequent maintenance expenditure is chargeable directly to the income statement.
iv Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement to write off cost, less residual values, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives with the exception of gas production assets which are depreciated on the Units of Production basis.
Depreciation policy, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually, for all asset classes to ensure that the current method is the most appropriate.
Depreciation commences following the asset commissioning period and when the asset is available for commercial operation.
The estimated useful lives for assets depreciated on a straight line basis are as follows: years Hydro civil assets 100 Thermal and hydro power stations including electrical and mechanical assets 20 to 60 Operating wind farms 20 to 25 Overhead lines, under ground cables and other network assets 40 to 80 Gas storage facilities 25 to 50 Other transmission and distribution buildings, plant and equipment 10 to 45 Office buildings 30 to 50 Shop and office refurbishment, fixtures, IT assets, vehicles and mobile plant 3 to 10 Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
v Subsequent expenditure It is the Group policy to capitalise qualifying replacement expenditure and depreciate it over the expected useful life of the replaced asset.
Replaced assets are derecognised at this point and the costs recorded as costs of disposal.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is replaced and it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, the cost of the replacement adjusted for inflation will be used as an approximation of the cost of the replaced part at the time it was acquired or constructed.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits of the item of property, plant and equipment to which it relates.
