151 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The average power purchase agreement lease term is 5 years.
The obligations under power purchase agreements with various power generating companies are not deemed to qualify as finance leases under IAS 17.
The Company has no operating lease commitments as a lessee.
b leases as lessor: The Group and Company have no operating lease commitments as a lessor.
iii Guarantees and indemnities Scottish and Southern Energy plc has provided guarantees on behalf of subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings as follows: 2011 2010 m m Bank borrowing 400.0 Performance of contracts 1,851.9 2,042.1 Purchase of gas 50.5 60.5 The Company has entered into guarantees in respect of 50% of the major contracts for the Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds joint venture project which is reflected in the above guarantees.
In addition, unlimited guarantees have been provided on behalf of subsidiary undertakings in relation to six contracts in respect of performance of work and any liabilities arising.
Southern Electric Power Distribution plc and the Company have provided guarantees to the Southern Group of the ESPS in respect of the funding required by the scheme.
Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution plc and the Company have provided guarantees to the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme in respect of funding required by the scheme.
SSE E&P UK Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, has provided a guarantee to Hess Limited in respect of decommissioning liabilities.
The Group has drawn down 400m from its European Investment Bank facility in the year.
SSE Renewables Holdings Limited and SSE Generation Limited, both wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, have entered into guarantee and indemnity agreements with the European Investment Bank for the amounts drawn down.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
34. post BalancE sHEEt EVEnts On 14 April 2011 the Group disposed of three wind farms to Infinis for a final cash consideration of 178.4m.
The wind farms were included in assets held for sale in note 16.
No profit or loss was recognised on this transaction.
