87 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The following amendments to existing standards and interpretations were also effective for the current period, but the adoption of these amendments to existing standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group: kk IFRIC 16, Hedges of Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
kk IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. kk Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2009 were issued in April 2009.
The effective dates vary standard by standard but most are effective 1 January 2010. kk IFRS 2 Amendment, Share Based Payment Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions, effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and IFRIC, which have not been adopted in these condensed interim statements, were in issue but not yet effective: kk Revised IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, issued in November 2009. kk Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement issued in November 2009.
The amendment corrects an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14.
Without the amendment, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2011. kk Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2010, issued in May 2010.
IAS 39 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. kk IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010, although this has not been endorsed by the EU.
The above have not been early adopted by the Group and the impact of adopting these standards and amendments to existing standards is currently being assessed.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries including special purpose entities are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting.
The special purpose entities referred to relate to entities in which the Group has a 50% shareholding but whose activities the Group is deemed to control under SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
In the Company, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, namely where the Group has a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
In the consolidated financial statements, investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Jointly controlled operations are businesses which use assets and liabilities that are separable from the rest of the Group.
In these arrangements, the Group accounts for its own share of property, plant and equipment, carries its own inventories, incurs its own expenses and liabilities and raises its own finance.
In the Company, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from Intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
accounting policies Revenue recognition: energy, services and goods relating to the sale of energy Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue comprises sales of energy, use of system income, gas production revenue, gas storage facility revenue, the value of contracted services and facilities provided and goods sold during the year in the normal course of business.
