78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 102 Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc Company No.
SC100764 We have audited the parent company financial statements of Stagecoach Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2011 which comprise the Company Companies Act 2006 balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that In our opinion: has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been Practice.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent Respective responsibilities of directors and with the parent company financial statements.
auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the Matters on which we are required to report by financial statements set out on page 21, the Directors are responsible for the exception preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing not visited by us: or Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the accounting records and returns: or Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come made: or save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in Other matter the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the We have reported separately on page 40 on the consolidated financial financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by statements of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2011. fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material Michael Timar Senior Statutory Auditor inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of for and on behalf of  LLP any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors implications for our report.
Glasgow 29 June 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. page 102 | Stagecoach Group plc
