78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 46 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies These consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the presentational currency of the Group, and the functional currency of the Company and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
New accounting standards adopted during the year The following new standard has been applied by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 May 2010: IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some significant changes compared with the previous version of IFRS 3.
For example, all acquisition-related costs should be expensed.
The standard was applied to the acquisition of the East London bus business on 14 October 2010.
Acquisition-related costs of 0.6m have been recognised in the consolidated income statement, which previously would have been included in the consideration for the business combination.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 May 2010, but do not have any significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group: Amendments resulting from April 2009 Annual Improvements to IFRSs IFRS 1 revised, First time adoption of IFRSs revised and restructured IFRS 1 amended, First time adoption of IFRSs amendments relating to oil and gas assets and determining whether an arrangement contains a lease IFRS 2 amended, Share-based payment amendments relating to group cash-settled share-based payment transactions IAS 27 amended, Consolidated and separate financial statements consequential amendments arising from amendments to IFRS 3 IAS 28 amended, Investments in associates consequential amendments arising from amendments to IFRS 3 IAS 31 amended, Investments in joint ventures consequential amendments arising from amendments to IFRS 3 IAS 32 amended, Financial instruments: presentation amendments relating to classification of rights issues IAS 39 amended, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement amendments for eligible hedged items IAS 39 amended, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement amendments for embedded derivatives when reclassifying financial instruments IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for financial years beginning on or after the dates disclosed below and therefore after the date of these financial statements.
International Accounting Standards and Interpretations Effective date Amendments resulting from May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 1 January 2011 and later IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards revised January 2010 1 July 2010 IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards revised May 2010 1 January 2011 IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards revised December 2010 1 July 2011 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets.
1 July 2011 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and measurement revised November 2009 1 January 2013 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Instruments 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised June 2011 1 July 2012 IAS 12 Income Taxes Limited scope amendment recovery of underlying assets 1 January 2012 IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised June 2011 1 January 2013 IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised November 2009 1 January 2011 IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements amended in 2011 1 January 2013 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and joint ventures amended in 2011 1 January 2013 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendment re classification of rights issue.
1 February 2011 IFRIC14 Amendment re Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement 1 July 2010 IFRIC19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 The Directors are currently reviewing the requirements of the above standards and interpretations to determine whether they will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Comparatives Where appropriate, comparative figures for the previous year have been adjusted to conform to changes in presentation.
These changes have no impact on the consolidated income statement or on consolidated net assets.
page 46 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 47 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures made up to 30 April in each year.
The consolidated income statement includes the results of businesses purchased from the effective date of acquisition and excludes the results of disposed operations and businesses sold from the effective date of disposal.
Subsidiaries and joint ventures i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries, which are those entities in which the Group has an interest of more than one half of the voting rights or otherwise has power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities, are consolidated.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method also known as the acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recorded as goodwill.
Costs attributable to the acquisition are expensed to the consolidated income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
ii Associates and joint ventures Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method of accounting, the Groups consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of profits less losses of joint ventures, while the share of net assets of joint ventures is included in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Where the Groups share of losses in a joint venture exceeds its interest in that enterprise, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
The Groups reported interest in joint ventures includes goodwill on acquisition.
The Group applies its own accounting policies and estimates when accounting for its share of joint ventures making appropriate adjustments where necessary, having due regard to all relevant factors.
Presentation of income statement and exceptional items Where applicable, income statement information has been presented in a columnar format, which separately highlights intangible asset expenses and exceptional items.
This is intended to enable users of the financial statements to determine more readily the impact of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items on the results of the Group.
Exceptional items are defined in note 36.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs as adopted by the EU requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the period.
Although these estimates and assumptions are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates and assumptions used.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement of tax assets and liabilities, the measurement of contract provisions, the measurement of retirement benefit obligations, the measurement and impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets, the measurement of insurance provisions and the measurement of receivables and payables in relation to rail contracts.
The measurement of tax assets and liabilities requires an assessment to be made of the potential tax consequence of certain items that will only be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
The measurement of contract provisions requires estimates of future cash flows relating to the relevant contracts and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The measurement of retirement benefit obligations requires the estimation of life expectancies, future changes in salaries, inflation, the expected return on scheme assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 26.
The Group determines whether goodwill arising on business combinations is impaired on an annual basis and this requires the estimation of value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 11.
The estimation of the insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The estimation of receivables and payables in relation to rail contracts requires an estimate of the likely outcomes based on interpreting the applicable contracts.
Those accounting policies that the Directors believe require the greatest exercise of judgement are described on page 14.
Revenue Revenue represents gross revenue earned from public transport services and excludes payments received on account.
Amounts receivable for tendered services and concessionary fare schemes are included as part of revenue.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and VAT.
Revenues incidental to the Groups principal activity including advertising income and maintenance income are reported as miscellaneous revenue see note 5.
Rail revenue includes amounts attributable to the train operating companies, based principally on agreed models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry in respect of passenger receipts.
Franchise agreement receipts or payments from or to the Department for Transport DfT are treated as other operating income see note 5.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
Cash received for the sale of season tickets and travelcards is deferred within liabilities and recognised in the income statement over the period covered by the relevant ticket.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 47 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 48 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Revenue continued Income from advertising and other activities is recognised as the income is earned.
Finance income is recognised using the effective interest method as interest accrues.
Under the contractual terms of its franchise agreements to operate rail services, the Group has revenue sharing arrangements with the DfT.
As a result of these arrangements, the Group may be liable to make payments to the DfT or receive amounts from the DfT based on calculations that involve comparison of actual revenue with the target revenue specified in the relevant franchise agreement.
The Group recognises revenue share amounts payable or receivable in the income statement in the same period in which it recognises the related revenue.
Revenue share amounts payable if any are classified within other operating expense and revenue share amounts receivable if any are classified within other operating income.
Performance incentive payments Performance incentive payments made to Network Rail by the Group in respect of train service delivery are recognised in the same period that the performance relates to and are shown as other operating costs.
Government grants Grants from government are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions.
Government grants relating to costs are deferred and recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match them with the costs they are intended to compensate.
Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are recorded as liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lives of the related assets.
Amounts are held as deferred grant income within trade and other payables.
Revenue grants receivable in respect of the operation of rail franchises in the UK are credited to the income statement in the period in which the related expenditure is recognised in the income statement or where they do not relate to any specific expenditure, in the period in respect of which the grant is receivable.
These rail franchise grants are classified within other operating income.
Share based payments The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any non-market based vesting conditions and no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest as a result of a failure to satisfy a non-market based vesting condition.
None of the Groups equity-settled transactions have any market based performance conditions.
Fair value for equity-settled share based payments is estimated by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated based on managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest taking into consideration the likelihood of achieving non-market based vesting conditions.
The movement in this cumulative expense is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled by the Group or the holder, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value.
Fair value is estimated initially at the grant date and at each balance sheet date thereafter until the awards are settled.
Market based performance conditions are taken into account when determining fair value.
Fair value for cash-settled share based payments being only those that relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan is estimated by use of a simulation model.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised representing the estimated fair value of the award and the portion of the vesting period expired as at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the carrying amount of the liability are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Choice of settlement The Company can choose to settle awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan in either cash or equity, although it currently expects to settle all such awards in cash.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are accounted for as cash-settled transactions see above.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and after the share of after-tax results of joint ventures but before finance income, finance costs, non-operating exceptional items, taxation and profit from discontinued operations.
Taxation Tax, current and deferred, is calculated using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
Corporation tax is provided on taxable profit at the current rate applicable.
Tax charges and credits are accounted for through the same primary statement as the related pre-tax item.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax is measured at tax rates that are expected to apply in periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and law enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
page 48 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 49 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Taxation continued Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of operating segments, which for this purpose has been identified as the Board of Directors.
Foreign currency translation The financial statements of foreign operations are maintained in the functional currencies in which the entities transact business.
The trading results of foreign operations are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into sterling using rates of exchange at the relevant balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the opening net assets and results of overseas operations, together with exchange differences arising on net foreign currency borrowings and foreign currency derivatives, to the extent they hedge the Groups investment in overseas operations, are recognised as a separate component of equity being the translation reserve.
Further information on the Groups accounting policy on hedges of net investments in a foreign entity is provided on page 53.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal of a foreign subsidiary, the amount of any exchange differences relating to the subsidiary that has been deferred in the translation reserve is recognised in the income statement within the reported gain or loss on disposal.
The principal rates of exchange applied to the consolidated financial statements were: 2011 2010 US Dollar: Year end rate 1.6680 1.5307 Average rate 1.5646 1.6020 Canadian Dollar: Year end rate 1.5827 1.5504 Average rate 1.5823 1.7189 Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given for a business over the fair value of such net assets.
The fair value of intangible assets and acquired customer contract provisions on the acquisition of a business are amortised to the income statement in line with the projected cash flows.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prior to 1 May 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased on 30 April 2004 but goodwill amortisation expensed prior to 1 May 2004 was not reversed.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 May 2004 is measured at the amount recognised under the Groups previous accounting framework, UK GAAP.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year ended 30 April 1998 and earlier periods was written off directly to equity in accordance with the UK accounting standards then in force.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill remains eliminated against reserves.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Any impairment of goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where goodwill other than that already written off directly to equity forms part of a cash generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the disposed operation when determining the overall gain or loss on disposal.
Impairment of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets excluding goodwill, financial assets and other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Marketing costs incurred during the start-up phase of a new activity are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 49 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 50 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from a business combination are initially capitalised at cost and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The initial cost recognised is the aggregate amount paid plus the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably and are subsequently measured at fair value less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated on the straight-line method to write-off the cost or fair value at acquisition as the case may be of each asset over their estimated useful lives shown below.
Intangible assets relating to rail franchises of a finite duration are amortised over the life of the franchise.
Customer contracts over the life of the contract 1 to 5 years for current contracts Right to operate rail franchises over the life of the franchise 10 years from February 2007 to February 2017 for South Western Trains franchise and 7 years and 4 months from November 2007 to March 2015 for East Midlands Trains franchise Non-compete contracts between 2 and 5 years for current contracts Software costs 2 to 7 years Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired as part of a business combination is stated at fair value at the date of acquisition and is subsequently measured at fair value on acquisition less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write off the cost, fair value at acquisition or deemed cost of each asset to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Heritable and freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 50 years Short leasehold properties period of lease IT and other equipment, furniture and fittings 3 to 10 years Passenger Service Vehicles PSVs and transportation equipment 7 to 16 years Motor cars and other vehicles 3 to 5 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
The useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at least annually and, where applicable, adjustments are made on a prospective basis.
An item of property, plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal.
An item on which no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset is impaired if it is continued to be used by the Group.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds received with the carrying amount of the asset and are included in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Group.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO or average cost method.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.
Pre-contract costs The costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred, except when at the time the costs are incurred it is probable that a contract will be awarded, in which case they are recognised as an asset and are charged to the income statement over the life of the franchise.
Hire purchase and lease obligations Assets acquired under hire purchase and finance lease arrangements, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Fixed lease payments are apportioned between the finance costs, and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance costs are charged directly against income and are reported within finance costs in the consolidated income statement.
Assets capitalised under finance leases and other similar contracts are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful economic lives.
Assets capitalised under hire purchase contracts are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The principal restriction on assets held under finance lease or hire purchase agreements is a restriction on the right to dispose of the assets during the period of the agreement.
Tokens Tokens issued by National Transport Tokens Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, to facilitate public passenger travel in the United Kingdom are credited to a token redemption provision to the extent they are expected to be redeemed by customers.
Redemptions are offset against this provision and associated handling commission paid to third parties is included in operating costs.
Funds from the sale of tokens required for token redemption are included as a financing activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
page 50 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 51 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Tokens continued The estimate of the balance sheet provision for token redemptions is remeasured at each balance sheet date and is based on the value of tokens issued by the Group but not yet redeemed or cancelled at the balance sheet date.
Allowance is made for the estimated proportion of tokens in issue that will never be redeemed.
This allowance is estimated with reference to historic redemption rates.
At 30 April 2011, it has been estimated that 97% 30 April 2010: 97% of tokens in issue will be redeemed.
Restructuring provisions Provisions for restructuring are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of associated costs can be made.
Insurance The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee claims.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made on a discounted basis for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimate of the balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement of known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not yet been reported to the Group.
The provision is set after taking account of advice from third party actuaries.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group contributes to a number of pension schemes as described in note 26.
In respect of defined benefit schemes, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst scheme assets are recorded at market value.
In relation to each scheme, the recognised net asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the scheme or on settlement of the scheme liabilities.
The operating and financing costs of defined benefit plans are included within operating profit and are disclosed separately in the notes to the financial statements: service costs are spread systematically over the working lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Mortality rates are considered when retirement benefit obligations are calculated.
Past service costs and adjustments are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period the vesting period, in which case the past service costs are amortised using a straight-line method over the vesting period.
Curtailments arise where the Group makes a material reduction in the number of employees covered by a pension scheme or amends a defined benefit pension schemes terms such that a material element of future service by current employees will qualify for no or significantly reduced benefits.
Settlements arise when the Group enters into a transaction that eliminates all or part of the Groups obligations for benefits provided under a defined benefit pension scheme.
The gain or loss arising on a settlement or curtailment comprises the resulting change in the net pension asset or liability, and such gain or loss is recognised in the income statement when the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Where the gain or loss is related to a disposal of a business, it is included within the reported gain or loss on disposal within profit or loss from discontinued operations.
A full actuarial valuation is undertaken triennially for each scheme and updated annually using independent actuaries following the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the scheme obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related obligations.
Experience adjustments and changes in assumptions which affect actuarial gains and losses are reflected in the actuarial gain or loss for the year.
The liability or asset recognised for the relevant sections of the Railways Pension Scheme represents only that part of the net deficit or surplus of each section that the employer expects to fund or recover over the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions to separately administered pension schemes.
Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Financial instruments The disclosure of the accounting policies that follow for financial instruments are those that apply under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified, as appropriate, as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments or as available for sale.
They include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on inception are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss where the assets meet the criteria for such classification.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short-term.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Assets in this category are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables: Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either at fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are discounted to the present value at the point they are first recognised and are subsequently amortised to the invoice amount by the payment due Stagecoach Group plc | page 51 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Financial assets continued date.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered in evaluating whether a trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within Other external charges.
When a trade receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
Held-to-maturity investments: The Group has no financial assets classified as held-to-maturity investments.
Available for sale financial assets: Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the above categories.
These are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of them within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
After initial recognition, available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the asset is derecognised or until the asset is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is included in the income statement.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss - measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss - is removed from equity and is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial liabilities When a financial liability is recognised initially, the Group measures it at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability.
Financial liabilities include trade payables, other payables, borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement depends on its classification as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Financial liabilities classified as held for trading and derivative liabilities that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Such liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses being recognised in the income statement.
Other: All other financial liabilities not classified as fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to appropriate market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using pricing models and discounted cash flow analysis.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, including intra-group transactions: or Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity.
Net gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, are taken to the income statement.
These may arise from derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they are either not designated or not effective as hedging instruments from an accounting perspective.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Fair value hedges: For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from both the derivative and the hedged item are taken to the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
For hedged items carried at amortised cost, the hedge adjustment is amortised through the income statement such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
Cash flow hedges: For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For cash flow hedges of forecast fuel purchases, the transfer is to operating costs within the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recorded in the statement of recognised income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the income statement.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement immediately.
page 52 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 53 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: For hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in the statement of comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the foreign entity is sold.
Non-derivative financial liabilities can be designated as hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity and are subject to the same requirements as derivative hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective yield method subject to any adjustments in respect of fair value hedges: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Interest on borrowings to purchase property, plant and equipment is expensed in the income statement.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer or rollover settlement for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost which approximates to nominal value due to creditors days being relatively low.
Preferred shares Preferred shares, which are redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholder, or which carry non-discretionary dividend obligations, are classified as liabilities.
The dividend on these preferred shares is recognised in the income statement as an interest expense.
Share capital and dividends Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company, its subsidiaries or employee share ownership trusts sponsored by the Company purchase ordinary shares in the Company, the consideration paid, including any attributable incremental external costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recorded in the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Groups shareholders, or in the case of interim dividends, in the period in which they are paid.
The accounting policy in relation to preferred shares and dividends payable on such shares is included in the accounting policy for financial instruments above.
Note 2 Segmental information Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors that are used to make strategic decisions.
The Group is managed, and reports internally, on a basis consistent with its four continuing operating segments, being UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus London, North America and UK Rail.
The Groups IFRS accounting policies are applied consistently, where appropriate, to each segment.
The segmental information provided in this note is on the basis of four operating segments as follows: Segment name Service operated Country of operation UK Bus regional operations Coach and bus operations United Kingdom UK Bus London Bus operations United Kingdom North America Coach and bus operations USA and Canada UK Rail Rail operations United Kingdom The basis of segmentation is consistent with the Groups last annual financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010, except that the new UK Bus London operating segment consists of the East London Bus business acquired by the Group in October 2010.
Management has determined that the East London Bus business should be treated as a separate operating segment as it is managed separately to our UK Bus regional operations and is reported separately to the Board of Directors, reflecting the different risk profile of the business.
The Group has interests in three trading joint ventures: Virgin Rail Group that operates in UK Rail, Citylink that operates in UK Bus regional operations and Twin America LLC that operates in North America.
The results of these joint ventures are shown separately in notes 2 c and 2 g. The Group has an interest in a non-trading joint venture, New York Splash Tours LLC, which operated in North America until trading ceased in the year ended 30 April 2010. a Revenue Due to the nature of the Groups business, the origin and destination of revenue is the same in all cases.
As the Group sells bus and rail services to individuals, it has few customers that are individually major.
Its major customers are typically public bodies that subsidise or procure transport services such customers include local authorities, transport authorities and the UK Department for Transport.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 53 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 54 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 Segmental information continued a Revenue continued Revenue split by segment was as follows: 2011 2010 m m Continuing operations UK Bus regional operations 893.6 875.4 UK Bus London 133.6 Nil North America 295.1 266.1 Total bus continuing operations 1,322.3 1,141.5 UK Rail 1,070.0 1,026.7 Total Group revenue 2,392.3 2,168.2 Intra-Group revenue UK Bus regional operations 2.5 3.8 Reported Group revenue 2,389.8 2,164.4 b Operating profit Operating profit split by segment was as follows: 2011 2010 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year m m m m m m Continuing operations UK Bus regional operations 153.1 Nil 153.1 126.1 2.6 123.5 UK Bus London 5.9 Nil 5.9 Nil Nil Nil North America 19.3 Nil 19.3 9.1 Nil 9.1 Total bus continuing operations 166.5 Nil 166.5 135.2 2.6 132.6 UK Rail 48.4 Nil 48.4 41.6 Nil 41.6 Total continuing operations 214.9 Nil 214.9 176.8 2.6 174.2 Group overheads 11.3 Nil 11.3 11.6 Nil 11.6 Intangible asset expenses Nil 10.1 10.1 Nil 6.0 6.0 Restructuring costs 2.9 Nil 2.9 1.2 0.8 0.4 Total operating profit of continuing Group companies 200.7 10.1 190.6 164.0 7.8 156.2 Share of joint ventures profit after finance income and taxation 39.5 5.1 34.4 28.0 5.1 22.9 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit after taxation 240.2 15.2 225.0 192.0 12.9 179.1 The reported operating loss for UK Bus London of 5.9m is after taking account of i a 3.2m release from the provision that was recorded as at acquisition in respect of acquired customer contracts and ii 9.9m of costs in relation to rebasing of staff terms and conditions.
page 54 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 55 Note 2 Segmental information continued c Joint ventures The share of profit from joint ventures was further split as follows: 2011 2010 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year m m m m m m Continuing Virgin Rail Group UK Rail Operating profit 39.5 Nil 39.5 25.5 Nil 25.5 Finance income net 0.2 Nil 0.2 0.2 Nil 0.2 Taxation 11.3 Nil 11.3 6.5 Nil 6.5 28.4 Nil 28.4 19.2 Nil 19.2 Goodwill charged on investment in continuing joint ventures Nil 5.1 5.1 Nil 5.1 5.1 28.4 5.1 23.3 19.2 5.1 14.1 Citylink UK Bus, regional operations Operating profit 2.5 Nil 2.5 1.7 Nil 1.7 Taxation 0.7 Nil 0.7 0.5 Nil 0.5 1.8 Nil 1.8 1.2 Nil 1.2 New York Splash Tours LLC North America Operating loss Nil Nil Nil 0.9 Nil 0.9 Nil Nil Nil 0.9 Nil 0.9 Twin America LLC North America Operating profit 9.7 Nil 9.7 8.9 Nil 8.9 Taxation 0.4 Nil 0.4 0.4 Nil 0.4 9.3 Nil 9.3 8.5 Nil 8.5 Share of profit of joint ventures after finance income and taxation 39.5 5.1 34.4 28.0 5.1 22.9 d Gross assets and liabilities Assets and liabilities split by segment were as follows: 2011 2010 Gross Net assets Gross Net assets assets Gross liabilities liabilities assets Gross liabilities liabilities m m m m m m UK Bus regional operations 733.9 240.0 493.9 693.3 323.9 369.4 UK Bus London 146.0 92.1 53.9 Nil Nil Nil North America 266.9 76.3 190.6 271.7 83.7 188.0 UK Rail 232.5 411.6 179.1 196.6 416.6 220.0 1,379.3 820.0 559.3 1,161.6 824.2 337.4 Central functions 29.3 38.4 9.1 25.2 69.8 44.6 Joint ventures 58.1 Nil 58.1 56.7 Nil 56.7 Borrowings and cash 358.3 654.6 296.3 375.7 676.9 301.2 Taxation 1.4 67.2 65.8 2.7 38.3 35.6 Total 1,826.4 1,580.2 246.2 1,621.9 1,609.2 12.7 Central assets and liabilities include the token provision, interest payable and receivable and other net assets of the holding company and other head office companies.
Segment assets and liabilities are determined by identifying the assets and liabilities that relate to the business of each segment but excluding intraGroup balances, cash, borrowings, taxation, interest payable, interest receivable and the token provision.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 55 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 Segmental information continued e Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment The capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment is shown below and is on an accruals basis, not on a cash basis, and includes expenditure on property, plant and equipment through business combinations.
2011 2010 m m UK Bus regional operations 85.1 98.2 UK Bus London 99.3 Nil North America 31.4 14.5 UK Rail 34.2 45.1 250.0 157.8 Capital expenditure, excluding business combinations is analysed in section 3.8.
10 of the Operating and Financial Review.
f Capital expenditure on intangible assets The capital expenditure on intangible assets including goodwill is shown below and includes acquisitions through business combinations.
2011 2010 m m UK Bus regional operations 0.5 2.2 UK Bus London 21.4 Nil UK Rail Nil 0.9 21.9 3.1 g Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA The results of each segment are further analysed below: Year ended 30 April 2011 EBITDA Operating profit EBITDA Joint venture including joint pre intangibles Intangible Allocation pre-exceptional interest and venture interest Depreciation and exceptional asset Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax and tax expense items expenses items costs profit m m m m m m m m m UK Bus regional operations 213.9 Nil 213.9 60.8 153.1 1.2 Nil 0.3 151.6 UK Bus London 3.2 Nil 3.2 2.7 5.9 6.3 Nil 0.3 12.5 North America 40.4 Nil 40.4 21.1 19.3 0.1 Nil 0.7 18.5 UK Rail subsidiaries 54.0 Nil 54.0 5.6 48.4 2.5 Nil 1.3 44.6 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 39.5 11.1 28.4 Nil 28.4 5.1 Nil Nil 23.3 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 2.5 0.7 1.8 Nil 1.8 Nil Nil Nil 1.8 North America joint ventures Splash Tours and Twin America 9.7 0.4 9.3 Nil 9.3 Nil Nil Nil 9.3 Group overheads 11.2 Nil 11.2 0.1 11.3 Nil Nil 0.3 11.6 Restructuring costs 2.9 Nil 2.9 Nil 2.9 Nil Nil 2.9 Nil 342.7 12.2 330.5 90.3 240.2 15.2 Nil Nil 225.0 Year ended 30 April 2010 EBITDA Operating profit EBITDA Joint venture including joint Depreciation pre intangibles Intangible Allocation pre-exceptional interest and venture interest & impairment and exceptional asset Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax and tax expense items expenses items costs profit m m m m m m m m m UK Bus regional operations 180.9 Nil 180.9 54.8 126.1 3.1 2.6 0.2 120.2 North America 29.2 Nil 29.2 20.1 9.1 0.4 Nil 0.3 8.4 UK Rail subsidiaries 58.3 Nil 58.3 16.7 41.6 2.5 Nil 0.3 39.4 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 25.5 6.3 19.2 Nil 19.2 5.1 Nil Nil 14.1 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 1.7 0.5 1.2 Nil 1.2 Nil Nil Nil 1.2 North America joint ventures Splash Tours and Twin America 8.0 0.4 7.6 Nil 7.6 Nil Nil Nil 7.6 Group overheads 11.3 Nil 11.3 0.3 11.6 Nil Nil 0.2 11.8 Restructuring costs 1.2 Nil 1.2 Nil 1.2 Nil 0.8 0.4 Nil 291.1 7.2 283.9 91.9 192.0 11.1 1.8 Nil 179.1 page 56 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 57 Note 3 Operating costs Operating costs were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Materials and consumables 289.7 300.0 Staff costs note 7 941.9 826.6 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment owned assets 59.0 46.0 assets held under hire purchase agreements and finance leases 31.3 31.2 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 0.9 2.0 Impairment of plant and equipment Nil 14.7 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 31.4 18.2 Amortisation of intangible assets note 12 10.1 6.0 Network Rail charges 225.3 222.7 Operating lease rentals payable plant and equipment 136.0 146.1 property 8.5 7.1 Other external charges exceptional Nil 2.6 non-exceptional 339.8 331.4 Restructuring costs exceptional Nil 0.8 non-exceptional 2.9 1.2 Total operating costs 2,076.8 1,955.0 Amounts payable to  LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of audit and nonaudit services are shown below: 2011 2010 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys financial statements and consolidated financial statements 25.0 20.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 794.9 710.5 Total audit fees 819.9 730.5 Assurance services pursuant to legislation NiNil Nil Other assurance services see below 28.4 323.0 Tax advisory services Nil 55.6 Provision of training and related materials 2.9 2.0 Non-audit fees 31.3 380.6 Total fees payable by the Group to its auditors 851.2 1,111.1 The fees payable to the auditors for other assurance services of 323,000 shown above for the year ended 30 April 2010 include 295,000 in relation to the issue of corporate bonds and the proposal to acquire certain businesses of, or merge with, National Express Group plc.
This related to work that was best undertaken by the auditors in respect of a shareholder circular, a review of the adequacy of the Groups working capital and advice on the accounting and legal structuring of the proposal.
In addition to the fees detailed above,  LLP received US$120,000 2010: US$110,000 in relation to the audit of our joint venture, Twin America LLC.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 29, and includes an explanation of how auditor independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 57 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 58 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 Exceptional items and intangible asset expenses The Group highlights amounts before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items as well as clearly reporting the results in accordance with IFRS.
Information on exceptional items is provided in section 3.8.
2 of the Operating and Financial Review.
The items shown in the column headed Intangibles and exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 April 2011 can be further analysed as follows: 2011 Exceptional Intangible Intangibles and items asset expenses exceptional items m m m Operating costs Intangible asset expenses Nil 10.1 10.1 Share of profit of joint ventures Goodwill charged on investment in joint ventures Nil 5.1 5.1 Non-operating exceptional items continuing operations Loss on sale of properties 0.1 Nil 0.1 Revision to the estimated insurance provision relating to pre-acquisition liabilities 4.6 Nil 4.6 Expenses incurred in relation to acquisition of East London bus business 0.6 Nil 0.6 Loss on disposal of operations note 17 3.2 Nil 3.2 Non-operating exceptional items continuing operations 0.7 Nil 0.7 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items continuing operations 0.7 15.2 14.5 Tax effect of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 1.3 3.1 1.8 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taxation continuing operations 0.6 12.1 12.7 Resolution of certain liabilities re disposals discontinued operations 18.5 Nil 18.5 The items shown in the column headed Intangibles and exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement for the prior year comparatives can be further analysed as follows: 2010 Exceptional Intangible Intangibles and items asset expenses exceptional items m m m Operating costs Restructuring costs release of unutilised provision 0.8 Nil 0.8 Costs of participation in the Competition Commission study of the UK local bus market 2.6 Nil 2.6 Intangible asset expenses Nil 6.0 6.0 1.8 6.0 7.8 Share of profit of joint ventures Goodwill charged on investment in joint ventures Nil 5.1 5.1 Non-operating exceptional items continuing operations Gain on sale of properties 4.3 Nil 4.3 Loss on disposal of operations note 17 3.2 Nil 3.2 Loss on exit from certain operations 0.8 Nil 0.8 Expenses incurred in relation to proposal to acquire certain businesses of, or merge with, National Express Group plc 2.3 Nil 2.3 Non-operating exceptional items continuing operations 2.0 Nil 2.0 Exceptional finance costs Loss on ineffective interest rate swaps following issuance of sterling bond 20.5 Nil 20.5 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items continuing operations 24.3 11.1 35.4 Tax effect of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 7.4 1.7 9.1 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taxation continuing operations 16.9 9.4 26.3 Resolution of certain liabilities re disposals discontinued operations 3.9 Nil 3.9 page 58 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 59 Note 4 Exceptional items and intangible asset expenses continued The goodwill charged on investment in joint ventures is an annual charge for goodwill in relation to our investment in Virgin Rail Group.
On adoption of IFRS, the Group took the exemption offered under IFRS 1 not to restate prior period business combinations.
Accordingly, the goodwill arising under UK GAAP on the acquisition of the 49% stake in Virgin Rail Group was carried over to IFRS.
However, Virgin Rail Groups only significant business is the operation of the West Coast Trains rail franchise, which has a finite duration as the franchise ends on a particular date.
We therefore have to reduce the goodwill in relation to Virgin Rail Group with an annual charge to reflect the fact that we should have no goodwill left at the end of the current West Coast Trains rail franchise.
Whilst IFRS generally prohibits the amortisation of goodwill, the treatment adopted is a result of an anomaly on the first-time adoption of IFRS that would not arise if IFRS were applied to new acquisitions of businesses.
Note 5 Other operating expense income Other operating expense income was as follows: 2011 2010 m m Miscellaneous revenue 94.3 87.7 Rail franchise premia 284.8 148.7 Rail revenue support 68.1 7.8 122.4 53.2 Miscellaneous revenue comprises revenue incidental to the Groups principal activities.
It includes commissions receivable, advertising income, maintenance income, railway station access income, railway depot access income, fuel sales and property income.
Rail franchise premia is the amount of financial premia payable to the Department for Transport DfT in respect of the operation of UK passenger rail franchises.
Rail revenue support is the amount of additional financial support receivable from the DfT in certain circumstances where a train operating companys revenue is below target.
Note 6 Finance costs and income Net finance costs included: 2011 2010 m m Finance costs Interest payable and other facility costs on bank loans, loan notes and overdrafts 5.7 4.5 Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 6.8 7.3 Interest payable and other finance costs on bonds 23.5 16.1 Fair value losses on financial instruments not qualifying as hedges: Foreign exchange derivative contracts Nil 5.1 Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.9 3.7 Interest payable on interest rate swaps qualifying as cashflow hedges Nil 4.8 39.9 41.5 Finance income Interest receivable 2.2 4.0 Interest receivable on interest rate swaps qualifying as fair value hedges 3.2 1.3 Exchange gains on retranslation of US$ bonds Nil 5.5 5.4 10.8 Net finance costs before exceptional items 34.5 30.7 Exceptional item Ineffective interest rate swaps Nil 20.5 Net finance costs 34.5 51.2 No interest 2010: Nil was capitalised during the year.
At 1 May 2009, the US$293.1m of US$ notes and a US$20.0m foreign currency derivative contract were designated as a hedge of overseas net investments.
On 7 July 2009, this hedge relationship was fide-designated.
On the same day, the Group took out US$ derivative contracts, with notional amounts totalling US$342.0m to give certainty of the sterling value of the redemption payment that would be made by the Group when the US$ notes matured on 16 November 2009.
Exchange gains on the US$ notes in the period from 7 July 2009 to 16 November 2009 of 5.5m are included within finance income above.
The notional value of the derivative contracts exceeded the outstanding US$ notes in order to take account of the tax effect of the transactions.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 59 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 60 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7 Staff costs Total staff costs were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Staff costs Wages and salaries 823.7 714.1 Social security costs 68.8 58.8 Pension costs note 26 42.2 44.8 Share based payment costs excluding social security costs Equity-settled 4.7 6.3 Cash-settled 2.5 2.6 941.9 826.6 2011 2010 m m Summary of directors remuneration Aggregate emoluments including bonuses awarded in deferred shares 2.5 2.3 Amount waived by a director 0.3 0.3 2.2 2.0 Gains made by directors on exercise of share options Nil 0.1 2.2 2.1 Payments made in the year under the Long Term Incentive Plan Nil 2.2 2.2 4.3 In the table above, awards made under the Executive Participation Plan are shown in the year in respect of which the award was made and the amount is included at its fair value on the grant date.
Awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan are shown in the year in which the payments are made and the amount is included at the gross amount payable.
Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors and further information on their remuneration, share options, incentive schemes and pensions is contained within the Directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 38.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors was as follows: 2011 2010 number number UK operations 24,802 23,240 UK administration and supervisory 3,140 2,912 Overseas 3,857 3,774 31,799 29,926 The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year, split by segment, was as follows: 2011 2010 number number UK Bus regional operations 18,294 18,842 UK Bus London 2,429 Nil North America 3,857 3,774 UK Rail 7,090 7,177 Central 129 133 31,799 29,926 page 60 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 61 Note 8 Taxation a Analysis of charge in the year 2011 2010 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year Notes m m m m m m Current tax: UK corporation tax at 27.8% 2010: 28% 26.3 1.8 24.5 12.7 9.1 3.6 Prior year over provision for corporation tax 2.2 Nil 2.2 0.9 Nil 0.9 Foreign tax current year 0.4 Nil 0.4 0.4 Nil 0.4 Foreign tax adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 Nil 0.2 1.0 Nil 1.0 Total current tax 24.3 1.8 22.5 13.2 9.1 4.1 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7.4 Nil 7.4 14.9 Nil 14.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.4 Nil 3.4 0.9 Nil 0.9 Total deferred tax 10.8 Nil 10.8 14.0 Nil 14.0 Total tax on profit 35.1 1.8 33.3 27.2 9.1 18.1 b Factors affecting tax charge for the year 2011 2010 m m Profit before taxation continuing operations 191.2 125.9 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax applying to the year in the UK of 27.8% 2010: 28% 53.2 35.3 Effects of: Intangible asset allowances deductions 1.2 1.4 Non-deductible expenditure non-taxable income 1.6 0.2 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised as deferred tax assets 11.6 13.5 Foreign taxes differences 1.6 1.3 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 1.0 0.8 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 8.4 5.4 Change in UK corporation rate to 26% from 1 April 2011 5.3 Nil Total taxation note 8a 33.3 18.1 c Factors that may affect future tax charges There are no temporary differences associated with investments in overseas subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised.
Gross deductible temporary differences of 72.8m 2010: 105.8m have not been recognised due to restrictions in the availability of their use.
Temporary differences in respect of the revaluation of land and buildings and in respect of rolled over capital gains are fully offset by temporary differences in respect of capital losses.
In the 2010 budget on 22 June 2010, the UK Government announced its intention to reduce the UK corporate income tax rate from 28% to 24% by 1% per annum over a four-year period.
Furthermore on 23 March 2011, the UK Government announced its intention to further reduce the rate with effect from 1 April 2011 by another 1% to 26% creating a 23% main rate by 2014.
The deferred tax balances as at 30 April 2011 have been determined with reference to the enacted UK corporate income tax rate of 26%.
The rate change reduction to 25% which is proposed to take effect from 1 April 2012 had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Had the reduction to 25% been substantively enacted the estimated impact of this reduction on the deferred tax liability would have been a reduction of 1.8m.
d Tax on items taken directly or transferred from equity The components of tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity are shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on page 42.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 61 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 62 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 9 Dividends Dividends payable in respect of ordinary shares are shown below.
Dividends payable in respect of B Shares are included as an expense in finance costs.
2011 2010 2011 2010 pence per share pence per share m m Amounts recognised as distributions in the year Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend in respect of the previous year Nil 4.2 Nil 30.1 Interim dividends in respect of the current year 2.2 6.5 15.8 46.6 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year 2.2 10.7 15.8 76.7 Dividends proposed but neither paid nor included as liabilities in the financial statements Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend in respect of the current year 4.9 Nil 35.2 Nil The dividends proposed or declared and the actual dividends recognised as distributions can differ slightly due to the number of shares at the balance sheet date being different to the number outstanding at the record date.
Note 10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding any ordinary shares held by employee share ownership trusts.
The diluted earnings per share was calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares in relation to share options and long-term incentive plans.
In respect of share options, a calculation was performed to determine the number of ordinary shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined based on the average annual market share price of the Companys ordinary shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of ordinary shares calculated as above was compared with the number of ordinary shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
The difference was added to the denominator as an issue of ordinary shares for no consideration and no adjustment was made to earnings numerator.
of shares million million Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 717.5 716.2 Dilutive ordinary shares Executive Share Option Scheme 0.3 0.6 Long Term Incentive Plan 3.2 3.1 Executive Participation Plan 4.1 3.7 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 725.1 723.6 2011 2010 m m Profit after taxation for basic EPS calculation 176.4 111.7 Intangible asset expenses see note 4 15.2 11.1 Exceptional items before tax see note 4 0.7 24.3 Tax effect of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items see note 4 1.8 9.1 Profit for the year from discontinued operations see note 4 18.5 3.9 Profit for adjusted EPS calculation 170.6 134.1 page 62 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 63 Note 10 Earnings per share continued Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items is calculated by adding back intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taking account of taxation, as shown on the consolidated income statement on page 41.
This has been presented to allow shareholders to gain a further understanding of the underlying performance.
The basic and diluted earnings per share can be analysed as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average number Earnings average number Earnings Earnings of shares per share Earnings of shares per share m Million Pence m Million Pence Basic Continuing operations 157.9 717.5 22.0 107.8 716.2 15.1 Discontinued operations 18.5 717.5 2.6 3.9 716.2 0.5 176.4 717.5 24.6 111.7 716.2 15.6 Adjusted basic Continuing operations 170.6 717.5 23.8 134.1 716.2 18.7 Discontinued operations Nil 717.5 Nil Nil 716.2 Nil 170.6 717.5 23.8 134.1 716.2 18.7 Diluted Continuing operations 157.9 725.1 21.7 107.8 723.6 14.9 Discontinued operations 18.5 725.1 2.6 3.9 723.6 0.5 176.4 725.1 24.3 111.7 723.6 15.4 Adjusted diluted Continuing operations 170.6 725.1 23.5 134.1 723.6 18.5 Discontinued operations Nil 725.1 Nil Nil 723.6 Nil 170.6 725.1 23.5 134.1 723.6 18.5 There have been no ordinary share transactions between the balance sheet date and the date of approval of this report that would have significantly changed the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 30 April 2011.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 63 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 11 Goodwill The movements in goodwill were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Cost and net book value At beginning of year 99.4 99.9 Acquired through business combinations 3.7 1.7 Disposals 2.5 Nil Foreign exchange movements 5.3 2.2 At end of year 95.3 99.4 For the purpose of impairment testing, all goodwill that has been acquired in business combinations has been allocated to three individual cash generating units CGUs on the basis of the Groups operations.
Each cash generating unit is an operational division.
The UK Bus regional operations and UK Bus London cash generating units operate coach and bus operations in the United Kingdom.
The North America Bus cash generating unit operates coach and bus operations in the US and Canada.
No goodwill has been allocated to the Groups rail operations.
The cash generating units are as follows: UK Bus UK Bus North America regional operations London 2011 2010 2011 2011 2010 m m m m m Carrying amount of goodwill 32.4 34.8 3.6 59.3 64.6 Carrying value of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined Value in use Value in use Value in use Value in use Value in use Period covered by approved management plans used in value in use calculation 5 years 5 years 5 years 5 years 5 years Pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections 10.3% 11.8% 10.3% 13.3% 14.8% Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond period of management plan 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 1.7% 2.0% Difference between above growth rate and long-term average growth rate for market in which unit operates Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil The calculation of value in use for each cash generating unit shown above is most sensitive to the assumptions on discount rates and growth rates and in the case of UK Bus London, the number of new contracts won and the terms of such contracts..
The assumptions used are considered to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
The principal risks and uncertainties are set out in section 3.10 of the Operating and Financial Review.
The cost base of the UK Bus regional operations and North American Bus operations can be flexed in response to changes in revenue and there is scope to reduce capital expenditure in the medium-term if other cash flows deteriorate.
Risks to the cash flow forecasts remain, however, and are described in section 3.10.
The cost base of UK Bus London is less flexible because the business is contractually committed to operate the majority of its services.
The discount rates have been determined with reference to the estimated post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC of the Group.
The WACC has been estimated as at 30 April 2011 at 7.6% based on: The market capitalisation and net debt of the Group as at 30 April 2011 as an indication of the split between debt and equity: A risk-free rate of 3.3%: A levered beta for the Group of 1.0: A marginal pre-tax cost of debt of 5.6%.
The pre-tax discount rate for each CGU has been determined by adjusting the Groups WACC for the risk profile and effects of tax on each of the relevant CGUs.
The Directors believe that in the case of each of the cash generating units shown above, any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amount of the unit is based would not cause its carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
page 64 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 65 Note 12 Other intangible assets The movements in other intangible assets were as follows: Year ended 30 April 2011 Customer Non-compete Rail Software contracts contracts franchises costs Total m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 18.6 12.7 19.7 1.7 52.7 Additions Nil Nil Nil 0.4 0.4 Acquired through business combinations 17.8 Nil Nil Nil 17.8 Disposals 0.2 Nil Nil 0.1 0.3 Foreign exchange movements Nil 0.4 Nil Nil 0.4 At end of year 36.2 12.3 19.7 2.0 70.2 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 17.1 12.3 6.6 0.6 36.6 Amortisation charged to income statement 7.1 0.3 2.1 0.6 10.1 Disposals 0.2 Nil Nil 0.1 0.3 Foreign exchange movements Nil 0.4 Nil Nil 0.4 At end of year 24.0 12.2 8.7 1.1 46.0 Net book value at beginning of year 1.5 0.4 13.1 1.1 16.1 Net book value at end of year 12.2 0.1 11.0 0.9 24.2 Intangible assets include customer contracts purchased as part of the Groups business combinations, non-compete contracts, the right to operate UK Rail franchises and software costs.
The amortisation of each of the above intangible assets is included within the operating costs line of the income statement.
Intangible assets arising during the year including any acquired through business combinations and the amortisation periods are as follows: Amortisation Intangible period additions years m Subsidiaries UK Bus regional operations additions 1-3 0.4 Subsidiaries UK Bus London additions 1-5 17.8 18.2 Customer Non-compete Rail Software Year ended 30 April 2010 contracts contracts franchises costs Total m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 18.1 17.3 19.7 0.8 55.9 Additions Nil Nil Nil 0.9 0.9 Acquired through business combinations 0.5 Nil Nil Nil 0.5 Disposals Nil 4.1 Nil Nil 4.1 Foreign exchange movements Nil 0.5 Nil Nil 0.5 At end of year 18.6 12.7 19.7 1.7 52.7 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 15.6 11.1 4.4 0.3 31.4 Amortisation charged to income statement 1.5 2.0 2.2 0.3 6.0 Disposals Nil 0.6 Nil Nil 0.6 Foreign exchange movements Nil 0.2 Nil Nil 0.2 At end of year 17.1 12.3 6.6 0.6 36.6 Net book value at beginning of year 2.5 6.2 15.3 0.5 24.5 Net book value at end of year 1.5 0.4 13.1 1.1 16.1 Stagecoach Group plc | page 65 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 66 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 13 Property, plant and equipment The movements in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Land and Passenger Other plant Year ended 30 April 2011 buildings service vehicles and equipment Total m m m m Cost At beginning of year 237.2 1,001.7 161.6 1,400.5 Additions 10.7 117.4 39.7 167.8 Acquired through business combinations 39.7 41.0 1.5 82.2 Disposals of subsidiaries 0.6 6.5 0.6 7.7 Disposals 0.6 70.2 11.8 82.6 Foreign exchange movements 2.6 21.4 0.1 24.1 Reclassifications Nil 3.0 3.0 Nil At end of year 283.8 1,059.0 193.3 1,536.1 Depreciation At beginning of year 29.1 453.6 121.6 604.3 Depreciation charged to income statement 5.7 73.5 11.1 90.3 Disposals of subsidiaries 0.2 3.5 0.5 4.2 Disposals 0.2 62.7 3.2 66.1 Foreign exchange movements 1.0 11.6 0.1 12.5 Reclassifications Nil 3.0 3.0 Nil At end of year 33.4 446.3 132.1 611.8 Net book value at beginning of year 208.1 548.1 40.0 796.2 Net book value at end of year 250.4 612.7 61.2 924.3 Included in the above net book value at end of year are: Assets on hire purchase Nil 224.1 Nil 224.1 Leased passenger service vehicles Nil 64.2 Nil 64.2 Short leasehold land and buildings 29.8 Nil Nil 29.8 Long leasehold land and buildings 57.5 Nil Nil 57.5 Year ended 30 April 2010 Land and Passenger Other plant buildings service vehicles and equipment Total m m m m Cost At beginning of year 226.5 968.4 154.2 1,349.1 Additions 11.2 94.5 51.0 156.7 Acquired through business combinations 0.4 0.7 Nil 1.1 Disposals 5.2 53.9 52.4 111.5 Foreign exchange movements 0.5 0.3 0.5 0.3 Transferred from assets held for sale 4.8 Nil Nil 4.8 Reclassifications Nil 8.3 8.3 Nil At end of year 237.2 1,001.7 161.6 1,400.5 Depreciation At beginning of year 21.3 444.4 97.7 563.4 Depreciation charged to income statement 5.9 64.4 6.9 77.2 Impairment charged to income statement Nil Nil 14.7 14.7 Disposals 0.6 47.5 4.7 52.8 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 1.2 0.5 0.6 Transferred from assets held for sale 2.4 Nil Nil 2.4 Reclassifications Nil 6.5 6.5 Nil At end of year 29.1 453.6 121.6 604.3 Net book value at beginning of year 205.2 524.0 56.5 785.7 Net book value at end of year 208.1 548.1 40.0 796.2 Included in the above net book value at end of year are: Assets on hire purchase Nil 238.5 Nil 238.5 Leased passenger service vehicles Nil 78.5 Nil 78.5 Short leasehold land and buildings 27.1 Nil Nil 27.1 Long leasehold land and buildings 26.3 Nil Nil 26.3 During the year ended 30 April 2010, we reached agreement with the DfT on a commercial settlement in favour of South Western Trains in respect of certain elements of the smartcard project which had been subject to delay.
In light of elements of the smartcard project not being delivered on time we reviewed the carrying value of plant and equipment held in relation to the smartcard project and recorded a 14.7m impairment charge.
Heritable and freehold land amounting to 94.3m 2010: 91.4m has not been depreciated.
Depreciation of 31.3m 2010: 31.2m has been charged in the year in respect of assets held under hire purchase or finance lease agreements.
Included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment is 27.2m 2010: 10.2m in respect of assets under construction that the Group expects to be sold to Network Rail following the completion of each assets construction.
page 66 | Stagecoach Group plc Nominal value Number of of share capital Country of shares in issue in issue at % interest incorporation at 30 April 2011 30 April 2011 held 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 67 Note 14 Interests in joint ventures The principal joint ventures are: Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited United Kingdom 34,780 3,478 49% Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited United Kingdom 1,643,312 1,643,312 35% New York Splash Tours LLC USA n a n a 50% Twin America LLC USA n a n a 60% The Group has four joint ventures: Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited Citylink, New York Splash Tours LLC and Twin America LLC.
Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited is the holding company of Virgin Rail Group Limited, which in turn is the holding company of West Coast Trains Limited.
The Virgin Rail Group Holdings shareholders agreement provides for joint decision making on key matters and equal representation on the Board.
As a consequence, the investment has been accounted for as a joint venture.
The Citylink shareholder agreement provides for joint and unanimous decision making on all key matters and therefore the investment has been accounted for as a joint venture.
In North America, Stagecoach has two joint ventures, New York Splash Tours LLC, with Port Imperial Duck Charters LLC and Twin America LLC, with CitySights NY.
New York Splash Tours LLC currently has no share capital but is governed by a joint venture agreement.
Stagecoach began operating Twin America LLC, a joint venture with CitySights NY, on 31 March 2009.
In return for transferring certain assets to the joint venture, the Group holds 60% of the economic rights and 50% of the voting rights.
Twin America LLC has no share capital and is governed by a joint venture agreement, which provdes for joint decision making on key matters.
The Directors undertook an impairment review as at 30 April 2011 of the carrying value of the Groups joint venture interests and concluded that there had been no impairment loss.
The movements in the carrying values were as follows: Virgin Rail Twin Total Total Group Citylink America LLC 2011 2010 m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 55.8 3.4 45.7 104.9 111.8 Share of recognised profit 28.4 1.8 9.3 39.5 28.9 Share of actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax 0.5 Nil Nil 0.5 0.1 Share of net fair value losses gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 0.1 Nil Nil 0.1 1.3 Dividends received in cash 17.1 1.3 10.4 28.8 35.7 Foreign exchange movements Nil Nil 3.6 3.6 1.5 At end of year 66.5 3.9 41.0 111.4 104.9 Amounts written off At beginning of year 48.2 Nil Nil 48.2 43.1 Goodwill charged to income statement 5.1 Nil Nil 5.1 5.1 At end of year 53.3 Nil Nil 53.3 48.2 Net book value at beginning of year 7.6 3.4 45.7 56.7 68.7 Net book value at end of year 13.2 3.9 41.0 58.1 56.7 In addition to the above interests in joint ventures, a loan receivable from New York Splash Tours LLC of 2.8m 2010: 3.1m is reflected in note 20.
New York Splash Tours LLC has net liabilities as at 30 April 2011 of 3.5m 2010: 3.8m.
The Group has not recognised its share of the net liabilities but has assessed the loan receivable for impairment and a provision for impairment of 2.8m 2010: 3.1m has been held against the receivable.
A loan payable to Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited of 1.7m 2010: 1.7m is reflected in note 22.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 67 2011 2010 m m 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 14 Interests in joint ventures continued The Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures is analysed below: Virgin Rail Twin Total Total Group Citylink America LLC 2011 2010 m m m m m Non-current assets 3.8 0.1 13.4 17.3 18.5 Current assets 89.6 3.3 6.3 99.2 95.8 Current liabilities 84.4 2.1 5.8 92.3 99.0 Share of net assets 9.0 1.3 13.9 24.2 15.3 Goodwill 4.2 2.6 27.1 33.9 41.4 13.2 3.9 41.0 58.1 56.7 The Groups share of post-tax results from joint ventures is analysed below: Virgin Rail Twin Total Total Group Citylink America LLC 2011 2010 m m m m m Revenue 392.7 11.4 43.3 447.4 405.5 Expenses 353.2 8.9 33.6 395.7 370.3 Operating profit 39.5 2.5 9.7 51.7 35.2 Finance income net 0.2 Nil Nil 0.2 0.2 Taxation 11.3 0.7 0.4 12.4 7.4 Share of joint ventures profit after taxation 28.4 1.8 9.3 39.5 28.0 A net actuarial loss after taxation of 0.5m 2010: gain of 0.1m was recognised in addition to the above in relation to Virgin Rail Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
A net loss after taxation of 0.1m 2010: gain of 1.3m was recognised in addition to the above in relation to fair value gains on fuel derivative contracts held by Virgin Rail Group.
"Note 15 Available for sale and other investments The movements in available for sale and other investments were as follows: Cost valuation At beginning of year 3.7 3.3 Additions 0.4 0.6 Disposals 1.8 Nil Net fair value losses Nil 0.2 Foreign exchange movements 0.2 Nil At end of year 2.1 3.7 Amounts written off At end of year 1.8 1.8 Disposals 1.8 Nil At end of year Nil 1.8 Net book value at beginning of year 1.9 1.5 Net book value at end of year 2.1 1.9 Note 16 Business combinations i East London Bus On 14 October 2010, Stagecoach Bus Holdings Limited ""SBHL"", a Group subsidiary, completed the acquisition of the bus business formerly owned by East London Bus Group Limited in administration."
SBHL acquired 100% of the voting equity interests in four companies that together operate the acquired business.
The acquired business is the third largest bus operator in the London market, and has an estimated 15% share of that market.
99% of its revenue is from Transport for London.
The business operates bus services under contract to Transport for London whereby it receives a fixed fee subject to adjustment for certain inflation indices for operating the services and takes the cost and capital risk.
The cash paid in respect of the acquisition was 59.5m, comprising 5.4m for the entire share capital of the acquired companies and 54.1m to settle inter-company liabilities payable by the acquired companies to their former parent company.
The consideration payable was calculated on the basis that the acquired business had aggregate cash balances of approximately 6.7m at close of business on the day prior to completion, giving a transaction enterprise value of 52.8m.
The consideration was fully paid in cash and there is no contingent consideration.
The aggregate cash balances at acquisition were 3.5m, with the movement of 3.2m reflecting net payments on the day of acquisition.
These payments were in line with the Groups expectations.
page 68 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 69 Note 16 Business combinations continued i East London Bus continued Goodwill of 3.6m arose on the acquisition of the East London bus business and represents: the benefits that the Group expects to obtain from synergies with its other businesses: the benefits that the Group expects to obtain from applying its own management expertise to improve the operational and financial performance of the acquired business: the value of the assembled workforce of the East London bus business and: the value of the arrangements with Transport for London, over and above the existing contracts for particular bus services, but which cannot be reliably valued as a separate asset.
None of the goodwill arising from the acquisition is deductible for tax purposes.
The revenue and loss of the acquired business recognised in the consolidated income statement for the period from the acquisition date of 14 October 2010 to 30 April 2011 is shown in note 2.
The consolidated revenue for the period of the Group for the year ended 30 April 2011 would have been 2,503.3m had the acquisition occurred on 1 May 2010.
The equivalent consolidated profit for the period would not have been materially different from the actual reported profit.
The assets and liabilities acquired were as follows: Initial Restatement Fair value book to fair to the value value Group m m m Intangible assets Customer contracts Nil 17.8 17.8 Property, plant and equipments Land and buildings 46.7 7.0 39.7 Passenger service vehicles 63.2 22.2 41.0 Other plant and equipment 2.2 0.7 1.5 Retirement benefit asset 7.8 Nil 7.8 Deferred tax liability asset 0.8 14.8 14.0 Inventory 0.8 Nil 0.8 Cash 3.5 Nil 3.5 Trade and other receivables 15.1 Nil 15.1 Trade and other payables 27.7 0.2 27.9 Intercompany payables 54.1 Nil 54.1 Provisions Insurance provisions 14.5 3.1 17.6 Environmental provisions 0.3 Nil 0.3 Acquired customer contracts Nil 39.5 39.5 Net assets liabilities acquired, excluding goodwill 41.9 40.1 1.8 Goodwill arising on acquisition Nil 3.6 3.6 Total consideration settled in cash 41.9 36.5 5.4 There are no material receivables that are considered to be uncollectable as at the date of acquisition.
ii Other business combinations One business acquisition has been made by our UK Bus regional operations division during the year ended 30 April 2011.
0.1m was paid to acquire the assets and goodwill of a small bus business.
iii Effect on consolidated net debt and goodwill The effect of the above acquisitions on consolidated net debt was: 2011 2010 m m Fair value to Group Intangible fixed assets excluding goodwill 17.8 0.5 Property, plant and equipment 82.2 1.1 Other net liabilities 98.2 1.8 Net assets liabilities acquired, excluding goodwill 1.8 0.2 Goodwill arising on acquisition 3.7 1.7 Consideration 5.5 1.5 Costs of acquisitions in year 0.6 0.1 Add: deferred consideration paid in respect of businesses acquired in prior years 0.3 0.6 Intercompany debt assumed and re-financed 54.1 Nil Net cash and cash equivalents acquired including overdrafts 3.5 0.3 Net cash outflow 57.0 2.5 Stagecoach Group plc | page 69 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 17 Disposals Exceptional gains of 18.5m 2010: 3.9m for the year ended 30 April 2011 have been included in the consolidated income statement as the results of discontinued operations.
These gains arose from the release of liabilities that were previously recorded for amounts potentially owing which are now no longer payable in respect of disposed businesses.
In respect of the businesses disposed of, the consideration, net assets disposed and profit on disposal for the year ended 30 April 2011, were as follows: 2009 2009 2011 2010 m m Net assets disposed 5.3 3.5 Loss on disposal 19.9 3.3 3.2 il 3.2 Net consideration receivable Nil 1.7 2.1 0.3 Deferred consideration in respect of businesses disposed of in current year 0.8 0.9 Nil Deferred consideration received in year in respect of businesses disposed of in prior years 0.8 Nil 1.3 Net cash inflow Nil 3.6 1.2 1.6 Note 18 Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings ordinary shares 100% owned except where shown as at 30 April 2011 were: Country of registration or Company incorporation Principal activity Stagecoach Transport Holdings plc Scotland Holding company SCOTO Limited England Holding company SCUSI Limited England Holding company Stagecoach Bus Holdings Limited Scotland Holding company The Integrated Transport Company Limited Scotland Holding company Stagecoach South Limited England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach North West Limited England Bus and coach operator East Midland Motor Services Limited England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach Scotland Limited Scotland Bus and coach operator East Kent Road Car Company Limited England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach West Limited England Bus and coach operator Busways Travel Services Limited England Bus and coach operator Cleveland Transit Ltd England Bus and coach operator Cambus Limited England Bus and coach operator Greater Manchester Buses South Limited England Bus and coach operator Highland Country Buses Limited Scotland Bus and coach operator Orkney Coaches Limited Scotland Bus and coach operator Eastbourne Buses Limited England Bus and coach operator The Yorkshire Traction Group Limited England Bus and coach operator East London Bus & Coach Company Limited England Bus operator South East London & Kent Bus Company Limited England Bus operator East London Bus Group Property Investments Limited England Property company Stagecoach Services Limited England Provision of accounting and payroll services National Transport Tokens Limited 99.9% England Transport tokens PSV Claims Bureau Limited England Claims handling Stagecoach South Western Trains Limited England Train operating company East Midlands Trains Limited England Train operating company Trentway-Wager Inc Canada Bus and coach operator All companies operate in the countries shown above and, except for Stagecoach Transport Holdings plc, are indirectly held.
The Group considers that principal subsidiaries includes any subsidiary that has revenue greater than 25.0m per annum, profit before interest and taxation greater than 2.5m per annum, gross assets greater than 25.0m or gross liabilities greater than 25.0m.
These thresholds exclude any intercompany amounts and investments in subsidiaries.
A complete list of subsidiary undertakings is available on request to the company and will be filed with the next Annual Return.
page 70 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 71 Note 19 Inventories Inventories were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Parts and consumables 26.6 24.1 All inventories are carried at cost less a provision to take account of slow moving and obsolete items.
Changes in the provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories were as follows: 2011 2010 m m At beginning of year 1.6 1.8 Charged to income statement 0.4 0.2 Amount released to income statement, not used Nil 0.1 Amount utilised 0.3 0.3 At end of year 1.7 1.6 There was no material write down of inventories during the current or prior years.
The Group is party to consignment stock arrangements and as at 30 April 2011, the Group physically held consignment stock of a value amounting to 0.7m 2010: 0.7m in addition to the amounts disclosed above.
Note 20 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 Trade and other receivables were as follows: m m Non-current: Loan to joint venture 2.8 3.1 Less: provision for impairment 2.8 3.1 Nil Nil Prepayments 19.2 17.2 Other receivables 0.2 0.4 19.4 17.6 Current: Trade receivables 115.0 128.8 Less: provision for impairment 1.9 4.5 Trade receivables net 113.1 124.3 Other receivables 23.6 12.4 Prepayments 29.3 25.5 Accrued income 31.1 21.7 VAT and other government receivables 24.4 16.4 221.5 200.3 A loan of US$4.7m 2010: US$4.7m to New York Splash Tours LLC is outstanding at 30 April 2011.
The loan is interest bearing at 7% per annum and is repayable by instalments.
The loan outstanding as at 30 April 2011, translated at year end rates was 2.8m 2010: 3.1m and is included in noncurrent trade and other receivables.
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables was as follows: 2011 2010 m m At beginning of year 4.5 4.3 Impairment losses in year charged to income statement 0.8 1.8 Reversal of impairment losses credited to income statement 0.3 0.5 Amounts utilised 3.1 1.0 Foreign exchange movements Nil 0.1 At end of year 1.9 4.5 Further information on credit risk is provided in note 27.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 71 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 358.3 375.7 The cash amounts shown above include 25.0m on 12 month deposit maturing by March 2012, 52.0m on 3 month deposit maturing by May 2011, 65.0m on 3 month deposit maturing by June 2011, and 35.0m deposited on 30 day notice accounts 2010: 169.0m on 3 month deposit maturing by June 2010, 32.0m deposited on 30 day notice accounts and 10.4m deposited in a 7 day notice account.
The remaining amounts are accessible to the Group within one day 2010: one day.
The Group has a bank offset arrangement whereby the Company and several of its subsidiaries each have bank accounts with the same bank, which are subject to rights of offset.
The cash at bank and in hand of 358.3m 2010: 375.7m above included the net balance on these offset accounts of 24.2m 2010: 13.7m, which comprised 844.5m 2010: 702.2m of positive bank balances less 820.3m 2010: 688.5m of bank overdrafts.
Note 22 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Current Trade payables 134.6 124.6 Accruals 270.1 300.2 Deferred income 94.1 74.2 Cash-settled share based payment liability 0.5 0.4 Deferred grant income 1.4 4.0 Loans from joint ventures 1.7 1.7 PAYE and NIC payable 23.0 18.1 VAT and other government payables 4.2 1.4 529.6 524.6 Non-current Accruals 13.9 11.1 Deferred grant income 7.3 7.3 Cash-settled share based payment liability 2.0 0.4 PAYE and NIC payable 0.6 0.4 VAT and other government payables Nil 0.4 Other payables 0.5 0.8 24.3 20.4 Note 23 Borrowings The carrying value of borrowings was as follows: 2011 2010 m m Current Loan notes 21.1 26.2 Hire purchase and lease obligations 38.8 21.3 Redeemable B preference shares 2.6 3.3 62.5 50.8 Non-current Sterling 5.75% Notes 410.2 406.9 Hire purchase and lease obligations 181.9 219.2 592.1 626.1 Total borrowings 654.6 676.9 page 72 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 73 Note 23 Borrowings continued The minimum lease payments under hire purchase and lease obligations fall due as follows: 2011 2010 m m Not later than one year 43.6 26.0 Later than one year but not more than five years 142.7 152.3 More than five years 49.9 78.6 236.2 256.9 Future finance costs on hire purchase and finance leases 15.5 16.4 Carrying value of hire purchase and finance lease liabilities 220.7 240.5 For variable-rate hire purchase arrangements, the future finance costs included in the above table are based on the interest rates applying at the balance sheet date.
The Group in its ordinary course of business enters into hire purchase and finance lease agreements to fund or refinance the purchase of vehicles.
All of the hire purchase and lease obligations shown above are in respect of vehicles.
The lease agreements are typically for periods of 5 to 10 years and do not have contingent rent or escalation clauses.
The agreements have industry standard terms and do not contain any restrictions on dividends, additional debt or further leasing.
a Sterling 5.75% Notes On 16 December 2009, the Group issued 400m of 5.75% Notes due in 2016.
Interest on the Notes is paid annually in arrears and all remaining Notes will be redeemed at their principal amount on 16 December 2016.
The Notes were issued at 99.599% of their principal amount.
The consolidated carrying value of the Notes at 30 April 2011 was 410.2m 2010: 406.9m after taking account of the discount on issue, issue costs and the fair value of interest rate swaps used to manage the interest rate profile of the Notes.
b Repayment profile 2011 2010 Borrowings are repayable as follows: m m On demand or within 1 year Loan notes 21.1 26.2 Hire purchase and lease obligations 38.8 21.3 Redeemable B preference shares 2.6 3.3 62.5 50.8 Within 1-2 years Hire purchase and lease obligations 33.7 38.4 Within 2-5 years Hire purchase and lease obligations 98.8 102.8 Over 5 years Hire purchase and lease obligations 49.4 78.0 Sterling 5.75% Notes 410.2 406.9 459.6 484.9 Total borrowings 654.6 676.9 Less current maturities 62.5 50.8 Non-current portion of borrowings 592.1 626.1 Interest terms on UK hire purchase and lease obligations are at annual rates between 0.40% and 2.00% over bank base rate or equivalent LIBOR rates, subject to certain minimum rates.
Interest terms on overseas lease obligations are at fixed rates, which at 30 April 2011 average 4.3% per annum.
Interest on loan notes are at three months LIBOR.
Loan notes amounting to 21.1m 2010: 26.2m are backed by guarantees provided under Group banking facilities.
The loan notes have been classified by reference to the earliest date on which the loan note holders can request redemptions.
UK bank loans and Sterling Notes are unsecured.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 73 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 24 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Net The Group movement in deferred tax during the year was as follows: liabilities asset m m m Beginning of year 19.2 1.3 17.9 Charged to income statement 9.5 1.3 10.8 Acquired through business combinations 14.0 Nil 14.0 Charged to equity 32.6 Nil 32.6 Foreign exchange movements 0.5 Nil 0.5 End of year 46.8 Nil 46.8 The deferred tax liabilities after more than one year are 47.3m 2010: 19.2m.
The deferred tax asset due after more than one year is Nil 2010: 1.3m which was recognised in respect of tax losses.
2011 2010 Deferred taxation is calculated as follows: m m Accelerated capital allowances 99.1 100.9 Pension temporary differences 25.2 56.6 Short-term temporary differences 27.1 26.4 46.8 17.9 The amount of deferred tax recognised in the income statement by type of temporary difference is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Accelerated capital allowances 4.9 1.8 Pension temporary differences 4.8 5.1 Short-term temporary differences 1.1 10.7 10.8 14.0 Note 25 Provisions The movements in provisions were as follows: Token redemption Insurance Environmental Redundancy Acquired provision provisions provisions provision customer contracts Total m m m m m m Beginning of year 14.8 115.2 3.6 1.8 0.2 135.6 Provided during year after discounting Nil 54.8 Nil 1.2 Nil 56.0 Unwinding of discount Nil 3.8 Nil Nil 0.1 3.9 Utilised in the year Nil 58.0 0.7 1.3 3.4 63.4 Acquired through business combinations Nil 17.6 0.3 Nil 39.5 57.4 Arising on sale of tokens during year 1.4 Nil Nil Nil Nil 1.4 Redemption of tokens 4.1 Nil Nil Nil Nil 4.1 Foreign exchange movements Nil 3.1 0.2 Nil Nil 3.3 End of year 12.1 130.3 3.0 1.7 36.4 183.5 30 April 2011: Current 4.1 41.9 0.5 1.7 8.7 56.9 Non-current 8.0 88.4 2.5 Nil 27.7 126.6 12.1 130.3 3.0 1.7 36.4 183.5 30 April 2010: Current 4.5 39.0 1.2 1.8 0.1 46.6 Non-current 10.3 76.2 2.4 Nil 0.1 89.0 14.8 115.2 3.6 1.8 0.2 135.6 The token redemption provision relates to tokens issued to third parties to be redeemed as payment for transportation services.
Tokens are typically redeemed within three years of issue.
The insurance provisions relate to insurance reserves on incurred accidents up to 30 April in each year where claims have not been settled.
These are based on actuarial reviews and prior claims history.
Claims are typically settled within five years of origination.
The environmental provisions relate to legal or constructive obligations to undertake environmental work, such as an obligation to rectify land which has been contaminated by fuel or to eliminate the presence of asbestos.
The provision is based on the estimated cost of undertaking the work required, and is expected to be fully utilised over the next three years.
The redundancy provision relates to planned redundancies and is expected to be utilised within one year.
Provisions for acquired customer contracts relate to contracts that have been acquired through business combinations that have been identified as being on unfavourable terms at the relevant requisition date and the provisions are expected to be fully utilised within five years.
page 74 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 75 Note 26 Retirement benefits The Group contributes to a number of pension schemes.
The principal defined benefit occupational schemes are as follows: Date as at which last scheme valuation was prepared Stagecoach Pension Schemes SPS comprising the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme and the East London Bus Group Pension Scheme: 30 April 2008, 5 April 2010 The South West Trains section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : 30 December 2007 The Island Line section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : 30 December 2007 The East Midlands Trains section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : and 30 December 2007 A number of UK Local Government Pension Schemes LGPS.
5 April 2010 The Directors believe that separate consideration should be given to RPS as the Group has no rights or obligations in respect of sections of the scheme following expiry of the related franchises.
In addition, under the terms of RPS, any fund deficit or surplus is shared by the employer 60% and the employees 40% in accordance with the shared cost nature of RPS.
The employees share of the deficit or surplus is reflected as an adjustment to the RPS liabilities or assets.
Therefore the liability or asset recognised for the relevant sections of RPS reflects that part of the net deficit or surplus of each section that the employer is obliged to fund or expected to recover over the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
The franchise adjustment is the portion of the deficit or surplus that is expected to exist at the end of the franchise and for which the Group will not be obliged to fund or entitled to recover.
In addition, the Group contributes to a number of defined contribution DC schemes, covering UK and non-UK employees.
The consolidated balance sheet shows retirement benefit assets of 23.7m 2010: Nil and retirement benefit obligations of 120.8m 2010: 202.1m.
The net liability of 97.1m 2010: 202.1m is analysed below.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet were as follows: Funded plans As at 30 April 2011 SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m Equities 653.6 474.4 179.7 0.3 Nil 1,308.0 Bonds 235.8 99.3 39.3 0.6 Nil 375.0 Cash 71.4 3.1 35.4 0.4 Nil 110.3 Property 66.9 94.1 15.9 Nil Nil 176.9 Fair value of plan assets 1,027.7 670.9 270.3 1.3 Nil 1,970.2 Present value of obligations gross liabilities 1,041.0 913.6 282.9 4.5 4.2 2,246.2 adjustment for members share of RPS deficit 40% Nil 97.1 Nil Nil Nil 97.1 franchise adjustment Nil 99.2 Nil Nil Nil 99.2 Present value of obligations 1,041.0 717.3 282.9 4.5 4.2 2,049.9 Irrecoverable surplus 8.2 Nil 9.2 Nil Nil 17.4 Liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 21.5 46.4 21.8 3.2 4.2 97.1 As at 30 April 2010 Funded plans SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m Equities 521.1 424.8 178.0 0.2 Nil 1,124.1 Bonds 125.7 88.9 56.2 0.6 Nil 271.4 Cash 46.0 2.8 16.3 0.4 Nil 65.5 Property 25.9 84.2 19.4 Nil Nil 129.5 Fair value of plan assets 718.7 600.7 269.9 1.2 Nil 1,590.5 Present value of obligations gross liabilities 814.8 850.2 329.5 4.1 4.6 2,003.2 adjustment for members share of RPS deficit 40% Nil 99.8 Nil Nil Nil 99.8 franchise adjustment Nil 110.8 Nil Nil Nil 110.8 814.8 639.6 329.5 4.1 4.6 1,792.6 Liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 96.1 38.9 59.6 2.9 4.6 202.1 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2011 2010 % % Equities 66.4 70.7 Bonds 19.0 17.1 Cash 5.6 4.1 Property 9.0 8.1 100.0 100.0 Stagecoach Group plc | page 75 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: Year ended 30 April 2011 Funded plans Unfunded SPS RPS LGPS Other Total and DC plans m m m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost 24.9 28.1 1.9 1.0 Nil 55.9 Interest cost 51.3 29.3 16.5 0.2 Nil 97.3 Expected return on plan assets 62.0 28.2 19.2 0.1 Nil 109.5 Unwinding of franchise adjustment Nil 6.3 Nil Nil Nil 6.3 Total defined benefit costs 14.2 22.9 0.8 1.1 Nil 37.4 Defined contribution costs Nil Nil Nil Nil 4.8 4.8 Total included in staff costs 14.2 22.9 0.8 1.1 4.8 42.2 The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 30 April 2011 was 145.6m.
Year ended 30 April 2010 Funded plans Unfunded SPS RPS LGPS Other Total and DC plans m m m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost 19.3 20.6 1.7 0.6 Nil 42.2 Curtailments Nil 0.7 Nil Nil Nil 0.7 Interest cost 40.3 23.5 16.8 0.2 Nil 80.8 Expected return on plan assets 42.0 21.9 16.0 0.1 Nil 80.0 Unwinding of franchise adjustment Nil 2.7 Nil Nil Nil 2.7 Total defined benefit costs 17.6 18.8 2.5 0.7 Nil 39.6 Defined contribution costs Nil Nil Nil Nil 5.2 5.2 Total included in staff costs 17.6 18.8 2.5 0.7 5.2 44.8 The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 30 April 2010 was 326.9m.
page 76 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 77 Note 26 Retirement benefits continued The movements in the net liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans for the year ended 30 April 2011 were as follows: Funded plans SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total Year ended 30 April 2011 plans m m m m m m At beginning of year liability 96.1 38.9 59.6 2.9 4.6 202.1 Total expense 4.8 9.8 14.2 22.9 0.8 1.1 Nil 37.4 Actuarial gains losses 13.0 7.5 53.8 10.7 32.7 0.6 0.1 76.5 Employers contributions and settlements 30.0 3.3 27.2 26.1 4.2 Nil 0.3 57.8 Acquisitions 30.0 3.3 7.8 Nil Nil Nil Nil 7.8 Disposals 30.0 3.3 Nil Nil 0.1 Nil Nil 0.1 Foreign exchange movements 18.3 17.9 Nil Nil Nil 0.2 Nil 0.2 At end of year liability 27.3 19.5 21.5 46.4 21.8 3.2 4.2 97.1 The movements in the net liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans for the year ended 30 April 2010 were as follows: Funded plans Year ended 30 April 2010 SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m At beginning of year liability 11.6 28.2 33.9 2.5 4.4 80.6 Total expense 4.8 9.8 17.6 18.8 2.5 0.7 Nil 39.6 Actuarial losses gains 13.0 7.5 94.5 16.7 27.3 0.3 0.5 138.7 Employers contributions and settlements 18.3 17.9 27.6 24.8 4.1 Nil 0.3 56.8 At end of year liability 27.3 19.5 96.1 38.9 59.6 2.9 4.6 202.1 The movements in the present value of obligations recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans for the year ended 30 April 2011 were as follows: At beginning of year 1,792.6 1,339.0 Current service cost 55.9 42.2 Interest cost 97.3 80.8 Unwinding of franchise adjustment 6.3 2.7 Members contributions paid 10.9 8.7 Actuarial gains losses 57.8 385.6 Benefits paid 65.5 60.0 Curtailments Nil 0.7 Acquisitions 236.2 Nil Disposals 13.3 Nil Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.3 At end of year 2,049.9 1,792.6 Movements in the total fair value of plan assets were as follows: 2011 2010 m m At beginning of year 1,590.5 1,258.4 Expected return on scheme assets 109.5 80.0 Actuarial gains 36.1 246.9 Other employers contributions and settlements 57.8 56.8 Members contributions paid 10.9 8.7 Benefits paid 65.5 60.0 Acquisitions 244.0 Nil Disposals 13.2 Nil Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.3 At end of year 1,970.2 1,590.5 Stagecoach Group plc | page 77 2011 2010 m m 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Actual return less expected return on plan assets 36.1 246.9 Experience adjustment, arising on scheme liabilities 23.1 42.3 Adjustment for unrecognised surplus 17.4 Nil Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the liabilities 98.8 497.3 Franchise adjustment 17.9 69.4 Total actuarial gain loss recognised 76.5 138.7 The history of experience adjustments is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: Experience adjustments m 23.1 42.3 59.7 28.6 18.1 Scheme liabilities m 2,049.9 1,792.6 1,339.0 1,432.1 1,325.0 Percentage of scheme liabilities % 1.1% 2.4 % 4.5 % 2.0% 1.4% Experience adjustments on plan assets: Experience adjustments m 36.1 246.9 334.2 141.7 55.2 Plan assets m 1,970.2 1,590.5 1,258.4 1,474.6 1,290.2 Percentage of scheme assets % 1.8% 15.5% 26.6 % 9.6 % 4.3% The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses on Group defined benefit schemes recognised in the statement of comprehensive income since 1 May 2004 is a 159.7m loss 2010: 236.2m loss.
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid by the Group to the schemes during the financial year ending 30 April 2012 is 68.1m estimated at 30 April 2010 for year ended 30 April 2011: 62.1m.
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2011 2010 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries SPS 3.4% 3.4% Rate of increase in pensionable salaries other defined benefit schemes 4.3% 4.4% Rate of increase of pensions in payment SPS 3.3% 3.4% other defined benefit schemes 2.5% 2.4%-3.3% Discount rate 5.6% 5.7% RPI Inflation 3.3% 3.4% CPI Inflation 2.3% n a Expected long-term rates of return as at 30 April were: Equities 8.3% 8.3% Bonds 5.0% 5.0% Cash 4.4% 4.7% Property 7.5% 7.5% includes private equity The expected return on plan assets is based on expectations at the beginning of the period for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
The expected returns are set in conjunction with external advisors and take account of market factors, fund managers views and targets for future returns and where appropriate, historical returns.
The life expectancy assumptions used for each scheme are periodically reviewed.
The weighted average life expectancies assumed as at 30 April 2011 were: 2011 2010 years years Current pensioners aged 65 male 19.6 19.5 Current pensioners aged 65 female 23.9 23.8 Future pensioners at age 65 aged 45 now male 21.9 21.8 Future pensioners at age 65 aged 45 now female 26.0 25.9 Note 27 Financial instruments a Overview This note provides details of the Groups financial instruments.
Except where otherwise stated, the disclosures provided in this note exclude: Interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures accounted for in accordance with International Accounting Standard 27 IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and International Accounting Standard 31 IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations.
Financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share based payment transactions.
Liabilities or assets that are not contractual such as income taxes that are created as a result of statutory requirements imposed by governments, prepayments, provisions and deferred income are not financial liabilities or financial assets.
Accordingly, prepayments, provisions, deferred income and amounts payable or receivable in respect of corporation tax, sales tax including UK Value Added Tax, payroll tax and other taxes are excluded from the disclosures provided in this note.
page 78 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 79 Note 27 Financial instruments continued b Carrying values of financial assets and financial liabilities The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and their respective fair values were: 2011 2010 2011 2010 Other balance Carrying value Carrying value Fair value Fair value sheet notes m m m m Financial assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Nil Nil Nil Nil Held-to-maturity investments Nil Nil Nil Nil Loans and receivables Non-current assets Other receivables 20 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.4 Current assets Accrued income 20 31.1 21.7 31.1 21.7 Trade receivables, net of impairment 20 113.1 124.3 113.1 124.3 Other receivables 20 23.6 12.4 23.6 12.4 Cash and cash equivalents 21 358.3 375.7 358.3 375.7 Available for sale financial assets Non-current assets Available for sale and other investments 15 2.1 1.9 2.1 1.9 Total financial assets 528.4 536.4 528.4 536.4 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Nil Nil Nil Nil Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Non-current liabilities Accruals 22 13.9 11.1 13.9 11.1 Other payables 22 0.5 0.8 0.5 0.8 Borrowings 23 592.1 626.1 605.1 640.7 Current liabilities Trade payables 22 134.6 124.6 134.6 124.6 Accruals 22 270.1 300.2 270.1 300.2 Loans from joint ventures 22 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 Borrowings 23 62.5 50.8 62.5 50.8 Total financial liabilities 1,075.4 1,115.3 1,088.4 1,129.9 Net financial liabilities 547.0 578.9 560.0 593.5 Derivatives that are designated as effective hedging instruments are not shown in the above table.
Information on the carrying value of such derivatives is provided in note 27 j.
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities shown above are determined as follows: The carrying value of loans to joint ventures, accrued income, trade receivables and other receivables is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Given the short average time to maturity, no specific assumptions on discount rates have been made.
The effect of credit losses not already reflected in the carrying value as impairment losses is assumed to be immaterial.
2.1m 2010: 1.9m of available for sale financial assets for which market prices are not available are measured at cost because their fair value cannot be measured reliably the fair value of these assets is shown in the above table as being equal to their carrying value.
The carrying value of trade payables, other payables, accruals and loans from joint ventures is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Given the relatively short average time to maturity, no specific assumptions on discount rates have been made.
The fair value of fixed-rate notes included in borrowings that are quoted on a recognised stock exchange is determined with reference to the bid price as at the balance sheet date.
The carrying value of fixed rate hire purchase and finance lease liabilities included in borrowings is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value taking account of the amounts involved in the context of total financial liabilities and the fixed interest rates relative to market interest rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of other borrowings on which interest is payable at floating rates is not considered to be materially different from the carrying value.
We do not consider that the fair value of financial instruments would change materially from that shown above as a result of any reasonable change to the assumptions made in determining the fair values shown above.
The fair value of financial instruments, and in particular the fixed rate notes, would be affected by changes in market interest rates.
We estimate that a 100 basis points reduction in market interest rates would increase the fair value of the fixed-rate notes liability by around 20.1m 2010: 23.3m.
At 30 April 2011, this increase would be partly offset by a movement of 5.0m 2010: 8.5m in the fair value of the Groups interest rate derivatives see note 27 j, which are fair value hedges of a portion of the fixed-rate notes.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 79 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27 Financial instruments continued b Carrying values of financial assets and financial liabilities continued Fair value estimation Financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value are disclosed by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level.
Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
Level 0 Inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value within the hierarchy at 30 April 2011.
Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets Derivatives used for hedging 27 j Nil 71.5 Nil 71.5 Available for sale financial assets Equity securities Nil Nil 2.1 2.1 Total assets Nil 71.5 2.1 73.6 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging 27 j Nil 0.2 Nil 0.2 Total liabilities Nil 0.2 Nil 0.2 The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value within the hierarchy at 30 April 2010.
Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets Derivatives used for hedging 27 j Nil 31.2 Nil 31.2 Available for sale financial assets Equity securities Nil Nil 1.9 1.9 Total assets Nil 31.2 1.9 33.1 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging 27 j Nil 11.3 Nil 11.3 Total liabilities Nil 11.3 Nil 11.3 The following table presents the changes in Level 3 financial assets for the year: 2011 2010 m m At beginning of year 1.9 1.3 Foreign exchange movements 0.2 Nil Purchases 0.4 0.6 At end of year 2.1 1.9 The Level 3 financial assets of 2.1m 2010: 1.9m shown above represent investments in securities that do not trade on a recognised market, such as investments in unlisted companies.
These assets have been valued by management taking account of the cost of the assets and the valuation of similar assets.
The value of the assets is not material to the Group and therefore changes in unobservable inputs to the valuations would not have a material effect on the financial statements.
c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments The Groups use of financial instruments exposes it to a variety of financial risks, principally: Market risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk: Credit risk: and Liquidity risk.
This note c presents qualitative information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, including the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk: there have been no significant changes to these matters during the year ended 30 April 2011.
This note c also provides summary quantitative data about the Groups exposure to each risk.
In addition, information on the Groups management of capital is provided in section 3.8.
15 of the Operating and Financial Review.
The Groups overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the likelihood and or magnitude of adverse effects on the financial performance and financial position of the Group.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not generally hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
A Group Treasury Committee and central treasury department Group Treasury oversee financial risk management in the context of policies approved by the Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
Group Treasury is responsible for the execution of derivative financial instruments to manage financial risks.
Certain financial risk management activities for example, the management of credit risk arising from trade and other receivables are devolved to the management of individual business units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investing excess liquidity.
page 80 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 81 Note 27 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices and commodity prices will affect the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
The objective of the Groups management of market risk is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters.
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments in the ordinary course of business, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks.
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board.
Generally the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to reduce volatility in the consolidated income statement.
Foreign currency translation risk Foreign currency translation risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument including overseas net investments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency translation risk principally as a result of net investments in foreign operations and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group has overseas investments in Canada and the USA.
To reduce balance sheet translation exposure, the Group partially hedges the sterling carrying value of overseas operations through borrowings denominated in their functional currency or, where appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Gains and losses arising from hedging instruments that provide a hedge against foreign net investments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
On 18 December 2009, the Group entered into foreign currency derivative contracts with a notional value of US$160.0m, which were accounted for as a hedge of the Groups overseas net investments and this hedging relationship remains in place.
The table below includes the sterling notional value calculated using the year-end exchange rate of the foreign currency derivatives outstanding at the balance sheet date.
The Groups objective in managing and measuring foreign currency translation risk associated with net investments in foreign operations and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies is to maintain an appropriate cost of borrowing and retain some potential for benefiting from currency movements whilst partially hedging against adverse currency movements.
It is the Groups policy to examine each overseas investment individually and to adopt a strategy based on current and forecast political and economic climates.
The Group measures foreign currency translation risk by identifying the carrying value of assets and liabilities denominated in the relevant foreign currency and quantifying the impact on equity of changes in the relevant foreign currency rate.
The Groups consolidated income statement is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates in the following ways: The translation of the revenues and costs of the Groups North American operations: and The translation of interest payable on US dollar and Canadian dollar denominated debt.
The Groups consolidated balance sheet exposures to foreign currency translation risk were as follows: 2011 2010 m m US dollars Net investments in foreign operations excluding intra-group balances, cash and borrowings 165.4 179.7 Cash 11.0 21.6 Borrowings 40.4 51.2 Notional value of foreign currency derivatives 95.9 104.5 Canadian dollars Net investments in foreign operations excluding intra-group balances, cash and borrowings 47.5 49.7 Cash 0.8 1.6 Borrowings 3.4 3.9 Net exposure 276.8 302.0 The amounts shown above are the notional values of all foreign currency derivatives that are net investment hedges and the carrying values of all items in the consolidated balance sheet that would have differed at the balance sheet date had a different foreign currency exchange rate been applied, except that commodity derivatives that are cash flow hedges are excluded.
The sensitivity of the Groups consolidated balance sheet to translation exposures is illustrated below: 2011 2010 US dollar US dollar balance sheet foreign exchange rate 1.6680 1.5307 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.5012 1.3776 Increase in consolidated equity m 25.8 28.3 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.8348 1.6838 Decrease in consolidated equity m 21.1 23.1 Canadian dollar Canadian dollar balance sheet foreign exchange rate 1.5827 1.5504 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 1.4244 1.3954 Increase in consolidated equity m 5.0 5.3 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 1.7410 1.7054 Decrease in consolidated equity m 4.1 4.3 The above sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: Only those foreign currency assets and liabilities that are directly affected by changes in foreign exchange rates are included in the calculation.
The above calculations assume that the exchange rates between any pair of currencies other than the pair stated do not change as a result of the change in the exchange rate between the pair stated.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 81 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued The Groups consolidated income statement exposures to foreign currency translation risk were as follows: 2011 2010 m m US dollars US$ element of North American operating profit 17.8 9.7 Intangible asset expenses 0.1 0.3 Redundancy restructuring costs 0.7 0.3 Share of profit of joint ventures 9.3 8.0 Exceptional items Nil 4.1 Net finance costs 0.4 5.2 Net tax charge 10.0 2.8 Canadian dollars C$ element of North American operating profit 2.2 Nil Net finance costs Nil 0.3 Net tax charge credit 0.8 0.1 Net exposure 17.3 4.8 The operating profit figures shown in the above table reconcile to the operating profit for North America shown in the segmental information in note 2 b as follows: 2011 2010 m m US$ element of North American operating profit shown above 17.8 9.7 C$ element of North American operating profit shown above 2.2 Nil Share based payment charges denominated in sterling 0.7 0.6 Operating profit shown in segmental information 19.3 9.1 The sensitivity of the Groups consolidated income statement to translational exposures is illustrated below: 2011 2010 US dollar US dollar average foreign exchange rate 1.5646 1.6020 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.4081 1.4418 Increase in consolidated profit after taxation m 1.8 0.5 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.7211 1.7622 Decrease in consolidated profit after taxation m 1.4 0.5 Canadian dollar Canadian dollar average foreign exchange rate 1.5823 1.7189 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 1.4241 1.5470 Increase in consolidated profit after taxation m 0.2 Nil Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 1.7405 1.8908 Decrease in consolidated profit after taxation m 0.1 Nil The above sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: Only those income statement items directly affected by changes in foreign exchange rates are included in the calculation.
For example, changes in commodity prices that indirectly occur due to changes in foreign exchange rates are not included in the sensitivity calculation.
page 82 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 83 Note 27 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued Foreign currency transactional risk Foreign currency transactional risk is the risk that future cash flows such as from sales and purchases of goods and services will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to limited foreign currency transactional risk due to the low value of transactions entered into by subsidiaries in currencies other than their functional currency.
Group Treasury carries out forward buying of currencies where appropriate.
The Group reviews and considers hedging of actual and forecast foreign exchange transactional exposures up to one year forward.
At 30 April 2011 there were no material net transactional foreign currency exposures 2010: Nil.
The Groups exposure to commodity price risk includes a foreign currency element due to the impact of foreign exchange rate movements on the sterling cost of fuel for the Groups UK operations.
The effect of foreign exchange rate movements on sterling-denominated fuel prices is managed through the use of fuel derivative financial instruments denominated in the functional currency in which the fuel is purchased.
Further information on fuel hedging is given under the heading Price risk on pages 84 to 86.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk principally through its borrowings and interest rate derivatives.
It has a mixture of fixed-rate borrowings where the fair value is exposed to changes in market interest rates, cash and floating-rate borrowings where the future cash flows are exposed to changes in market interest rates.
The Groups objective with regards to interest rate risk is to reduce the risk of changes in interest rates significantly affecting future cash flows and or profit.
To provide some certainty as to the level of interest cost, it is the Groups policy to manage interest rate exposure through the use of fixed and floating rate debt.
Derivative financial instruments are also used where appropriate to generate the desired interest rate profile.
The Group measures interest rate risk by quantifying the relative proportions of each of gross debt and net debt that are effectively subject to fixed interest rates and considers the duration for which the relevant interest rates are fixed.
Following the issue of the Groups 400m 5.75% bonds in December 2009, the Group adjusted its interest rate management arrangements to ensure an appropriate interest rate profile going forward.
Certain of the Groups interest rate cash flow hedges became ineffective and were cancelled.
As a result, the Group entered into interest rate fair value hedges with a notional value of 150m which synthetically convert a proportion of the fixed rate debt to floating rate debt.
At 30 April 2011, the interest rate profile of the Groups interest bearing financial liabilities was as follows: Currency Floating rate Fixed rate Total Weighted Weighted average fixed average period interest rate for which rate is fixed m m m % Years Sterling 342.2 268.6 610.8 5.8% 5.7 US Dollar Nil 40.4 40.4 4.2% 3.7 Canadian Dollar Nil 3.4 3.4 5.1% 0.9 Gross borrowings 342.2 312.4 654.6 5.5% 5.4 At 30 April 2010, the interest rate profile of the Groups interest bearing financial liabilities was as follows: Currency Floating rate Fixed rate Total Weighted Weighted average fixed average period interest rate for which rate is fixed m m m % Years Sterling 355.5 266.3 621.8 5.8% 6.7 US Dollar Nil 51.2 51.2 4.2% 4.7 Canadian Dollar Nil 3.9 3.9 5.1% 1.9 Gross borrowings 355.5 321.4 676.9 5.5% 6.3 All of the above figures take into account the effect of interest rate derivatives.
The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates fixed in advance for periods ranging from one to six months based on market rates.
The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is shown in note 23 b.
The Groups financial assets on which floating interest is receivable comprise cash deposits and cash in hand of 358.3m 2010: 375.7m.
Financial assets on which fixed interest is receivable total 2.8m 2010: 3.1m before impairment and comprise a loan to a joint venture in 2011 and 2010.
The net financial assets on which fixed interest is receivable have a weighted average interest rate of 7.0% 2010: 7.0% and have no fixed repayment date.
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
The interest rate derivatives outstanding at 30 April 2011 are designated by the Group as hedging instruments under a fair value accounting model.
No other hedging instruments are accounted for by the Group under a fair value accounting model.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 83 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued The impact of a change of 100 basis points on all relevant floating interest rates on annualised interest payable on cash and borrowings balances outstanding at the balance sheet date was: 2011 2010 m m Interest rates 100 basis points higher - Decrease in net finance costs 0.2 0.2 - Increase in net tax charge 0.1 0.1 - Increase in profit after taxation 0.1 0.1 Interest rates 100 basis points lower - Increase in net finance costs 0.2 0.2 - Decrease in net tax charge 0.1 0.1 - Decrease in profit after taxation 0.1 0.1 The above sensitivity analysis is based on the following methods and assumptions: - All relevant floating interest rates including Bank of England base rate and LIBOR change by 100 basis points.
- The change is calculated by working out an annualised interest charge on the amounts outstanding at the balance sheet date and comparing this to the same charge re-calculated for a change of 100 basis points in the interest rate.
While this provides some indication of the impact on future profit and cash flows from changes in interest rates, it does not necessarily indicate the extent to which the profit for the years ended 30 April 2011 and 30 April 2010 would have differed had the interest rates applying during those years been different.
- The impact of changes in interest rates on items that are not financial instruments for example, provisions and pension assets obligations is excluded.
Price risk The Group is exposed to commodity price risk.
The Groups operations as at 30 April 2011 consume approximately 370m litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profit is exposed to movements in the underlying price of fuel.
The Groups objective in managing commodity price risk is to reduce the risk that movements in fuel prices result in adverse movements in its profit and cash flow.
The Group has a policy of managing the volatility in its fuel costs by maintaining an ongoing fuel-hedging programme whereby derivatives are used to fix or cap the variable unit cost of a percentage of anticipated fuel consumption.
The Groups exposure to commodity price risk is measured by quantifying the element of projected future fuel costs, after taking account of derivatives in place, which varies due to movements in fuel prices.
Group Treasury is responsible for the processes for measuring and managing commodity price risk.
The Groups overall fuel costs include the impact of delivery margins, fuel taxes and fuel tax rebates.
These elements of fuel costs are not managed as part of Group Treasurys commodity price risk management and are managed directly by business unit management.
The Group uses a number of fuel derivatives to hedge against movements in the price of the different types of fuel used in each of its divisions.
The fuel derivatives hedge the underlying commodity price risk denominated in US$ and in the case of the UK Bus regional operations division, the UK Bus London and the UK Rail division, they also hedge the currency risk due to the commodity being priced in US$ and the functional currency of the two divisions being pounds sterling.
page 84 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 85 Note 27 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued At 30 April 2011 and 30 April 2010, the projected fuel costs excluding premia payable on fuel derivatives, delivery margins, fuel taxes and fuel tax rebates for the next twelve months were: 2011 2010 m m Costs subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus regional operations 76.3 68.0 UK Bus London 9.4 Nil UK Rail 19.0 14.9 North America 21.0 18.9 125.7 101.8 Costs not subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus regional operations 4.1 1.8 UK Bus London 11.4 Nil UK Rail 8.4 5.8 North America 9.0 4.6 32.9 12.2 Total 158.6 114.0 The figures in the above table are after taking account of derivatives and applying the fuel prices and foreign exchange rates as at the balance sheet date.
If all of the relevant fuel prices were 10% higher at the balance sheet date, the amounts in the above table would change by the following: 2011 2010 m m Costs not subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus regional operations 0.4 0.2 UK Bus London 1.1 Nil UK Rail 0.8 0.6 North America 0.9 0.5 Decrease in projected profit before taxation 3.2 1.3 Stagecoach Group plc | page 85 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued If all of the relevant fuel prices were 10% lower at the balance sheet date, the amounts would change by the following: 2011 2010 m m Costs not subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus regional operations 0.4 0.2 UK Bus London 1.1 Nil UK Rail 0.8 0.6 North America 0.9 0.5 Increase in projected profit before taxation 3.2 1.3 ii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Credit risk is managed by a combination of Group Treasury and business unit management, and arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to amounts due from outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The Groups objective is to minimise credit risk to an acceptable level whilst not overly restricting the Groups ability to generate revenue and profit.
It is the Groups policy to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
To control credit risk, counterparty credit limits are set by reference to published credit ratings and the counterpartys geographical location.
The Group considers the risk of material loss in the event of non-performance by a financial counterparty to be low.
In determining whether a financial asset is impaired, the Group takes account of: The fair value of the asset at the balance sheet date and where applicable, the historic fair value of the asset: In the case of receivables, the counterpartys typical payment patterns: In the case of receivables, the latest available information on the counterpartys creditworthiness such as available financial statements, credit ratings etc.
In the case of equity investments classified as available for sale assets, a significant or prolonged reduction in the fair value of the assets is considered as an indicator that the securities might be impaired.
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is shown in note 20.
The table below shows the maximum exposure to credit risk for the Group at the balance sheet date: Gross Impairment Net exposure Gross Impairment Net exposure 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Trade receivables 115.0 1.9 113.1 128.8 4.5 124.3 Loans and other receivables 57.7 2.8 54.9 37.6 3.1 34.5 Cash and cash equivalents pledged as collateral 20.3 Nil 20.3 65.8 Nil 65.8 Cash and cash equivalents - other 338.0 Nil 338.0 309.9 Nil 309.9 Excluding derivative financial instruments 531.0 4.7 526.3 542.1 7.6 534.5 Derivatives used for hedging 71.5 Nil 71.5 31.2 Nil 31.2 Total exposure to credit risk 602.5 4.7 597.8 573.3 7.6 565.7 The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer or counterparty.
The Groups largest credit exposures are to the UK Department for Transport, Transport for London, and other government bodies and financial institutions with short-term credit ratings of A1 or equivalent or better, all of which the Group considers unlikely to default on their respective liabilities to the Group.
page 86 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 87 Note 27 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued ii Credit risk continued 2011 2010 The Groups total net exposure to credit risk by geographic region is analysed below: m m United Kingdom 552.0 515.6 North America 45.8 50.1 597.8 565.7 The Groups financial assets by currency are analysed below: 2011 2010 m m Sterling 552.0 515.4 US dollars 41.0 44.7 Canadian dollars 4.8 5.6 597.8 565.7 All of the above financial assets carrying amounts are representative of their maximum credit exposure.
The following financial assets were past due, but not impaired at the balance sheet date: 2011 2010 m m Amounts 1 to 90 days overdue 13.7 12.5 Amounts 91 to 180 days overdue 1.3 2.3 Amounts 181 to 365 days overdue 0.5 0.1 Amounts more than 365 days overdue Nil 0.1 15.5 15.0 The Group does not hold any collateral in respect of its credit risk exposures set out above 2010: Nil and has not taken possession of any collateral it holds or called for other credit enhancements during the year ended 30 April 2011 2010: Nil.
iii Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups objective in managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, lease and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the business.
As at 30 April 2011, the Groups credit facilities were 1,112.1m 2010: 959.2m, 447.2m 2010: 466.0m of which were utilised, including utilisation for the issuance of bank guarantees, bonds and letters of credit.
The Group had the following undrawn committed banking and uncommitted asset finance facilities: 2011 2010 m m Expiring within one year 204.7 170.5 Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 6.6 322.7 Expiring beyond two years 453.6 Nil 664.9 493.2 Although there is an element of seasonality in the Groups bus and rail operations, the overall impact of seasonality on working capital and liquidity is not considered significant.
The Board expects the Group to be able to meet current and future funding requirements through free cash flow and available committed facilities.
In addition, the Group has an investment grade rating which should allow it access at short notice to additional bank and capital markets debt funding.
The Groups principal lines of credit have been arranged on a bi-lateral basis with a group of relationship banks which provide bank facilities for general corporate purposes.
These arranged lines of credit allow cash drawdowns to finance the Group and also include facilities which are dedicated to issuing performance season ticket bonds, guarantees and letters of credit.
The Groups committed bank facilities as at 30 April 2011 are analysed below: Performance bonds, Available for Available for guarantees non-cash cash Facility etc drawn utilisation only drawings Expiring in m m m m MAIN GROUP FACILITIES 2016 510.0 66.9 33.0 410.1 2014 42.0 34.8 7.2 Nil 2013 80.7 70.8 9.9 Nil 2012 69.6 51.8 17.8 Nil 702.3 224.3 67.9 410.1 LOCAL & SHORT-TERM FACILITIES Various 15.7 2.2 Nil 13.5 718.0 226.5 67.9 423.6 Stagecoach Group plc | page 87 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued iii Liquidity risk continued The Group manages its liquidity risk based on contracted cash flows.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
As at 30 April 2011 Carrying Contractual Less 1-2 2-5 More amount cash flows than 1 year years years than 5 years m m m m m m Non derivative financial liabilities: Unsecured bond issues 410.2 538.0 23.0 23.0 69.0 423.0 Redeemable preference shares 2.6 2.6 2.6 Nil Nil Nil Finance lease liabilities 43.8 48.2 11.7 8.4 26.9 1.2 Hire purchase liabilities 176.9 188.0 31.9 29.2 78.2 48.7 Loan notes payable 21.1 21.1 21.1 Nil Nil Nil Trade and other payables 420.8 420.8 406.4 14.4 Nil Nil 1,075.4 1,218.7 496.7 75.0 174.1 472.9 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Nil Nil 1,075.6 1,218.9 496.8 75.1 174.1 472.9 As at 30 April 2010 Carrying Contractual Less 1-2 2-5 More amount cash flows than 1 year years years than 5 years m m m m m m Non derivative financial liabilities: Unsecured bond issues 406.9 561.0 23.0 23.0 69.0 446.0 Redeemable preference shares 3.3 3.3 3.3 Nil Nil Nil Finance lease liabilities 55.1 62.2 9.9 12.5 33.0 6.8 Hire purchase liabilities 185.4 194.7 16.1 29.8 77.0 71.8 Loan notes payable 26.2 26.2 26.2 Nil Nil Nil Trade and other payables 438.4 438.4 426.5 11.9 Nil Nil 1,115.3 1,285.8 505.0 77.2 179.0 524.6 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging 11.3 11.8 4.4 5.4 2.0 Nil 1,126.6 1,297.6 509.4 82.6 181.0 524.6 The contractual cash flows shown in the above tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows under the relevant financial instruments.
Where the contractual cash flows are variable based on a price, foreign exchange rate, interest rate or index in the future, the contractual cash flows in the above table have been determined with reference to the relevant price, foreign exchange rate, interest rate or index as at the balance sheet date.
In determining the interest element of contractual cash flows in cases where the Group has a choice as to the length of interest calculation periods and the interest rate that applies varies with the period selected, the contractual cash flows have been calculated assuming the Group selects the shortest available interest calculation periods.
Where the holder of an instrument has a choice of when to redeem, the amounts in the above tables are on the assumption the holder redeems at the earliest opportunity.
In the case of bank loans, which are drawn under revolving facilities, the contracted cash flows in respect of interest up to and including the next rollover date are shown.
page 88 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 89 Note 27 Financial instruments continued d Accounting policies The Groups significant accounting policies and measurement bases in respect of financial instruments are disclosed in note 1. e Reclassification of financial assets There have been no reclassifications of financial assets between 1 those measured at cost or amortised cost and 2 those measured at fair value during the year ended 30 April 2011 2010: None.
f Collateral Included within the cash and cash equivalents balance of 358.3m as at 30 April 2011 2010: 375.7m are 20.3m 2010: 65.8m of cash balances that have been pledged as collateral for liabilities as follows: Nil 2010: 40.2m has been pledged by the Group as collateral for letters of credit issued by the Bank of Scotland as collateral for the Groups North American insurance provisions.
18.9m 2010: 23.8m has been pledged by the Group as collateral for 18.9m 2010: 23.8m of loan notes that are classified within current liabilities: borrowings.
The cash is held on deposit at Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland has guaranteed the Groups obligations to the holders of the loan notes and to the extent that the Group fails to satisfy its obligations under the loan notes, Bank of Scotland shall use the cash collateral to satisfy such obligations.
1.0m 2010: 1.4m has been pledged by the Group as collateral for liabilities to the vendors of certain businesses that the Group acquired in North America.
0.4m 2010: 0.4m is held in an escrow account in North America in relation to insurance claims.
The fair value of the financial assets pledged as collateral is the same as their carrying value as at 30 April 2011 and 30 April 2010. g Compound financial instruments The Group did not hold any compound financial instruments as at 30 April 2011 2010: Nil.
h Defaults and breaches The Group has not defaulted on any loans payable during the years ended 30 April 2011 and 30 April 2010 and no loans payable are in default as at 30 April 2011 and 30 April 2010.
The Group was in compliance with all bank loan covenants as at 30 April 2011 and as at 30 April 2010. i Income, expense, gains and losses The following items of income, expense, gains and losses in respect of financial instruments excluding commodity hedges, trade and other payables and trade and other receivables have been recognised in the financial statements.
2011 2010 m m Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Nil Nil Interest income and expense Interest income for financial assets and financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss 5.4 10.8 Interest expense for financial assets and financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss 36.0 58.3 Available for sale financial assets Losses recognised directly in equity Nil 0.2 30.6 47.7 The net finance costs reported in the consolidated income statement includes amounts that arise on non-financial liabilities and excludes amounts recognised directly in equity and impairment losses on investments.
The net loss presented above can be reconciled to the net finance costs reported in the consolidated income statement as follows: 2011 2010 Note m m Reconciliation to net finance costs: Net loss presented above 30.6 47.7 Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.9 3.7 Exclude losses recognised directly in equity Nil 0.2 Net finance costs reported in consolidated income statement 6 34.5 51.2 Stagecoach Group plc | page 89 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27 Financial instruments continued j Hedge accounting A summary of the Groups hedging arrangements is provided in the table below.
Type of hedge Risks hedged by Group Hedging instruments used Fair value hedges Interest rate risks Derivatives interest rate swaps Cash flow hedges Commodity price risk Derivatives commodity swaps Interest rate risks Derivatives interest rate swaps Hedges of net investment in foreign operations Foreign investment risk Foreign currency borrowings Derivatives foreign currency forward contracts Carrying value and fair value of derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are classified on the balance sheet as follows: 2011 2010 m m Non-current assets Interest rate derivatives 2.9 1.9 Fuel derivative 17.8 3.6 20.7 5.5 Current assets Interest rate derivatives 2.7 2.8 Fuel derivatives 45.2 22.9 Foreign currency derivatives 2.9 Nil 50.8 25.7 Current liabilities Fuel derivatives 0.1 4.0 0.1 4.0 Non-current liabilities Interest rate derivatives Nil 1.9 Fuel derivatives 0.1 Nil Foreign currency derivatives Nil 5.4 0.1 7.3 Total net carrying value Interest rate derivatives 5.6 2.8 Fuel derivatives 62.8 22.5 Foreign currency derivatives 2.9 5.4 71.3 19.9 The fair value of derivative financial instruments is equal to their carrying value, as shown in the above table.
Embedded derivatives In accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement, all significant contracts to which the Group is a party have been reviewed for embedded derivatives.
There were no embedded derivatives as at 30 April 2011 2010: None which were separately accounted for.
page 90 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 91 Note 27 Financial instruments continued j Hedge accounting continued Cash flow hedges - fuel As noted previously, the Group uses a number of fuel derivatives to hedge the different types of fuel used in each of its divisions.
The movements in the fair value of fuel derivatives in the year were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Fuel derivatives Fair value at start of year 22.5 61.1 Changes in fair value during year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 52.6 42.6 Cash received paid during the year 12.3 41.0 Fair value at end of year 62.8 22.5 The fair value of the fuel derivatives split by maturity was as follows: Assets Liabilities m m As at 30 April 2011 Within one year 45.2 0.1 1 to 2 years 17.0 0.1 2 to 3 years 0.8 Nil 63.0 0.2 As at 30 April 2010 Within one year 22.9 4.0 1 to 2 years 3.6 Nil 26.5 4.0 The fair value of fuel derivatives is further analysed by currency and segment as follows: Fair value Notional quantity of fuel covered by derivatives m Millions of litres As at 30 April 2011 Sterling denominated UK Bus regional operations 37.0 277.8 Sterling denominated UK Bus London 4.4 7.8 Sterling denominated UK Rail 9.6 88.1 US dollar denominated North America 11.8 79.1 62.8 452.8 As at 30 April 2010 Sterling denominated UK Bus regional operations 16.0 240.0 Sterling denominated UK Rail 1.1 47.5 US dollar denominated North America 5.4 79.0 22.5 366.5 Fair value and cash flow hedges - interest As noted previously, the Group uses a number of interest rate derivatives to hedge its exposure to floating interest rates.
In connection with the issue of the Groups 400m 5.75% Bonds in December 2009, the Group adjusted its interest rate management arrangements.
The Groups cash flow interest rate hedges became ineffective and were cancelled, resulting in a one-off exceptional expense and cash outflow of 20.5m during the year ended 30 April 2010.
The Group subsequently entered into a number of interest rate fair value hedges which cover periods up to 16 December 2014.
The movements in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used as hedging instruments in the year were as follows: Cash flow hedges Fair value hedges 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Interest rate derivatives Fair value at start of year Nil 21.0 2.8 Nil Changes in fair value during year taken to cash flow hedging reserve Nil 4.3 Nil Nil Changes in fair value reflected in carrying value of hedged item Nil Nil 6.1 2.6 Cash paid received during the year Nil 25.3 3.3 0.2 Fair value at end of year Nil Nil 5.6 2.8 Stagecoach Group plc | page 91 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27 Financial instruments continued j Hedge accounting continued Fair value and cash flow hedges - interest continued The fair value of the interest rate derivatives split by maturity was as follows: Cash flow hedges Fair value hedges Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m As at 30 April 2011 Within one year Nil Nil 2.7 Nil 1 to 2 years Nil Nil 1.5 Nil 2 to 3 years Nil Nil 0.3 Nil 3 to 4 years Nil Nil 1.1 Nil 4 to 5 years Nil Ni Nil Nil Nil Nil 5.6 Nil As at 30 April 2010 Within one year Nil Nil 2.8 Nil 1 to 2 years Nil Nil 1.3 Nil 2 to 3 years Nil Nil Nil 0.4 3 to 4 years Nil Nil Nil 1.5 4 to 5 years Nil Nil 0.6 Nil Nil Nil 4.7 1.9 All of the interest rate derivatives are sterling denominated and are managed and held centrally.
Cash flow hedging reserve Interest rate Fuel The movements in the cash flow hedging reserve were as follows: derivatives derivatives Total m m m Cash flow hedging reserve at 1 May 2009 14.8 37.4 52.2 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 4.3 42.6 38.3 Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in profit for year 24.8 37.0 61.8 Tax effect of cash flow hedges 5.7 22.3 28.0 Cash flow hedging reserve at 30 April 2010 Nil 19.9 19.9 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve Nil 52.6 52.6 Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in profit for year Nil 21.8 21.8 Tax effect of cash flow hedges Nil 7.4 7.4 Cash flow hedging reserve at 30 April 2011 Nil 43.3 43.3 Cash flow hedging reserve before tax Nil 58.4 58.4 Tax to be charged to income statement in future periods Nil 15.1 15.1 Cash flow hedging reserve after tax Nil 43.3 43.3 During the year ended 30 April 2010, forecast interest payments for which hedge accounting had previously been applied were no longer expected to occur because floating-rate bank loans were repaid following the issue of a fixed-rate corporate bond.
As a result, certain interest rate derivatives ceased to be effective hedging instruments and 20.5m of pre-tax losses previously deferred in the cash flow hedging reserve were immediately reclassified and reported in profit as an exceptional item see note 4.
There have been no other instances during the year ending 30 April 2011 2010: None from a Group perspective where a forecast transaction for which hedge accounting had previously been used was no longer expected to occur.
Hedge of overseas net investments Changes in the Groups hedging of overseas net investments during the year ended 30 April 2011 are explained on page 81.
The movements in the fair value of the foreign currency derivative contracts used as a hedging instrument in the year were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Foreign currency derivatives Fair value at start of year 5.4 3.1 Changes in fair value during the year 8.3 5.4 Cash received during the year Nil 3.1 Fair value at end of year 2.9 5.4 page 92 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 93 Note 27 Financial instruments continued j Hedge accounting continued Hedge of overseas net investments continued The fair value of the foreign currency derivatives split by maturity was as follows: Assets Liabilities m m As at 30 April 2011 Within one year 2.9 Nil As at 30 April 2010 1 to 2 years Nil 5.4 Note 28 Share capital Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are no longer required to have an authorised share capital and a resolution was passed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to take advantage of this deregulating measure.
Therefore, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The allotted, called-up and fully paid ordinary share capital was: 2011 2010 No.
of shares m Allotted, called-up and fully-paid ordinary shares of 56 57 pence each At beginning of year 720,066,186 7.1 719,478,434 7.1 Allotted to employees and former employees under share option schemes 58,764 587,752 At end of year 720,124,950 7.1 720,066,186 7.1 The balance on the share capital account shown above represents the aggregate nominal value of all ordinary shares in issue.
The Group operates two Employee Share Ownership Trusts: the Stagecoach Group Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST and the Stagecoach Group Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
Shares held by these trusts are treated as a deduction from equity in the Groups financial statements.
Other assets and liabilities of the trusts are consolidated in the Groups financial statements as if they were assets and liabilities of the Group.
As at 30 April 2011, the QUEST held 333,372 2010: 333,372 ordinary shares in the Company and the EBT held 1,854,213 2010: 2,003,075 ordinary shares in the Company.
The trusts have waived dividends on the shares they hold.
The Group had the right to redeem all of the remaining B shares at any time and redeemed the remaining shares on 31 May 2011.
The B shares that remained in issue are classified as liabilities and the dividends payable on such shares are classified in the consolidated income statement within finance costs.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 93 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29 Share based payments The Group operates an Executive Share Option Scheme, a Save as You Earn Scheme SAYE, a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and an Executive Participation Plan EPP.
The Directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 38 gives further details of each of these arrangements.
As disclosed in note 7, share based payment charges of 7.2m 2010: 8.9m have been recognised in the income statement during the year in relation to the above schemes.
Executive Share Option Scheme SAYE LTIP LTIP LTIP LTIP LTIP December June December October June June December June December Grant date 2004 2004 2003 2008 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 Share price at grant award date 1.1150 0.8575 0.8075 3.2750 1.8075 2.8000 1.6070 2.1160 2.0785 Exercise price 1.1150 0.8575 0.8075 2.5178 n a n a n a n a n a Number of employees holding options units at 30 April 2011 7 Nil Nil 4,237 Nil 13 14 14 14 Shares under option notional units at 30 April 2011 72,824 Nil Nil 6,042,752 Nil 1,030,295 2,779,259 1,185,910 1,085,777 Vesting period years 33 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 Expected volatility 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% Option award life years 7 7 7 3.5 33 3 3 3 Expected life years 4.4 4.4 4.4 33 3 3 3 3 Risk free rate 4.75% 4.64% 4.64% 4.43% n a n a n a n a n a Expected dividends expressed as an average annual dividend yield 3.14% 3.38% 3.34% 1.37% 3.15% 2.12% 4.04% 3.89% 3.37% Expectations of meeting performance criteria 100% 100% 100% 100% Fair value per option notional unit at grant date 0.26 0.20 0.19 1.14 0.70 1.08 0.46 0.52 0.60 Bespoke Bespoke Bespoke Bespoke Bespoke Option pricing model Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation These options became fully vested during the year to 30 April 2007.
These options became fully vested during the year to 30 April 2008.
LTIP awards are based on notional units.
One notional unit has a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares but subject to performance conditions.
LTIP awards are not share options and are valued using a separate simulation model therefore some of the above disclosures are not applicable.
Expected volatility was determined at the date of grant from historic volatility, adjusted for events that were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward.
Executive Share Option Scheme The movements in executive share options during the year were as follows: Award date At 1 May Exercised At 30 April Exercise Date from which Expiry date 2010 2011 price exercisable 12 December 2003 58,764 58,764 Nil 0.8075 12 December 2006 12 December 2010 25 June 2004 501,415 501,415 Nil 0.8575 25 June 2007 25 June 2011 10 December 2004 178,377 105,553 72,824 1.1150 10 December 2007 10 December 2011 738,556 665,732 72,824 All options were granted for nil consideration.
The mid-market price for the ordinary shares at 30 April 2011 was 2.47 2010: 1.97.
The Companys ordinary shares traded in the range of 1.60 to 2.47 2010: 1.16 to 1.99 during the year to that date.
As share options are exercised continuously throughout the year, the average share price during the year of 1.97 2010: 1.57 is considered representative of the weighted average share price at the date of exercise.
page 94 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 95 Note 29 Share based payments continued Save as You Earn Scheme One issue from the SAYE scheme was in operation during the year as follows: Issue Option grant date Savings contract start date Exercise price Date from which exercisable Expiry date E 1 September 2008 1 October 2008 10251.775p 1 October 2011 31 March 2012 The changes in the number of participating employees and options over ordinary shares were as follows: Issue D Issue E Number of Ordinary Number of Ordinary employees shares under option employees shares under option Beginning of year 349 909,097 4,841 6,828,996 Expired 53 92,619 35 61,960 Cancelled 53 92,619 495 626,799 Forfeited 53 92,619 74 97,485 End of year Nil Nil 4,237 6,042,752 Long Term Incentive Plan Under the LTIP, executives are awarded notional units with a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares but subject to the same performance conditions disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 36 and 37.
As noted in the Directors remuneration report included in the 2010 Annual Report, the Remuneration Committee considered it appropriate to bring forward the vesting date of the award to 31 March 2010 for Executive directors and certain others so as to permit vesting within the 2009 10 tax year.
The awards were re-tested on the original due vesting date to consider whether vesting on 28 June 2010 would have delivered a lower or different amount and it was found that the earlier vesting had resulted in an understatement of the award level and unit price.
Adjusting payments were made to reflect vesting of 100% of the available units at a unit price of 1.903 to reflect actual performance over the original performance period.
TSR ranking is based on the Groups TSR ranking in the FTSE 250 whereby 1 is top and 250 is bottom of the comparator group.
The TSR ranking is calculated by independent advisors.
Executive Participation Plan Under the EPP, executives and senior managers sacrifice part of their actual annual cash bonus and are awarded deferred shares with an initial market value approximately equal to the amount of bonus foregone.
In light of the approach adopted for the 2008 09 bonus award to Executive Directors and senior managers, which was awarded wholly in deferred shares under the EPP, the Remuneration Committee considered it appropriate to bring forward the vesting date of the 2007 EPP Award to permit vesting within the 2009 10 tax year for those affected individuals, subject to the requirement to retain a number of released EPP shares to the original due vesting date 28 June 2010.
The closing share price on the vesting date of 8 March 2010 was 1.7820.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 95 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 30 Reserves A reconciliation of the movements in each reserve is shown in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 44.
The balance of the share premium account represents the amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares offset by issue costs, bonus issues of shares and any transfer between reserves.
The balance held in the retained earnings reserve is the accumulated retained profits of the Group.
Cumulative goodwill of 113.8m 2010: 113.8m has been written off against reserves in periods prior to 1 May 1998 in accordance with the UK accounting standards then in force and such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
The capital redemption reserve represents the cumulative par value of all shares bought back and cancelled.
Details of own shares held are given in note 28.
The own shares reserve represents the cumulative cost of shares in Stagecoach Group plc purchased in the market and held by the Groups two Employee Share Ownership Trusts offset by cumulative sales proceeds.
The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translations of the financial statements of foreign operations.
It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
The cash flow hedging reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge.
The cumulative gain or loss is recycled to the income statement to match the recognition of the hedged item through the income statement.
Note 31 Consolidated cash flows a Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations The operating profit of Group companies reconciles to cash generated by operations as follows: 2011 2010 m m Operating profit of Group companies 190.6 156.2 Depreciation 90.3 77.2 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 0.9 2.0 Intangible asset expenses 10.1 6.0 Impairment of plant and equipment Nil 14.7 Equity-settled share based payment expense 4.7 6.3 Operating cashflows before working capital movements 296.6 262.4 Increase in inventories 2.1 1.9 Increase decrease in receivables 13.4 0.5 Decrease in payables 4.4 7.4 Decrease in provisions 2.8 1.9 Differences between employer pension contributions and amounts recognised in the income statement 20.4 17.2 Cash generated by operations 253.5 234.5 b Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: 2011 2010 m m Net book values 16.5 58.7 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 0.9 2.0 Loss gain on disposal of properties 0.1 4.3 Value of property, plant and equipment traded in 0.8 3.0 Movement in receivables and deposits for proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment Nil 5.0 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 14.7 53.0 page 96 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 97 Note 31 Consolidated cash flows continued c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt The decrease increase in cash reconciles to the movement in net debt as follows: 2011 2010 m m Decrease increase in cash 16.1 99.3 Cash inflow from movement in borrowings 29.9 3.9 13.8 103.2 New hire purchase and finance leases 8.1 65.7 Debt of acquired subsidiaries Nil 0.4 Foreign exchange movements 10.8 7.1 Other movements 0.7 0.8 Decrease in net debt 15.8 43.4 Opening net debt as defined in note 36 296.7 340.1 Closing net debt as defined in note 36 280.9 296.7 d Analysis of net debt For the purpose of this note, net debt is as defined in note 36.
The analysis below further shows the other items classified as net borrowings in the consolidated balance sheet.
New hire Foreign purchase exchange Other Opening Cashflows finance leases movements movements Closing m m m m m m Cash 309.9 29.4 Nil 1.3 Nil 338.0 Cash collateral 65.8 45.5 Nil Nil Nil 20.3 Hire purchase and finance lease obligations 240.5 24.1 8.1 3.8 Nil 220.7 Bank loans and loan stock 26.2 5.1 Nil Nil Nil 21.1 Bonds 402.4 Nil Nil 8.3 0.7 394.8 Preference shares 3.3 0.7 Nil Nil Nil 2.6 Net debt 296.7 13.8 8.1 10.8 0.7 280.9 Accrued interest on bonds and preference shares 8.6 23.0 Nil Nil 23.0 8.6 Effect of fair value hedges on carrying value of borrowings 1.3 Nil Nil Nil 2.6 3.9 Foreign exchange derivatives not included in borrowings in balance sheet 5.4 Nil Nil 8.3 Nil 2.9 Net borrowings IFRS 301.2 36.8 8.1 2.5 26.3 296.3 The cash amounts shown above include term deposits as explained in note 21. e Restricted cash The cash collateral balance as at 30 April 2011 of 20.3m 2010: 65.8m comprises balances held in respect of insurance letters of credit of Nil 2010: 40.2m, balances held in trust in respect of loan notes of 18.9m 2010: 23.8m and North America restricted cash balances of 1.4m 2010: 1.8m.
In addition, cash includes train operating company cash of 163.1m 2010: 182.8m.
Under the terms of the franchise agreements, train operating companies can only lend or distribute cash out of retained earnings, and only to the extent they do not breach franchise liquidity ratios.
f Non cash transactions The principal non cash transactions were the acquisition of property, plant and equipment using new hire purchase and finance leases.
During the year, the Group entered into hire purchase and finance lease arrangements in respect of new assets with a total capital value at inception of the contracts of 8.9m 2010: 72.4m.
After taking account of deposits paid up front and other financing transactions of Nil 2010: 3.6m new hire purchase and finance lease liabilities of 8.1m 2010: 69.3m were recognised.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 97 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 32 Contingencies Contingent liabilities i At 30 April 2011, the following bonds and guarantees were in place relating to the Groups rail operations: 2011 2010 m m Performance bonds backed by bank facilities Stagecoach South Western Trains 53.3 59.9 East Midlands Trains 17.5 20.8 Season ticket bonds backed by bank facilities and or insurance arrangements Stagecoach South Western Trains 46.8 45.2 East Midlands Trains 5.0 5.0 Intercompany loan facilities and guarantees Stagecoach South Western Trains 25.0 25.0 East Midlands Trains 55.0 35.0 These contingent liabilities are not expected to crystallise, except that the intercompany loan facilities will be used from time to time but eliminate on consolidation.
ii The Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have, in the normal course of business, entered into a number of long-term supply contracts.
The most significant of these relate to track, station and depot access facilities, together with new train lease and maintenance arrangements.
iii Under UK Rail franchise agreements, the Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have agreed with the DfT annual amounts receivable or payable in respect of the operation of rail franchises for future periods.
Under these agreements, there is a requirement to comply with a number of obligations.
Failure to comply with these obligations would be a breach of the relevant franchise.
The Group assessed whether a provision for onerous contracts is required in respect of its rail franchises.
The Group has discounted the expected future cash flows related to its rail franchises to determine whether it is probable that the benefits to be derived by the Group from the franchises will be lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting its obligations under the franchises.
Estimates of cash flows are consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
The Group has determined that no provision is necessary.
The estimation of future cash flows and the discount rate involves a significant degree of judgment.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
Under certain circumstances following a breach by the Group of one or more of its rail franchise agreements, the DfT has the right to terminate all of the franchises operated by the Group.
Where the Group has defaulted on one franchise, the DfT has cross-default rights that might enable it but not require it to terminate all of the franchises.
The financial effect on the Group of a termination of one or more franchises would depend on which, if any, of the Groups contingent liabilities that the DfT sought to call.
As at 30 April 2011, the capital at risk of the Group in this respect was: South Western East Midlands Trains Trains Total m m m Actual liabilities Net intra-group amounts payable to train operators 49.3 Nil 49.3 Contingent liabilities Season ticket bonds 46.8 5.0 51.8 Performance bonds 53.3 17.5 70.8 Parent company guarantees to suppliers Nil 9.5 9.5 Undrawn committed loan facilities 25.0 20.0 45.0 Capital at risk as at 30 April 2011 174.4 52.0 226.4 Cash Cash in train operating companies 116.9 46.2 163.1 Pro forma impact on net debt 291.3 98.2 389.5 We consider the likelihood of the contingent liabilities crystallising as being low.
However, if all of the contingent liabilities had crystallised at 30 April 2011, the Group would have needed to have financed 226.4m 2010: 247.2m and its gross debt would have increased by this amount.
In addition, the cash in the train operating companies would be transferred with the franchises and therefore the net debt of the Group would have increased by 389.5m 2010: 430.0m.
There is no recourse to the Group in respect of any liabilities or contingent liabilities of Virgin Rail Group.
iv The Group and the Company are from time to time party to legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.
Liabilities have been recognised in the financial statements for the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle obligations arising under such legal actions.
As at 30 April 2011, the accruals in the consolidated financial statements for such claims total 2.0m 2010: 5.4m.
In addition, certain of the claims intended to be covered by the insurance provisions see note 25 are subject to or might become subject to litigation against the Group and or the Company.
page 98 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 99 Note 33 Guarantees and other financial commitments a Capital commitments 2011 2010 Capital commitments were as follows: m m Contracted for but not provided For delivery in one year 119.8 11.1 b Operating lease commitments The following were the future minimum contractual lease payments due under unexpired operating leases as at 30 April 2011: As at 30 April 2011 Buses & other Land & road transportation Trains & Plant & buildings equipment rolling stock machinery Total m m m m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2012 11.6 7.8 134.0 3.5 156.9 Year ending 30 April 2013 10.3 7.4 124.6 2.0 144.3 Year ending 30 April 2014 8.3 6.2 85.2 0.3 100.0 Year ending 30 April 2015 4.3 1.9 Nil 0.1 6.3 Year ending 30 April 2016 3.8 0.2 Nil Nil 4.0 1 May 2016 and thereafter 27.2 Nil Nil 0.6 27.8 65.5 23.5 343.8 6.5 439.3 All operating lease commitments associated with UK Rail franchises are assumed to terminate in line with the expected franchise end.
The franchiseend for the purpose of determining the commitments is the earlier date of which each franchise could end if the Group failed to meet specified performance targets.
The amounts shown above do not include Network Rail charges, which are shown separately in note 33 c. The following were the future minimum contractual lease payments due under unexpired operating leases as at 30 April 2010: As at 30 April 2010 Buses & other Land & road transportation Trains & Plant & buildings equipment rolling stock machinery Total m m m m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2011 9.5 6.2 128.5 5.1 149.3 Year ending 30 April 2012 8.1 5.5 131.1 4.1 148.8 Year ending 30 April 2013 7.4 3.9 133.6 2.4 147.3 Year ending 30 April 2014 5.7 3.7 96.8 0.2 106.4 Year ending 30 April 2015 2.7 3.0 Nil Nil 5.7 1 May 2015 and thereafter 20.1 0.8 Nil Nil 20.9 53.5 23.1 490.0 11.8 578.4 c Network Rail charges The Groups UK Rail franchises have contracts with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots until the expected end of the franchises.
Commitments for payments under these contracts as at 30 April 2011 are as shown below.
2011 m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2012 140.7 Year ending 30 April 2013 125.2 Year ending 30 April 2014 100.9 366.8 Stagecoach Group plc | page 99 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 33 Guarantees and other financial commitments continued c Network Rail charges continued Commitments for payments under these contracts as at 30 April 2010 were as follows: 2010 m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2011 149.1 Year ending 30 April 2012 144.2 Year ending 30 April 2013 148.7 Year ending 30 April 2014 136.7 578.7 d Joint ventures Our share of commitments and contingent liabilities in joint ventures shown below are based on the latest statutory financial statements of the relevant companies: 2011 2010 m m Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 48.1 47.6 Franchise performance bonds 10.3 10.3 Season ticket bonds 2.1 1.9 The arrangements pursuant to which a performance bond is issued in respect of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, a joint venture, requires that the consolidated net assets under UK GAAP and applying its own accounting policies of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited are no less than 22.5m 2010: 22.5m.
This could restrict Virgin Rail Group Holdings ability to make distributions to the Group.
Note 34 Related party transactions Details of major related party transactions during the year ended 30 April 2011 are provided below, except for those relating to the remuneration of the Directors and management.
i Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited - Non-Executive Directors Two of the Groups managers are non-executive directors of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited.
During the year ended 30 April 2011, the Group earned fees of 60,000 2010: 60,000 from Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited in this regard.
ii West Coast Trains Limited West Coast Trains Limited is a subsidiary of Virgin Rail Group.
For the year ended 30 April 2011, East Midlands Trains had purchases totalling 0.3m 2010: 0.8m and sales totalling Nil 2010: 0.5m from to West Coast Trains Limited.
East Midlands Trains has a payable of Nil 2010: 27,000 owed to West Coast Trains Limited as at 30 April 2011. iii Noble Grossart Limited Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director is a former executive director and current non-executive director of Noble Grossart Limited that provided advisory services to the Group.
Total fees payable to Noble Grossart Limited in respect of the year ended 30 April 2011 amounted to Nil 2010: 13,333.
At 30 April 2011, Noble Grossart Investments Limited, a subsidiary of Noble Grossart Limited, held 4,084,999 2010: 4,084,999 ordinary shares in the Company, representing 0.6% 2010: 0.6% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
iv Alexander Dennis Limited Sir Brian Souter Chief Executive and Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director collectively hold 37.9% 2010: 37.9% of the shares and voting rights in Alexander Dennis Limited.
Noble Grossart Investments Limited see iii above controls a further 28.4% 2010: 28.4% of the shares and voting rights of Alexander Dennis Limited.
None of Sir Brian Souter, Ann Gloag or Ewan Brown is a director of Alexander Dennis Limited nor do they have any involvement in the management of Alexander Dennis Limited.
Furthermore, they do not participate in deciding on and negotiating the terms and conditions of transactions between the Group and Alexander Dennis Limited.
For the year ended 30 April 2011, the Group purchased 87.1m 2010: 48.9m of vehicles from Alexander Dennis Limited and 5.7m 2010: 3.4m of spare parts and other services.
As at 30 April 2011, the Group had 1.3m 2010: 0.4m payable to Alexander Dennis Limited.
v Pension Schemes Details of contributions made to pension schemes are contained in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
page 100 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:47 Page 101 Note 34 Related party transactions continued vi Robert Walters plc Martin Griffiths Finance Director is a non-executive director and Senior Independent Director of Robert Walters plc and received remuneration of 58,927 2010: 56,120 in respect of his services for the year ended 30 April 2011.
Martin Griffiths holds 20,000 2010: 20,000 shares in Robert Walters plc which represents 0.03% 2010: 0.03% of the issued share capital.
During the year ended 30 April 2011, the Group paid Robert Walters plc 5,286 2010: Nil for recruitment services.
vii Troy Income & Growth Trust plc Martin Griffiths Finance Director became a non-executive director of Troy Income & Growth Trust plc formerly Glasgow Income Trust plc on 8 November 2007 and resigned from the role on 31 August 2010.
He received 5,833 2010: 14,000 in respect of his services for the year ended 30 April 2011. viii AG Barr plc Martin Griffiths became a non-executive director of AG Barr plc on 1 September 2010 and received remuneration of 25,125 2010: Nil in respect of his services for the period ended 30 April 2011.
Martin Griffiths holds 1,800 shares in AG Barr plc which represents less than 0.1% of the issued share capital.
ix Loan to New York Splash Tours LLC A net interest bearing long-term loan of 2.8m 2010: 3.1m was outstanding from a joint venture, New York Splash Tours LLC, as at 30 April 2011. x Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited A non interest bearing loan of 1.7m 2010: 1.7m was due to Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited as at 30 April 2011.
The Group received 16.0m 2010: 14.9m in the year ended 30 April 2011 in respect of the operation of services subcontracted by Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited.
As at 30 April 2011, the Group had a net 1.6m 2010: 3.6m receivable from Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited, excluding the loan referred to above.
xi Argent Energy Group Limited Sir Brian Souter Chief Executive and Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director collectively hold 39.3% 2010: 39.3% of the shares and voting rights in Argent Energy Group Limited.
Neither Sir Brian Souter nor Ann Gloag is a director of Argent Energy Group Limited nor do they have any involvement in the management of Argent Energy Group.
Furthermore, they do not participate in deciding on and negotiating the terms and conditions of transactions between the Group and Argent Energy Group.
For the year ended 30 April 2011, the Group purchased 2.0m 2010: 0.4m of biofuel from Argent Energy Group.
As at 30 April 2011, the Group had 0.2m 2010: Nil payable to Argent Energy Group.
Note 35 Post balance sheet events All of the remaining 4,087,302 redeemable B preference shares were redeemed on 31 May 2011.
Note 36 Definitions Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit after taxation excluding intangible asset expenses and exceptional items by the basic weighted average number of shares in issue in the period.
Like-for-like amounts are derived, on a constant currency basis, by comparing the relevant year-to-date amount with the equivalent prior year period for those businesses and individual operating units that have been part of the Group throughout both periods.
Operating profit or loss for a particular business unit or division within the Group refers to profit or loss before net finance income charges, taxation, intangible asset expenses, exceptional items and restructuring costs.
Operating margin for a particular business unit or division within the Group means operating profit or loss as a percentage of revenue.
Exceptional items means items which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate need to be disclosed by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to allow a proper understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Gross debt is borrowings as reported on the consolidated balance sheet, adjusted to exclude accrued interest and the effect of fair value hedges on the carrying value of borrowings, and to include the effect of foreign exchange derivatives that synthetically convert an element of borrowings from one currency to another.
Net debt or net funds is the net of cash and gross debt.
