Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2011 IFRIC17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners.
Accounting policies of Stobart Group Limited provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of Basis of preparation and Statement of Compliance reserves or as dividends.
The adoption of this interpretation did not have The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Financial an impact on the Group.
Statements are set out below.
The policies have been consistently applied to Improvements to IFRSs issued 2009.
In May 2009 the Board issued its all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
second omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to These Group Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations as transitional provisions for each amendment.
"The adoption of the adopted by the European Union ""adopted IFRSs""."
The Financial Statements amendments has resulted in some changes to accounting policies but did for the Company are presented after the Financial Statements for the Group.
not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
The Financial Statements of the Group are also prepared in accordance with b New standards and interpretations not applied: the Companies Guernsey Law 2008.
Stobart Group Limited is a Guernsey registered company.
The Companys The following standards and interpretations have an effective date after ordinary shares and income shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
the date of these Financial Statements: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date Restatement of prior year Income Statement IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption The prior year financial statements have been restated following the from Comparative IFRS 7 disclosures 1 July 2010 reclassification of our property business operations to continuing operations.
54 These were classified in discontinued operations in the prior year.
The resulting IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure impact is to reduce the prior year continuing profit before tax by 770,000 amendment 1 July 2011 being losses made in the property related companies.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification Changes in Accounting Policy and Disclosures and Measurement Income Taxes Amendment 1 January 2013 The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial period except as follows: IAS12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Taxes: Recovery of a New standards, amendments to existing standards and Underlying Assets 1 January 2012 interpretations to existing standards adopted by the Group: Amendment to IFRS2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised 1 January 2011 Arrangements.
The amendment clarifies the accounting for Group cashsettled share-based payment transactions, where a subsidiary receives goods or services from employees but the parent or another entity in the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Group pays for those goods or services.
This amendment did not have IFRIC 14 Amendment: Prepayments of a any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Minimum Funding Requirement 1 January 2011 IFRS3 revised Business Combinations.
The revised standard increases the number of transactions to which it must be applied including business IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities combinations of mutual entities and combinations without consideration.
with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 IFRS3 revised introduces significant changes in the accounting for Improvements to IFRS issued May 2010 Various Dates business combinations such as the valuation of non-controlling interests, business combinations achieved in stages, the initial recognition and The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IFRIC subsequent measurement of a contingent consideration and the standards and interpretations.
As the Group prepares its Financial Statements accounting for transaction costs.
These changes could have a significant in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application impact on profit or loss reported in the period of an acquisition, the of new standards and interpretations will be subject to them having been amount of goodwill recognised in a business combination and profit or endorsed for use in the EU via the EU Endorsement Mechanism.
In the loss reported in future periods.
majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given IAS27 amended Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
in the original standard or interpretation but the need for endorsement The amended standard requires that a change in the ownership restricts the Groups discretion to early adopt standards.
interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as a The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and transaction with owners in their capacity as owners and these interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies any retained interest is remeasured to fair value with gains or losses recognised in profit or loss.
This amendment does not have any impact Revenue on the current year Financial Statements.
Revenue from the Eddie Stobart, Stobart Ports and Stobart Air business IAS32 Financial Instruments : Presentation Classification of Rights segments and the rail freight revenue in the Stobart Rail segment is recognised Issues amendment.
This amendment to IAS32 amended the definition in the income statement as the fair value of consideration receivable on the of a financial liability in order to classify rights issues and certain delivery of services delivered at the statement of financial position date net of options or warrants as equity instruments in cases where such rights discounts and VAT.
are given pro rata to all of the existing owners of the same class of an Stobart Rail infrastructure engineering contract revenue is recognised to match entitys non-derivative equity instruments, or to acquire a fixed number the sales value of work performed up to the statement of financial position of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount in any date based on stage of completion.
Stage completion is determined by internal currency.
This amendment does not have any impact on the current quantity surveyors.
Revenue is analysed by segment in Note 5.
Amendment to IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items.
The amendment clarifies that an Functional and Presentation Currency entity is permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes of cash The Companys functional currency is Pounds Sterling GBP and it has adopted flow variability of a financial instruments as a hedged item.
This also Pounds Sterling GBP as its presentational currency.
covers the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular situations.
The Group has concluded that the amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2011, continued Basis of Consolidation income.
Impairment losses except losses relating to goodwill can be reversed in certain circumstances.
Where the Company has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of another entity or business so as to An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any obtain benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary.
The indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist consolidated Financial Statements present the results of Stobart Group or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is Limited and its subsidiaries the Group as if they formed a single entity.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies are has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable therefore eliminated in full.
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That Business Combinations increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been Business combinations from 1 March 2010: Business combinations are determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss unless measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at the asset is carried at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated acquisition date fair value.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business Cash and Cash Equivalents combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand, demand deposits, 55 identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in and highly liquid investments readily convertible to known amounts of cash exchange for the business combination.
and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or Financial Instruments separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisitionhedge its cash flow risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Derivative date fair value can be measured reliably.
financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair transferred is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent value at each reporting date.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
The fair value of interest rate swaps are determined by reference to market Business combinations prior to 1 March 2010: Business combinations values for similar instruments.
were accounted for using the purchase method.
Transaction costs directly For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs.
The minority is desired, the hedging relationship is formally designated and documented interest is accounted for using the parent-entity extension method, whereby at its inception.
This documentation identifies the risk management objective the difference between the consideration paid and the book value of the share and strategy for undertaking the hedge, the hedging instrument, the hedged in net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of business effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable expected at inception to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
If the net fair value of the acquired flows and are assessed at the end of each reporting period to determine entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than that they are actually effective throughout the reporting period for which the cost of investment, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
Goodwill For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over instrument is recognised directly as other comprehensive income in the net the interest in the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent unrealised gains reserve, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the liabilities acquired.
Cost comprises the fair values of assets given, liabilities income statement.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are incurred and equity instruments issued, plus any direct costs of acquisition.
transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects the current period income statement.
Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the consolidated income statement.
Where the fair Foreign Currency value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceed the fair Transactions entered into by Group entities in a currency other than the value of consideration paid, the excess is credited in full to the consolidated currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate their income statement.
"""functional currency"" are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions Impairment of Non-Financial Assets excluding Inventories, occur."
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the Investment Properties and Deferred Tax Assets rates ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Impairment tests on goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets lives are undertaken at least annually at the financial year end and also if and liabilities are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
there are indicators of impairment.
Other non-financial assets are subject to The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the rate of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial position date.
their carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Where the carrying value of The income statements are translated at the average rate.
The exchange an asset exceeds its recoverable amount i. e. the higher of value in use and differences arising on the translation are taken directly to a separate fair value less costs to sell, the asset is written down accordingly.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual Financial Assets asset, the impairment test is carried out on the asset's cash-generating unit i. e. the lowest group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there Unless otherwise indicated, the carrying amounts of the Groups financial are separately identifiable cash inflows.
Goodwill is allocated on initial assets are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
recognition to each of the Group's cash-generating units that are expected Loans and Receivables to benefit from the synergies of the combination giving rise to the goodwill.
Impairment charges are included in the operating expenses line item in the These assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable consolidated income statement, except to the extent they reverse gains payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise principally previously recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive through the provision of goods and services to customers e. g. trade Financial Statements Financial Statements receivables, but also incorporate other types of contractual monetary asset.
At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has attributable to the acquisition or issue and subsequently carried at amortised expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, Impairment provisions are recognised when there is objective evidence such be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative as significant financial difficulties on the part of the counterparty or default expense since the previous statement of financial position date is recognised or significant delay in payment that the Group will be unable to collect all of in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
the amounts due under the terms receivable, the amount of such a provision being the difference between the net carrying amount and the present value The Group has a share based Long Term Incentive Plan accounted for as set of the future expected cash flows associated with the impaired receivable.
For trade receivables, which are reported net, such provisions are recorded Leased Assets in a separate allowance account with the loss being recognised within operating expenses in the income statement.
On confirmation that the trade Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and receivable will not be collectable, the gross carrying value of the asset is rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under written off against the associated provision.
finance leases are recorded in the statement of financial position as tangible assets, initially at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum Financial Liabilities lease payments and depreciated over their estimated useful lives as detailed Unless otherwise indicated, the carrying amounts of the Groups financial in the depreciation policy below.
The interest element of leasing payments liabilities are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is 56 Loans, borrowings and the Groups income shares are initially recognised charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.
at fair value net of any transaction costs directly attributable to the issue Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are of the instrument.
"Such interest bearing liabilities are subsequently not transferred to the Group an ""operating lease"", the total rentals payable measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, which under the lease are charged to the consolidated income statement on a ensures that any interest expense over the period to repayment is at a straight line basis over the lease term."
The aggregate benefit of lease constant rate on the balance of the liability carried in the Consolidated incentives is recognised as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease Statement of Financial Position.
term on a straight line basis.
Trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities are initially The land and buildings elements of property leases are considered separately recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the for the purposes of lease classification.
Separately Disclosed Items Share Capital The Group presents separately on the face of the income statement material Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the items of income and expense, which because of their nature, infrequency or extent that they do not meet the definition of a financial liability.
The Groups occurrence, or the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to income shares include a contractual obligation on the Company to deliver allow shareholders to better understand the financial performance of the year.
cash in the form of the annual preference dividend and, in the absence of Externally Acquired Intangible Assets excluding Goodwill any other terms that would indicate an equity element, have been classified wholly as a financial liability see Income Shares below.
The Groups Externally acquired intangible assets are initially recognised at cost and ordinary shares are classified as equity instruments.
subsequently amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
The amortisation expense is included within the operating expenses line in the Own shares held by EBT consolidated income statement.
Stobart Group shares held by the Group are designated as own shares held, Intangible assets are recognised on business combinations if they are classified in shareholders equity and recognised at cost.
Consideration separable from the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual legal received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any rights.
The amounts ascribed to such intangibles are arrived at by using difference between the proceeds from sale and original cost taken to appropriate valuation techniques see section related to significant retained earnings.
accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions below.
The significant intangibles recognised by the Group and their useful Income Shares economic lives are as follows: Income Shares, which exhibit characteristics of liabilities, are recognised as liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in accordance with IAS32.
Income Shares are initially recognised at fair value less issue costs.
Intangible asset Useful life After initial recognition, Income Shares are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The corresponding Brands Indefinite distributions on these shares are charged as interest expense in the Where there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which a brand is Consolidated Income Statement over the term of these shares.
These income expected to generate cash flows for the Group it will be considered to have shares were all redeemed or converted in the year.
Retirement Benefits: Defined Contribution Schemes Current Taxation Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are consolidated income statement in the year to which they relate.
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount Share-Based Payments are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of Where equity-settled share options are awarded to employees, the fair value of financial position date.
the options at the date of grant is charged to the consolidated income statement Deferred Taxation over the vesting period.
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each statement Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of financial position date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised of an asset or liability in the statement of financial position differs to its tax over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest.
base, except for differences arising on: Market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the options granted.
The initial recognition of goodwill: As long as all other vesting conditions are satisfied, a charge is made irrespective The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not of whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied.
The cumulative expense a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither is not adjusted for failure to achieve a market vesting condition.
accounting or taxable profit: and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2011, continued investment property at the time that the cost is incurred if the recognition Investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group criteria are met: and excludes the cost of day to day servicing of an is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is investment property.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
are stated at fair value, which reflects market conditions at the statement of Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is financial position date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values probable that taxable profit will be available against which the difference of investment properties are included in the income statement in the period can be utilised.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position disposed of or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities assets are from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of an investment property are Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally recognised in the income statement in the period of retirement or disposal.
enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax Rental income arising from operating leases on investment properties is assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either: spread on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Where an The same taxable Group company: or incentive such as a rent free period is given to a tenant, the carrying value Different Group entities which intend either to settle current tax assets of the investment property excludes any amount reported as a separate asset and liabilities on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities as a result of recognising rental income on this basis.
simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of Inventories deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
57 Inventories are measured on a first in first out basis and are stated at the Government Grants lower of cost and net realisable value.
Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that Non-Current Assets held for sale and Disposal Groups the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with.
Where the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale when: the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs They are available for immediate sale: that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, it is Management is committed to a plan to sell: credited to deferred income and released to the income statement to match It is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the the depreciation on the related asset.
Where the related asset is sold, the plan will be withdrawn: remaining grant balance is taken in to account in determining the carrying An active programme to locate a buyer has been initiated: amount of the asset.
The asset or disposal group is being marketed at a reasonable price in Dividends relation to its fair value: and Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of A sale is expected to complete within 12 months from the date of interim dividends to equity shareholders, this is when paid.
In the case of final classification or an extended period if the delay is caused by dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General circumstances beyond the entitys control but the Group remains Meeting.
committed to the plan to sell the asset.
Dividends on the Income Shares, which are classified as financial liabilities, Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are are treated as finance costs and are recognised using the effective rate measured at the lower of: method when there is a liability to pay at the statement of financial position Their carrying amount immediately prior to being classified as held for date.
sale in accordance with the Groups accounting policy: and Fair value less costs to sell.
Property, Plant and Equipment Following their classification as held for sale, non-current assets including Freehold land and buildings and plant and equipment are stated at cost less those in a disposal group are not depreciated.
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment in value.
Such The results of operations disposed of during the year are included in the cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment when consolidated income statement up to the date of disposal.
that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group's business that Depreciation is provided on items of property, plant and equipment, other represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of than land and assets under construction, to write off to their residual value operations or a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale, that has the carrying value of items over their expected useful lives.
Useful lives and been disposed of, has been abandoned or that meets the criteria to be residual values are reconsidered on an annual basis.
Depreciation is applied classified as held for sale.
at the following rates: Discontinued operations are presented on the income statement including the comparative period as a single line which comprises the post tax profit Buildings - 2% per annum straight line or loss of the discontinued operation and the post tax gain or loss recognised Modular buildings - 7% per annum straight line on the re-measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on disposal of the assets disposal groups constituting discontinued operations.
Long life plant and machinery - 5% per annum reducing balance Other plant and machinery - 10-14% per annum straight line Associates Vehicles and trailers - 14-33% per annum straight line The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting unless the investment is classified as held for sale.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment - 20% per annum straight line An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost plus post acquisition Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is the asset is included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of Borrowing costs attributable to qualifying assets are capitalised.
operations of the associate but the loss is limited to the equity investment Investment Properties made.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity and the statement of costs.
The carrying amount includes the cost of replacing part of an existing Financial Statements Financial Statements other comprehensive income.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non vesting conditions interest in the associate.
After application of the equity method, the Group are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for on the Groups investment in its associates.
The Group determines at each awards where vesting is conditional upon a market vesting condition or a statement of financial position date whether there is any objective evidence non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether that the investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case and there is or not the market vesting condition or non-vesting condition is satisfied, a resulting impairment, the amount is recognised in the income statement.
provided that all other non-market vesting conditions are satisfied.
Joint Ventures At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has Investments in joint ventures, which are jointly controlled entities, are expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or included in the Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting otherwise of non-market vesting conditions and of the number of unless the investment is classified as held for sale.
equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is initially recorded instrument subject to a market condition or a non-vesting condition, at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Groups be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative share of net assets of the joint venture.
Goodwill relating to the joint venture expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised.
income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the d Determination of fair values of intangible assets acquired in joint venture.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the 58 business combinations and in investments in associates and joint equity of the joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes ventures: Determining the existence and the fair value of intangible and discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity assets on business combinations and in investments in associates and and the statement of other comprehensive income.
Profits and losses joint ventures involves judgements and estimates.
resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the joint venture.
e Taxation: The taxation balances are calculated making certain tax After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is assumptions about the tax treatment of incomes and costs, and the necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups availability of certain losses for Group relief.
More details are disclosed investment in its joint ventures.
The Group determines at each statement of in Note 8. financial position date whether there is any objective evidence that the f Classification of certain vehicle leases: Certain vehicle leases contain investment in the joint venture is impaired.
If this is the case and there is a buyback arrangements at the end of the initial lease term.
The resulting impairment, the amount is recognised in the income statement.
classification of the leases as finance leases or operating leases in the Financial Statements requires judgement over the risk and rewards of ownership.
Summary of Significant Accounting Judgments, Estimates and Assumptions 3.
Operating Expenses and Other Operating Income Operating expenses are after charging crediting the following: The Group makes judgments, estimates and assumptions regarding the future.
Judgments, estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated Restated based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of 2011 2010 future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
000 000 In the future, actual experience may differ from these estimates and assumptions.
The judgments, estimates and assumptions that have a Employee benefits expenses significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts excluding share based payments 167,123 149,092 of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Depreciation 18,064 15,668 Other purchases and external expenses 278,297 248,521 Judgments, Estimates and Assumptions a Impairment of Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangible Assets: The Operating expenses underlying 463,484 413,281 Group is required to test, on an annual basis, whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amount is determined based Profit before interest and tax on value in use calculations.
The use of this method requires the Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18,064 15,668 estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a discount rate in order Profit on disposal of property, to calculate the present value of the cash flows.
Actual outcomes may plant and equipment 1,243 8,910 vary.
More information including carrying values is included in Note 13.
Release of government grants 123 302 b Useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: Operating lease expense Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are amortised or - Plant and machinery 16,556 15,037 depreciated over their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on the Directors estimates of the period that the assets will generate revenue, which are - Property 15,668 14,823 periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness.
Changes to estimates Fees charged to the income statement can result in significant variations in the carrying value and amounts relating for services by Group auditors charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in specific periods.
More - Statutory audit fee relating to audit details including carrying values are included in Notes 12 to 14. of Stobart Group Limited 75 50 c Share-Based Payment: Equity-settled transactions: The cost of - Statutory audit fee relating to equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to audit of subsidiaries 135 125 the fair value at the date on which they are granted and is recognised - Other taxation services 27 28 as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which - Services relating to corporate the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
finance transactions - 89 Fair value is determined using an appropriate pricing model.
In valuing - Other services 27 27 equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions 264 319 linked to price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2011, continued Costs due to Extreme Weather 4.
Staff Costs Costs due to extreme weather includes incremental vehicle damages and Notes 2011 2010 running costs caused by weather that results in a substantial part of our 000 000 fleet being adversely affected for a prolonged period.
Incremental costs include vehicle damages, drivers working unproductively and fuel Staff costs including Directors comprise: inefficiency costs.
The current year exceptional costs were caused by the Wages and salaries 150,936 135,890 extreme weather in November and December 2010 in the busy run up Social security costs 13,824 12,330 to Christmas.
Other pension costs 2,363 2,046 New Territory Business Set Up Costs Share based payment 23 467 2,513 New territory business set up costs comprise costs of investing in new major territories to commence or accelerate development of our business 167,590 152,779 presence.
These costs include establishment costs, legal and professional fees, losses and certain staff costs.
The current year exceptional costs Average number of persons employed were in relation to the development of businesses in Ireland and in Spain.
by the Group including Directors during the period 5,457 4,919 Transaction Costs Written Off Transaction costs comprise costs of making investments or costs of financing transactions that are not permitted to be debited to the cost 59 of investment or as issue costs.
These costs include costs on any aborted Directors Remuneration 2011 2010 transactions.
000 000 Restructuring Costs Directors emoluments 659 785 Restructuring costs comprise costs of major integration plans and other Number of Directors accruing benefits business reorganisation and restructuring undertaken by management.
under defined contribution pension schemes 24 Costs include cost rationalisation, brand harmonisation, site closure costs, certain short term duplicated costs, directly related management time, Further details of the Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors asset write downs and other costs related to the reorganisation and Remuneration Report.
integration of acquired and new businesses.
These are principally expected to be one-off in nature.
Segmental Information 000 000 The operating segments within continuing operations are Eddie Stobart, Stobart Reorganisation and integration Rail, Stobart Ports, Stobart Air including Air Freight, and Stobart Properties.
of James Irlam business - 1,288 The Eddie Stobart segment specialises in haulage, distribution, warehousing, Reorganisation and integration property and process management services and merchandising.
of Chilled business 319 1,090 The Stobart Rail segment specialises in infrastructure engineering and rail Reorganisation and integration of freight services.
the International business - 177 The Stobart Ports segment specialises in inland port and waterport services, Other 160 191 warehousing and distribution.
The Stobart Air segment specialises in operation of commercial airports including 479 2,746 air freight.
The Stobart Properties segment specialises in the rental of investment properties.
Net Profit on Disposal of Widnes Assets after costs The Board of Directors is regarded as the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The Board monitors the results of its operating segments In the year ended 28 February 2010, profit on disposal of property, plant and separately for the purposes of making decisions about resource allocation equipment includes a net profit on disposal of the chilled distribution site and and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based terminal at Widnes of 8,258,000 as set out below: on profit or loss, which in certain respects, as explained in the table 2011 2010 below, is measured differently from profit or loss in the consolidated 000 000 Financial Statements.
The main segmental profit measures are earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and also profit before Profit on disposal of Widnes assets tax both shown before separately disclosed items.
after direct costs but before directly associated costs - 11,190 During the year, certain property related assets have been reclassified in to Share based payment directly associated with the disposal - 1,758 continuing operations and accordingly the prior year segmental information Other costs directly associated with the disposal - 1,174 is restated.
These assets are included in the Stobart Properties segment.
Income taxes, and certain central costs are managed on a Group basis and Net Profit on disposal of Widnes assets after costs - 8,258 are not allocated to operating segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Included in adjustments and eliminations are central costs of 6,872,000 2010: 5,019,000 and intra-group profit of 1,068,000 2010: 314,000.
Also included in adjustments and eliminations are central assets and liabilities, inter company balances, and held for sale assets and liabilities.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2011, continued Geographical Information Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7,155 1,198 Revenue from Non-current external customers assets Impact of change in rate 1,351 - 2011 2011 Adjustment in respect of prior years 27 2,396 000 000 Total deferred tax 5,831 1,198 United Kingdom 460,586 501,246 Ireland 25,215 512 Total charge in the income statement 6,229 5,102 Europe 14,594 3 Reconciliation of income taxation charge 500,395 501,761 A reconciliation of the income tax charge applicable to the results from ordinary activities at the statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Groups Comparative information is not available.
This information will be effective income tax rate for the year is as follows: stated in future periods.
Restated The revenue from one customer amounts to more than 10% of the 2011 2010 Groups total revenue.
The revenue from that customer was 143.0m 000 000 for the year to 28 February 2011 2010: 116.7m and this was reported in the Eddie Stobart segment and the Stobart Ports segment.
Net profit before taxation 29,467 33,293 61 UK income tax at rate of 28% 2010: 28% 8,251 9,322 Analysis of revenue Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows: Effects of: Tax impact of disposal of land and 2011 2010 buildings in the year - 488 000 000 Impact of abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances - 847 Rendering of services Continuing operations 500,395 447,661 Income not taxable including interest receivable Finance revenue 924 928 and share of profits of associates and joint ventures 22 - Profit on disposal of non qualifying assets 46 - 501,319 448,589 Difference in overseas tax rate 171 - Impact of change in tax rate 1,351 - 6.
Finance Income Land remediation relief - 1,527 2011 2010 Expenses incurred not relievable 000 000 against current tax 1,830 960 Bank interest receivable 924 928 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,396 2,262 Losses brought forward utilised in current period 866 56 Total finance income 924 928 6,229 5,102 7.
Finance Costs 2011 2010 Included in the statement of other comprehensive income is a debit of 30,000 000 000 2010: 450,000 credit in relation to a cash flow hedge instrument.
Bank loans, loan notes and overdraft 3,863 2,822 Factors that may affect the future tax charge Distributions on income shares 105 422 The deferred tax balances reflected in Note 24 have been calculated at Amortisation of income shares issue costs 15 29 27% as this was the rate that was substantively enacted at the balance Finance charges payable under finance sheet date.
Following provisions announced in the budget on 23 March leases and hire purchase contracts 1,570 3,377 2011, the main rate of corporation tax reduces to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011.
Although there is no requirement to adjust the deferred tax balances above the impact of the additional rate change this would Total finance costs 5,553 6,650 reduce the deferred tax liability by approximately 1,480,000.
During the year 2,768,000 2010: 659,000 of interest was capitalised.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer has announced plans to reduce the corporate tax rate by 1% per annum in the future ultimately reducing to 8.
Taxation a rate of 23% by 1 April 2014.
These changes are not enacted in legislation.
As shown above a 1% reduction in the rate would reduce Tax charged in the income statement Restated deferred tax balances by approximately 1.5m per annum based on the 2011 2010 current balance.
Earnings Per Share UK Corporation tax - Continuing operations 1,683 6,197 Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted Overseas tax 138 - average number of ordinary 10p shares outstanding during the period.
Adjustment in respect of prior years 1,423 103 Total current tax 398 6,300 Financial Statements Financial Statements Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net A final dividend of 4.0p per share totaling 10,606,596 was declared on 23 May 2011 and will be paid on 7 July 2011.
This is not recognised as a profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the liability as at 28 February 2011. weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of shares that would have been issued on exercise of all the dilutive options into ordinary shares.
11. Business Combinations The following table reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations: There were no acquisitions during the period 1 March 2010 to 28 February Restated 2011.
2011 2010 Completion of acquisitions in the previous period where the acquisition 000 000 accounting was determined only provisionally.
Continuing operations The accounting for the acquisition of Stobart Air Limited was completed in Profit used for basic earnings 23,238 28,222 the period with no further adjustments made.
Effect on earnings of dilutive potential Acquisitions in the period from 1 March 2009 to 28 February 2010 ordinary shares 27 304 Acquisition of Stobart Air Limited Diluted earnings 23,265 28,526 On 30 May 2009 the Group acquired 100% of the voting rights of Stobart Air Limited, an unlisted company based in the United Kingdom, which operates a commercial airport.
Denominator Number Number 62 The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Stobart Air Limited as Weighted average number of at the date of acquisition and the corresponding carrying amounts immediately shares used in basic EPS 257,330,462 240,479,372 before the acquisition were: Effects of convertible Income Shares 339,555 4,502,013 Fair value Previous Effects of employee share options 253,479 1,420,000 recognised on carrying on acquisition value Weighted average number of 000 000 shares used in diluted EPS 257,923,496 246,401,385 Property, plant and equipment 14,153 4,746 The adjusted earnings per share is 9.7p 2010: 10.8p restated.
The numerator Cash and cash equivalents 32 32 used in calculating the normalised earnings per share of 24,832,000 2010: Trade and other receivables 224 224 25,948,000 restated is the underlying operating profit of 37,535,000 Inventories 47 47 2010: 34,249,000 restated plus the gains on separately disclosed property assets of 2,050,000 2010: 8,258,000 less share based payments of 467,000 2010: 746,000, less finance costs of 5,553,000 2010: 14,456 5,049 6,650,000 plus the finance income of 924,000 2010: 928,000 and allowing for a 28% tax charge of 9,657,000 2010 10,091,000 restated.
Trade payables 357 357 The adjusted earnings per share are shown to give a comparable measure of Other payables and deferred income 8,316 7,699 the underlying earnings per share.
Deferred tax 3,932 - On 21 September 2007 1,504,120 options, with an exercise price of 166.2p, were granted.
These are potentially dilutive instruments but were 12,605 8,056 not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive for the year and prior period as the average market price Net assets 1,851 3,007 of the shares was lower than the exercise price.
Goodwill arising on acquisition 8,028 The Income Shareholders had an option to convert their Income Shares into Ordinary shares at a rate of 0.854 Ordinary shares for each Income Share around Total consideration 9,879 31 March 2010.
These are therefore dilutive instruments at 28 February 2011.
On 9 April, 3,628,158 Income Shares were converted into 3,098,440 Ordinary shares.
The total cost of the combination was 9,879,000 and comprised the following: On 10 March 2008, 3 July 2008 and 20 August 2009 respectively, 2.79m, 2.25m and 2.4m share options were granted to Directors and management under the 000 Stobart Executive Incentive Plan with an exercise price of nil.
1,395,000 of these share options vested on 31 March 2010 are included as dilutive instruments.
Cash - The remaining share options are not dilutive instruments as the vesting conditions Shares issued 9,607 have not been met unconditionally at the year end date.
Costs associated with the acquisition 272 Own shares held in an employee benefit trust are excluded from the weighted average number of shares.
Dividends The Group issued 9,041,957 ordinary shares with a fair value of 1.0625 each.
This price was the market value at the date of the acquisition.
Dividends Paid 2011 2011 2010 2010 on Ordinary Shares Rate Rate The goodwill of 8,028,000 represents the fair value of the future earning p p potential of the business and other intangible assets, which cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature, in excess Final dividend for of the fair value of net assets identified.
These intangible assets include 2010 paid 18 June 2010 4.0 10,606,596 -- expected synergies available through development of the site including Interim dividend paid transfer of the Carlisle transport depot to the airport site.
10 December 2010 2.0 5,303,298 -- Included in other payables and deferred income were balances owed to the Final dividend for 2009 vendor of 4.6m which were repaid immediately following acquisition paid 22 June 2009 -- 3.3 7,977,629 under the terms of the option which stipulated that this part of the Interim dividend paid consideration was initially allocated to repayment of these balances.
10 December 2009 -- 2.0 5,015,766 Dividends paid 6.0 15,909,894 5.3 12,993,395 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2011, continued 12.
Bank borrowings are secured on the Group's freehold land and buildings.
Included in land and buildings at 28 February 2011 are assets under construction of 38.9m 2010: 10.7m.
The net carrying amount of property, plant and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of assets held under finance leases and are secured on the related assets: Land and Plant and Fixtures Commercial Total Buildings Machinery Fittings and Vehicles Equipment 000 000 000 000 000 Cost - 7,175 - 57,287 64,462 Aggregate Depreciation - 2,292 - 15,571 17,863 Net book value at 28 February 2011 - 4,883 - 41,716 46,599 Net book value at 28 February 2010 - 5,987 1,559 48,080 55,626 Financial Statements Financial Statements Stobart Rail Cash-Generating Unit 13.
Intangible Assets The recoverable amount of the goodwill in the Stobart Rail cash-generating Goodwill Brand Total unit has been based on value in use calculations using projections from financial names forecasts approved by senior management covering a 5 year 2010: 5 year 000 000 000 period.
The main assumptions on which the forecasts were based include Network Rail work volumes.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow Cost projections is 10% 8.4% based on the weighted average cost of capital for At 1 March 2009 163,258 60,000 223,258 the division, taking in to account the cost of equity and debt for the CGU, and Acquisition of cash flows beyond the 5-year period are deemed to be in perpetuity but no Stobart Air Limited 8,028 - 8,028 growth 2010: nil is assumed in the calculations after 5 years.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the period or the prior period.
At 28 February 2010 171,286 60,000 231,286 The calculation of the value in use is most sensitive to the discount rate.
With At 28 February 2011 171,286 60,000 231,286 regard to the assessment of value in the Stobart Rail unit, management believes that no reasonably possible change in the discount rate would cause Impairment the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
At 1 March 2010 and 28 February 2011 -- - Stobart Ports Cash-Generating Unit The recoverable amount of the goodwill in the Stobart Ports cash-generating 64 unit has been based on fair value less costs to sell calculations using estimated Net book value discounted cash flows after tax and direct selling costs.
The calculations are At 1 March 2009 163,258 60,000 223,258 based on projections from financial forecasts approved by senior At 28 February 2010 171,286 60,000 231,286 management covering a 5-year 2010: 5 year period.
The main assumptions on which the forecasts were based include container volumes and profit At 28 February 2011 171,286 60,000 231,286 margins.
The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 8.2% 2010: 6.2% based on the weighted average cost of capital of the division, and There are no internally generated intangible assets.
cash flows beyond the 5-year period are deemed to be in perpetuity with a growth rate of 4.0% following the expected development of the port.
Brand names consist of the Eddie Stobart brand and other Stobart-associated No impairment losses have been recognised in the period or the prior brands.
This brand name is considered to have an indefinite useful life as there period.
The calculation of the fair value less costs to sell is most sensitive is no foreseeable limit to the period over which it is expected to generate cash to the discount rate, container volumes and development progress.
The Group invests significant amounts to support the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount by a significant brand profile and development.
In order for the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying Further details of the accounting for the acquisition in the prior year are set amount, the value of the discount rate would need to be increased by out in Note 11.
35% and it would also be assumed that there was no growth.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives The goodwill and brands with indefinite lives from business combinations have 14.
Investment Property been allocated to three cash generating units.
Carrying amounts of goodwill and brands with indefinite lives allocated to each cash generating unit are set Investment property in 2009 year were carried at fair value and included in out below: Assets Held for Sale, determined based on valuations performed by Knight Eddie Stobart Stobart Total Frank, an accredited independent valuer, as at 28 February 2009 on the basis Stobart Rail Ports of open market value, supported by market evidence.
The fair value represents 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 the amount at which the assets could be exchanged between a 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 knowledgeable, willing buyer and a knowledgeable, willing seller in an arms length transaction at the date of the valuation.
The valuation was performed Carrying amount in accordance with the RICS Valuation Standards issued by the Royal Institution of goodwill of Chartered Surveyors and is based on available market evidence.
The 141,642 141,642 4,375 4,375 25,269 25,269 171,286 171,286 Directors consider that there has been no material change to the valuation in Carrying amount of brands the year based on an in-house review of the valuation.
with indefinite useful lives 2011 2010 60,000 60,000 -- - - 60,000 60,000 000 000 Eddie Stobart Cash-Generating Unit Opening Balance 2,000 - Reclassification from assets of disposal The recoverable amount of the goodwill in the Eddie Stobart cashgroups held for sale to investment generating unit has been based on value in use calculations using property in the current year - 2,000 projections from financial forecasts approved by senior management covering a 5-year 2010: 5 year period.
The main assumptions on which the forecasts were based include sales volumes and profit margins.
The Closing balance 2,000 2,000 pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 8.1% 2010: 7.3% based on the weighted average cost of capital of the division, At 28 February 2011, there were no restrictions on the realisability of investment taking in to account the cost of equity and debt for the CGU, and cash property or remittance of income and proceeds of disposal 2010: none.
flows beyond the 5-year period are deemed to be in perpetuity but no At 28 February 2011, contractual obligations to purchase investment property growth 2010: nil is assumed in the calculations after 5 years.
The calculation of the value in use is most sensitive to the discount rate and sales volumes.
With regard to the assessment of value in the Eddie Stobart unit, management believes that no reasonably possible change in the discount rate or sales volumes would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2011, continued 15.
Investments in Subsidiary Companies The Financial Statements include the Financial Statements of Stobart Group Limited and the principal subsidiaries listed in the following table: Name of Subsidiary Place of Proportion of Proportion of Business Incorporation Ordinary Ordinary Activity Shares held Shares held directly indirectly Hamsard 3212 Limited England 100% Holding company Stobart Holdings Limited England 100% Holding company Eddie Stobart Group Limited England 100% Contract logistics Eddie Stobart Limited England 100% Contract logistics Eddie Stobart Promotions Limited England 100% Corporate Merchandising Eddie Stobart Belgium NV Belgium 100% Contract logistics Stobart Ireland Limited Ireland 100% Contract logistics 65 Stobart Ireland Driver Services Limited Ireland 100% Contract logistics Stobart Rail Limited England 100% Rail services Stobart Rail Freight Limited England 100% Contract logistics Westlink Group Limited England 100% Holding company Westlink Holdings Limited England 100% Property investment Westlink Storage & Shipping Company Limited England 100% Contract logistics OConnor Group Management Limited England 100% Holding company OConnor Container Transport Limited England 100% Contract logistics OConnor Container Storage Limited England 100% Contract logistics OConnor Properties Limited England 100% Property investment Stobart Airports Limited England 100% Holding company London Southend Airport Company Limited England 100% Commercial airport Stobart Air Limited England 100% Commercial airport SAI 1 Limited England 100% Holding company Stobart Properties Limited England 100% Trading company held for sale of 2,050,000 has been recorded and is included in the Income 16.
Assets in Disposal Groups classified as Held For Sale Statement as a separately disclosed item.
The Board is in the process of marketing for sale the units in One Plantation The major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal groups classified as Place Unit Trust and is considering available offers.
Accordingly these assets held for sale at 28 February 2011 are as follows: are classified as held for sale.
In the year a gain in the value of this property Property trading Discontinued rail Total business services Assets 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 000 000 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2,050 2- - 2,050 2 Debtors - 60 -- - 60 Cash and short term deposits - 165 - 14 - 179 2,050 227 - 14 2,050 241 Property trading Discontinued rail Total business services Liabilities 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 000 000 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale - 3,002 - 6,925 - 3,923 Net assets liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 2,050 3,229 - 6,911 2,050 3,682 Certain other property related assets were reclassified in to continuing operations along with the residual balances remaining from the discontinued rail services.
Trade and Other Payables Current 2011 2010 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 Consumable supplies 2,196 1,365 Trade payables 39,488 29,227 Goods held for resale 161 194 Other taxes and social security 6,356 9,963 Other payables, accruals and deferred income 19,631 28,172 2,357 1,559 Government grants 233 234 Loans from related parties 103 - Interest rate swap 1,501 1,608 18.
Trade and Other Receivables Contingent consideration 5,000 5,000 2011 2010 000 000 72,312 74,204 Non-Current Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 2,186 - 20.
Non-Current Payables 2011 2010 2,186 - 000 000 66 Current Other payables, accruals and deferred income 2,646 234 Trade receivables net 76,637 60,687 Government grants 3,321 2,280 Other receivables and prepayments 30,819 23,061 Deferred lease liability 8,512 8,427 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 1,260 - 14,479 10,941 Corporation tax receivable - 478 Loans to related parties - 185 21.
Financial Assets and Liabilities 108,716 84,411 Loans and Borrowings 2011 2010 In the prior year a provision for 312,000 against a receivable amount was 000 000 made after a customer, Jarvis plc, entered Administration after the year end.
There were no other material provisions against receivables in the current year Non-current or prior year.
Fixed rate - Obligations under finance leases Movement in the provision for doubtful debts: and hire purchase contracts 22,643 31,509 2011 2010 Variable rate: 000 000 - Bank loans 69,119 11,367 At 1 March 793 27 91,762 42,876 Movement in year 342 766 Current At 28 February 451 793 Fixed rate - Income shares - 5,269 The analysis of trade receivables due but not impaired was as follows: - Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 22,402 18,891 Receivable Provision Receivable Provision Variable rate: 2011 2011 2010 2010 000 000 000 000 - Loan notes - 6,000 - Overdrafts 35,883 26,436 Current 49,354 27 54,358 - - Bank loans 10,000 10,600 1 month 19,016 - 2,547 355 2 months 6,391 - 3,457 - 68,285 67,196 3 months 2,327 424 1,118 438 Total loans and borrowings 160,047 110,072 Cash 3,937 13,313 77,088 451 61,480 793 Net Debt 156,110 96,759 The standard periods for credit sales vary from 30 days to 60 days.
The Group assesses credit worthiness of all trade debts on an ongoing basis.
The obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are taken New customers are subject to stringent credit checks.
out with various lenders at fixed or variable interest rates prevailing at the inception of the contracts.
The loan notes were repaid in full on 1 June 2010.
During the period 3,628,158 Income Shares were converted to 3,098,440 Ordinary Shares and 1,643,520 Income Shares were redeemed for 1 each.
There are no Income Shares remaining in issue.
The variable rate borrowings comprised a term loan which was repaid in full on 1 June 2010, two property loans which were repaid in full on 1 June 2010, a revolving credit facility, and overdraft facilities.
The revolving credit facility was fully repaid before the prior year end.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2011, continued The bank loans at the year end consist of a 70m variable rate Group finance Liabilities measured at Fair Value 2010 arrangement.
This is due for repayment in the following proportions: 25% 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 May 2018, 25% May 2019 and 50% May 2020.
There is a further loan of 000 000 000 000 10m which is repayable in full on 3 August 2011.
Interest rate swap 1,608 - 1,608 - The overdraft facility is secured on working capital and bears interest at 1.5% above the Bank of England base rate.
The Group was in compliance with financial covenants throughout the year During the reporting period ending 28 February 2011, there were no transfers and the previous year.
between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into The book value and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are as and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
follows: Financial Instruments - Risk Management Continuing Operations 2011 Book Value Fair Value The Group is exposed through its operations to the following financial risks: 2011 2011 Credit risk Fair value or cash flow interest rate risk 000 000 Liquidity risk Capital risk Financial assets In common with all other businesses, the Group is exposed to risks that arise Cash 3,937 3,937 from its use of financial instruments.
This Note describes the Groups Trade and other receivables 80,193 80,193 objectives, policies and processes for managing those risks and the methods used to measure them.
67 Financial Liabilities Principal Financial Instruments Trade payables 39,488 39,488 The principal financial instruments used by the Group, from which financial Contingent consideration 5,000 5,000 instrument risk arises, are as follows: Overdrafts 35,883 35,883 Trade receivables Cash at bank Loans and borrowings 79,119 79,119 Bank overdrafts Trade and other payables Finance leases and hire purchase arrangements 45,045 45,045 Interest rate swap 1,501 1,501 Floating-rate bank loans Income shares Finance leases Loan notes General Objectives, Policies and Processes Continuing Operations 2010 Book Value Fair Value The Board has overall responsibility for the determination of the Groups risk 2010 2010 management objectives and policies.
000 000 The overall objective of the Board is to set policies that seek to reduce risk as far as possible without unduly affecting the Groups competitiveness and Financial assets flexibility.
Further details regarding these policies are set out below: Cash 13,134 13,134 Credit Risk Trade and other receivables 60,872 60,872 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Financial Liabilities The Group is mainly exposed to credit risk from credit sales.
It is Group policy, Trade payables 29,227 29,227 implemented locally, to assess the credit risk of new customers before entering contracts.
Such credit ratings are taken into account by local business practices.
Contingent consideration 5,000 5,000 All credit sales are made under Group payment and delivery terms and Overdrafts 26,436 26,436 conditions and are mostly covered by insurance.
All credit limits are formally Loans and borrowings 33,236 33,236 set and are in agreement with the bank.
Finance leases and hire purchase arrangements 50,400 50,400 The recoverability of the net trade receivables book is considered highly likely.
Interest rate swap 1,608 1,608 This is supported by the history of collection by the Group.
Interest Rate Risk For trade and other receivables payables with a remaining life of less than The Group is exposed to cash flow interest risk from long-term borrowings one year, the carrying amount is considered to reflect the fair value.
and cash at variable rates.
There are loan facilities at variable rates.
These The fair values of loans and borrowings have been calculated by discounting borrowing policies are managed centrally.
The Group has one interest rate the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
swap in place at the year end.
Although the Board accepts that this policy neither protects the Group entirely from the risk of paying rates in excess of Fair Value Hierarchy current market rates nor eliminates fully cash flow risk associated with The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair variability in interest payments, it considers that it achieves an appropriate value of financial instruments by valuation technique: balance of exposure to these risks.
Level 1: Quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or During 2011 and 2010, the Groups borrowings at variable rate were liabilities: denominated in Pounds Sterling.
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect At 28 February 2011, if interest rates on Pounds Sterling denominated on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: borrowings had been 100 basis points higher lower with all other variables held and constant, the annualised effect on the Groups profit before tax from continuing Level 3: Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the operations would be 1,150,000 2010: 571,000.
The impact on retained recorder fair value that are not based on observable market data.
earnings, reflecting the after tax impact, would not be materially different.
Liabilities measured at Fair Value 2011 During the prior year the Group took out an interest rate swap to manage its 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 exposure to interest rate risk.
The Group has chosen to hedge account for this 000 000 000 000 swap under IAS 39.
Cash Flow Hedge Interest rate swap 1,501 - 1,501 - Financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are held at fair value in the statement of financial position.
Financial Statements Financial Statements At 28 February 2011, the Group held an interest rate swap contract which The Group prepares rolling weekly 3-month cash flow projections and daily was designated as hedged against a proportion of the interest cash flow cash forecasts for the following week.
Actual cash and debt positions along payable in respect of its LIBOR floating rate borrowings.
with available facilities and headroom are reported weekly.
Working capital levels including analyses of receivables and payables profiles are reported by The fair value of interest rate swap contracts at 28 February 2011 is division weekly.
These are monitored by Group management.
For the largest 1,501,000 2010: 1,608,000. part of the business, cash is monitored against forecast and reported to Group The interest rate hedges of the expected future interest cash flows was management on a daily basis.
assessed to be highly effective and an unrealised profit of 107,000 2010: In addition, full annual 5-year forecasts are prepared including cash flow and loss 1,608,000, with a deferred tax charge of 30,000 2010: credit headroom forecasts.
These are full detailed forecasts built up by division and 450,000 was included in other comprehensive income.
The principal amount of the swap was 28,125,000 at 28 February 2011 and The Financial Statements have been prepared using the going concern basis reduces in equal quarterly installments of 175,000 to 25,500,000 by as the financial forecasts support the assumption that the Group will be able October 2014. to meet its obligations when they fall due.
Capital Management The table below summarises the maturity analysis of financial liabilities at 28 The objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains February 2011 based on contractual undiscounted payments: a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business 1 year 1 to 5 5 years Total and maximise shareholder value.
years The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratios.
Gearing based on net debt 000 000 000 000 divided by capital was 47.1% at 28 February 2011 2010: 31.7% Gearing 68 excluding fleet finance and financed fleet assets was 33.5% at 28 February Period to 28 February 2011 2011 2010: 15.2%.
The Group includes the following within borrowings: Loans and borrowings 49,846 13,459 80,745 144,050 bank loans and overdrafts, finance leases and hire purchase contracts, income Finance lease borrowings 23,853 23,248 - 47,101 shares and loan notes.
Capital comprises equity attributable to the equity Trade payables 39,488 -- 39,488 holders of the parent.
Other payables 19,631 -- 19,631 The Group uses share capital to partly fund major acquisitions where considered appropriate.
Interest rate swap 1,501 -- 1,501 The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital restraints.
134,319 36,707 80,745 251,771 Dividends are payable out of distributable profits after considering the forecast Period to 28 February 2010 funding requirements and headroom.
Loans and borrowings 49,273 7,913 4,743 61,929 Liquidity Risk Finance lease borrowings 20,818 32,307 - 53,125 Liquidity risk arises from the Groups management of working capital and the Trade payables 29,227 -- 29,227 finance charges and principal repayments on its debt instruments.
It is the risk Other payables 28,172 -- 28,172 that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
See also the maturity profile of loans and borrowings below.
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Year End Issued Residence Percentage of Ordinary nominal value of Shares of issued shares 1.00 each or members capital held 1 Ropewalks One LLP 30 September n a UK 50% Westbury Fitness Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 50% Westbury Fitness Hull Limited 30 April 1 Isle of Man 50% Westar Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 50% Westar 2 Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 50% Burion Limited 31 December 2 Guernsey 50% The Synergy Gateshead Unit Trust 31 December n a Jersey 50% The Gateshead Unit Trust 31 December n a Jersey 50% 1 Endeavour Ware Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 47.5% Convoy Limited 5 April 2 Isle of Man 50% Starion Tottenham Court Road Limited 30 April 1 Isle of Man 50% Stobart Biomass Products Limited 31 March 10,000 UK 50% 1,2 3 Everdeal Limited 31 December 35 Eire 5% 1 These entities are associates, all others are joint ventures.
Consequently the Group have equity accounted for 2 32.5% of the profit or loss of the investment in line with the guidance set Treated as an associated company as the provisions in the shareholder out in IAS28 Investments in Associates.
agreement and option to increase the shareholding by a further 27.5% are 4 considered to give the Group significant influence.
On 24 March 2010 the Group made a 50% investment in newly set up Stobart Biomass Products Limited for 30m, half in shares and half in cash.
3 On 10 November 2010 the Group made a 5% interest in Everdeal Limited which owns Aer Arann Group.
The shareholding represents 35 preference Further details about the operations of Stobart Biomass Products Limited are shares of 1 each.
The Group has an option to increase the shareholding set out on page 13.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2011, continued The above investments comprise: The following information is given in respect of the Groups share of all joint ventures: The movement on investments in associates during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 Non-current assets 36,218 35,833 000 000 Current assets 1,467 617 Opening balance -- 37,685 36,450 Investments acquired in period 156 - Share of losses in period 156 - Current liabilities 11,631 9,535 Closing balance -- Non-current liabilities 28,915 28,915 40,546 38,450 Associates 2011 2010 000 000 Share of net liabilities 2,861 2,000 Cost of share of members capital 690 534 Share of Joint Ventures revenue and profit: Share of accumulated profits and taxation 690 534 Revenue 2,671 928 -- 69 Profit loss after tax 780 131 The following information is given in respect of the Groups share of all 23.
Share-Based Payments associates: 2011 2010 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 Expenses arising from equity-settled Non-current assets 12 - share based payment transactions: Current assets 561 563 Share options 65 118 573 563 Long term incentive plan 402 2,144 Current liabilities 120 120 Cash settled employers National Insurance Non-current liabilities 14 - charge on options under long term incentive plan that have vested - 251 134 120 Total expense arising from Share of net assets 439 443 share-based payment transactions 467 2,513 Share of associates revenue and profit: Of the share based payment charge above, nil 2010: 1,758,000 has Revenue 4,108 142 been deducted in arriving at the net profit on disposal of the Widnes assets as directly related to that disposal and 467,000 2010: 746,000 Loss after tax 156 - is included on the face of the income statement as share based payments on underlying operating profit.
The share-based payment plans are described below.
The unrecognised share of losses in associates in the year is 550,000 2010: 60,000.
Share Options The movement on investments in joint ventures during the year was as follows: On 21 September 2007 1,504,120 options over the 10p ordinary shares were granted with an exercise price of 1.66 each.
The options vest over 2011 2010 a 3 year period and there are no performance conditions attached.
These 000 000 options lapse in September 2017.
Opening balance -- Incentive Plan Investments acquired in period 30,000 - On 10 March 2008, 2.79m share options were granted to Directors and Share of profits in period 780 - Management under the Stobart Executive Equity Incentive Plan SEEIP.
The exercise price of the options is nil.
Closing balance 30,780 - On 3 July 2008 2.25m share options were granted to Directors and Management under the Stobart Executive Equity Incentive Plan SEEIP.
Joint Ventures 2011 2010 000 000 On 20 August 2009, 2.4m share options were granted to Directors and Management under the Stobart Executive Equity Incentive Plan SEEIP.
The Cost of share of members capital 31,375 1,712 exercise price of the options is nil.
Loans to joint ventures 2,993 2,519 The Incentive Plan is designed to provide incentives to key employees of Share of accumulated profits, the Group who are selected to participate by the Groups remuneration revaluation gains deficits and taxation 3,588 4,231 committee.
Participants will be allocated units, each of which will represent one 10p ordinary share and will vest on the third anniversary of 30,780 - the date of grant.
Fifty, forty and forty percent of the units granted 10 March 2008, 3 July 2008 and 20 August 2009 respectively will vest subject to the total shareholder return TSR of the Group measured over a three year performance period from the date of grant relative to a comparator group.
Fifty, sixty and sixty percent of the units granted 10 March 2008, 3 July 2008 and 20 August 2009 respectively will vest subject to the achievement of a specified increase in the Companys earnings per share EPS over two, three and three consecutive financial years respectively starting in the year in which the grant is made.
Financial Statements Financial Statements The fair value of the options granted without market based vesting conditions 24.
Deferred Tax are estimated using a Black-Scholes model taking in to account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The fair value of the options 2011 2010 granted with market based vesting conditions are estimated using a Monte 000 000 Carlo model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
Accelerated allowances on plant & machinery 5,889 4,647 On 28 February 2010, 1,395,000 of the EPS related March 2008 options Rollover relief 4,111 - became fully vested and were exercised during the year.
Following the year Revaluation of properties to fair value on acquisition 17,573 18,224 end, 979,848 of the TSR related March 2008 options became fully vested and Brands recognised on acquisition 16,200 16,800 were exercised.
Other temporary differences 3,893 5,428 The options under the Incentive Plan have no lapse date.
Movements in the Period 39,880 34,243 The following table illustrates the number No.
and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, share options during the period: Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of certain tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is 2011 2011 2010 2010 probable that the assets will be recovered.
'000 WAEP Deferred tax has not been provided on trading losses of 24.3m 2010: Outstanding at 1 March 8,932 0.28 6,544 0.38 30.1m carried forward in the Group on the basis that they may not be 70 relievable against chargeable profits in future.
Granted during the period -- 2,388 nil Exercised during the period 1,395 nil - nil 25.
Issued Share Capital and Reserves Outstanding at 28 February 7,537 0.28 8,932 0.28 2011 2010 Exercisable at 28 February 1,504 1,395 000 000 Authorised share capital Ordinary Shares The following table lists the inputs to the models used for the periods ended Authorised 300,000,000 28 February 2011 and 29 February 2010: 2010: 300,000,000 shares of 10p each 30,000 30,000 2009 Share Options SEEP options SEEP Options subject to TSR subject to EPS Dividend yield % 5.7 5.7 Authorised share capital Deferred Shares Expected volatility % 23 23 Authorised 1,000 shares of 0.1p each 11 Risk-free interest rate % 1.82 1.82 Expected life of options years 33 Number of Share Number of Share Weighted average share price 1.13 1.13 shares Capital shares Capital 2011 2010 '000 000 '000 000 Model Used Monte Carlo Black-Scholes Ordinary Shares of 10p each issued and fully paid At beginning of period 250,788 25,079 241,746 24,175 2008 Share Options SEEP options SEEP Options subject to TSR subject to EPS Issued during the period 14,377 1,438 9,042 904 Total share capital 265,165 26,517 250,788 25,079 Dividend yield % 6.0 6.0 Expected volatility % 35 35 Risk-free interest rate % 4.0 4.0 On 23 March 2010 11,278,195 ordinary shares were issued upon the Expected life of options years 33 investment in Stobart Biomass Products Limited.
These shares had a fair value of 133p.
Weighted average share price 1.21 1.17 On 14 April 2010 a further 3,098,440 Ordinary shares were issued on conversion Model Used Monte Carlo Black-Scholes of 3,628,158 Income Shares.
The share price at the date of conversion was 117p.
Voting Rights Ordinary shareholders are entitled to vote at all general meetings.
2007 Share Options Share options The Deferred Shares have no voting rights.
Dividend yield % 5.4 Capital Entitlement Expected volatility % 30 The deferred shareholders are entitled to the repayment of the amounts Risk-free interest rate % 4.9 paid up on the Deferred Shares after payment in respect of each Ordinary Expected life of options years 3 Share and 1m Weighted average share price 1.66 Nature and purpose of other reserves Own shares held by EBT: This comprises the weighted average cost of own Model Used Black-Scholes shares held by the employee benefit trust.
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily Foreign currency exchange reserve: Gains losses arising on retranslating indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the net assets of overseas operations into Sterling.
the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which Hedge reserve: The hedge reserve is used to record the effect of a cashflow may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of the share options granted in the prior year is 72p.
No share options were granted in the current year.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2011, continued 26.
Lease Commitments Group as Lessee Group as Lessor The Group has operating lease agreements for land and buildings, used The Group has entered into commercial property leases on certain of its properties.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining terms of between primarily for the provision of warehousing facilities to customers and as 1 and 30 years.
All leases include a clause to enable upward revision of vehicle depot locations, and in respect of the Groups transport vehicle the rental charge on an annual basis according to prevailing market and trailer fleet.
These leases typically have terms of renewal but do not conditions.
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable contain purchase options.
Property leases typically include rent review operating leases are as follows: clauses which allow for upward revision to the rental charge on a periodic basis, according to prevailing market conditions.
Where escalation clauses 2011 2010 are present that stipulate specific increases to the rental amount the 000 000 operating lease expense is recorded on a straight-line basis.
Similarly, lease incentives are recorded on a straight-line basis.
Within one year 374 2,709 At the statement of financial position date, the Group had outstanding After one year but not more than five years 5,923 4,522 commitments for future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: More than five years 10,453 8,496 Property Vehicles Property Vehicles 16,750 15,727 plant and plant and 71 equipment equipment 2011 2011 2010 2010 000 000 000 000 Within one year 13,349 21,432 15,866 20,433 After one year but not more than five years 47,782 34,982 55,460 12,329 More than five years 85,793 127 75,636 597 146,924 56,541 146,962 33,359 Finance Lease and Hire Purchase Commitments: Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: Min.
Financial Statements Financial Statements VLL Limited is a subsidiary of WA Developments International Limited.
Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement the year, the Group made sales of 70,000 2010: nil and made purchases of 809,000 relating to the provision of transport services 2010: nil from Notes Restated VLL Limited.
nil 2010: nil was owed by the Group at the year end.
2011 2010 AstSigns Limited is 27% owned by W Stobart.
During the year, the Group 000 000 made purchases of 275,000 2010: 349,000 from AstSigns Limited of Profit before tax on continuing operations 29,467 33,293 which 103,000 2010: 28,000 was owed by the Group at the year end.
STA 2006 LLP is a joint venture of WA Developments International Profit before tax 29,467 33,293 Limited.
During the year the Group made sales of 22,000 2010: 9,000 to STA 2006 LLP of which nil 2010: 9,000 was owed to the Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows Group at the year end.
Non-cash: Associates and Joint Ventures Realised profit on sale of property, The Group had loans outstanding from its joint venture interest, Starion plant and equipment 1,243 8,910 Tottenham Court Road Limited of 2,053,000 2010: 2,053,000 at the Share of post tax profits of associates year end of which 1,553,000 2010: 2,053,000 has been provided for.
and joint ventures accounted for using The Group had loans due to its associated interest, Ropewalks One LLP the equity method 124 131 of 18,000 2010: 33,000 at the year end of which 18,000 2010: Reversal of writedown in held 33,000 has been provided for.
for sale assets 2,050 - 72 The Group had loans outstanding from its joint venture interest Westbury Reversal of writedown of loan Fitness Hull Limited of 471,000 2010: 471,000 at the year end of which to joint venture 500 - 471,000 2010: 471,000 has been provided for.
A dividend of nil Depreciation of property, 2010: 256,000 was received in the year.
plant and equipment 12 18,064 15,668 The Group had loans outstanding from its joint venture interest Westar Investment income 6 924 928 Limited of 2,022,000 2010: 2,022,000 of which 1,822,000 2010: Interest expense 7 5,538 6,621 1,822,000 has been provided for.
Amortisation of income share issue costs 15 29 The Group made sales of 304,000 2010: nil to its joint venture Foreign exchange movements 10 - interest, Stobart Biomass Products Limited of which 157,000 2010: Share option charge excluding amounts nil was outstanding owed to the Group at the year end.
The Group included above within Realised profit on had loans outstanding from Stobart Biomass Products Limited of sale of property, plant and equipment 23 467 755 1,038,000 2010: nil at the year end.
The Group had loans due to its associated interest, Endeavour Ware Working capital adjustments: Limited of 416,000 2010: 416,000 at the year end.
Increase decrease in inventories 798 188 The Group had loans outstanding from its associate interest, Everdeal Increase decrease in trade and Limited of 2,251,000 2010: nil at the year end.
other receivables 22,212 11,574 There were no other transactions between the Group and the joint Increase in trade and other payables 1,981 4,550 ventures and associates during the year ended 28 February 2011 and the year ended 28 February 2010.
Cash generated from operations 27,671 39,823 Key Management Personnel Issue of ordinary shares - Key management personnel are the Executive and Non-Executive Issue costs paid on issuance of Directors as well as William Stobart and David Irlam who stepped down ordinary shares 277 253 as Directors in the year and whose remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
277 253 During the year, A Tinkler made purchases of nil 2010: 97,000, of which 84,000 2010: 166,000 was owed to the Group at the year end.
This was at an arms length rate.
Related Parties Relationships of Common Control or Significant Influence 29.
Post Balance Sheet Events WA Developments International Limited is owned by A Tinkler and W On 18 May 2011 the Group completed a transaction issuing 77.3m ordinary Stobart.
The Group made purchases totalling 93,000 2010: 167,000 shares at 155 pence raising net cash of 114.9m.
At the same time the Group from and sales totalling 161,000 2010: 69,000 to WA Developments acquired the remaining 50% of Stobart Biomass Products Limited for 20m International Limited.
nil 2010: 152,000 was due from and nil comprising 11m of loan notes and 5.8m shares at 155 pence per share.
2010: 135,000 was due to WA Developments International Limited at The accounting for the acquisition of Stobart Biomass Products Limited is the year end.
incomplete due to the proximity of the acquisition to the date of approval Stobart Air Limited was a subsidiary of WA Developments International of the financial statements.
The vendor, AW Jenkinson, a Director of Limited.
On 30 May 2009, Stobart Air Limited was acquired by the Group Stobart Biomass Products Limited, will remain in the business and will for 9.9m see note 11. participate in the new incentive scheme.
WA Developments International GMBH is a subsidiary of WA Developments The Group was also granted an option giving the right to purchase International Limited.
During the year, the Group made sales of 12,000 Westbury Properties Limited before mid August 2011 for a consideration 2010: 33,000 to WA Developments International GMBH of which nil based on an independent valuation.
The funds will be used to invest in 2010: 33,000 was owed to the Group at the year end.
assets which are expected to enhance the performance of the Groups Moneypenny Limited is a subsidiary of WA Developments International business divisions, in particular development of the Groups property assets.
During the year, the Group made sales of 230,000 2010: nil The Group has also implemented a senior executive incentive plan which and purchases of 237,000 2010: 250,000 from Moneypenny Limited.
covers up to 38 million Ordinary Shares which aligns the managements nil 2010: nil was owed by the Group at the year end.
