Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Stobart Group Limited We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 28 February 2011 which in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the comprise the Company Income statement, the Company Statement audited Financial Statements.
If we become aware of any apparent of Financial Position, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity, material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the the Company Cash flow statement and the related notes A to M. implications for our report.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Opinion on Financial Statements Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, as at 28 February 2011 and of its profit for the year then 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state ended: to the Companys members those matters we are required to state Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the adopted by the European Union: and fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 73 responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement where the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires us to report on page 38, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of to you in our opinion: the Parent Company Financial Statements and for being satisfied Proper accounting records have not been kept: that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit The Companys Financial Statements are not in agreement and express an opinion on the Parent Company Financial with the accounting records: or Statements in accordance with applicable law and International We have not received all the information and explanations Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require we require for our audit.
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other Matter Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 28 February 2011.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material Stuart Watson misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Manchester assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied 23 May 2011 and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
