Chief Operating OfficersReport William Stobart, COO The newly implemented restructuring programme rationalises the different elements of the business into a series of five coherent units.
Operationally this now means businesses active in transport and distribution can work more closely together: further exploiting the potential of the Groups intermodal offering.
Similarly, the Groups property assets are now managed together, whilst the business infrastructure and civil engineering works, air operations, and biomass source and supply operations each have their own divisions: ensuring smooth steering of each operation and allowing cost 11 efficiencies and synergies between related activities to be fully developed and exploited.
Within the new structure of the Group, all Eddie Stobart We hope to introduce our highly innovative extended Limited ESL businesses: General Distribution, Environmental, Envirotrailer to British roads in the second half of 2011.
The Chilled, Ireland, International, Warehousing: and Stobart Ports new design: which requires very little extra fuel, and will help are placed within the new Transport and Distribution division.
cut congestion and reduce the carbon footprint: is in the late stages of consultation, following a long process of The Rail business, formerly comprising Freight Transport, negotiation between Eddie Stobart and the Department for Infrastructure Engineering and Developments, will effectively Transport.
be split: so that Freight Transport is positioned within the Transport and Distribution Division and the Infrastructure and The addition of just two metres to the overall trailer length Developments businesses form the new Infrastructure and increases carrying capacity by as much as 20%, whilst Civil Engineering Division.
remaining within the 44 tonne gross limit.
If managed effectively, the cost per pallet cage to customers will remain the same.
Eddie Stobart Limited ESL Eddie Stobart General Distribution Eddie Stobarts advanced planning capability has allowed the Company to introduce extensive shared-user transport Our General Distribution unit is responsible for the Groups networks.
This unique, well-proven, systems-driven approach ambient transport provision.
It operates more than 1,300, 44- gives Eddie Stobart a substantial lead against its competitors: tonne, articulated and drawbar combination units.
This road delivering the levels of responsiveness, flexibility and freight capacity is supported by a comprehensive national transparency normally only associated with dedicated network of around 30 depots, that are strategically located services.
This pay as you go shared user system significantly at key transport hubs across the UK.
reduces waste and CO2 emissions, whilst improving the business profitability.
Eddie Stobart Environmental Shared user protocols and load consolidation has helped Environmental Transport was set up to service the logistics Eddie Stobart cut wasteful, expensive empty miles to a requirements of the UK forestry, wood fibre, waste wood and minimum.
As a result the Company achieves industry-leading biomass industries.
The UK produces around 40 million levels of around 83% fleet utilisation.
Additionally, the Eddie tonnes of these products each year.
Stobart model means that clients are incentivised to be more We have been quick to develop the transport potential of the efficient in their own operations, as any cost savings from new generation of environmentally responsible biomass logistics will be shared between Eddie Stobart and the client.
power stations: transporting hundreds of tonnes from the ESL operates more than 2,000 44-tonne articulated and collection and processing sites, to the growing number of low drawbar combination units, which serve the road transport carbon electricity generators, as well as the more traditional needs of many of the UKs leading names in FMCG end users of this material, such as panelboard manufacturers.
Through 2010 and 2011 we are With the acquisition of the remainder of Stobart Biomass upgrading our fleet as we take delivery of 1,000 new vehicles Products, Stobart Group will generate environmental from Scania GB.
All the new vehicles comply with the latest transport contracts worth approximately 70m per annum Euro 5 environmental standards.
in the next two to three years.
Chief Operating Officers Report 12 William Stobart, COO Chief Operating Officers Report Eddie Stobart International This site is also being developed as a major distribution hub.
Phase 1, a 500,000 square feet chilled distribution centre Our International division combines storage and transport for Tesco, was completed in 2009, there are a further 95 facilities at Lokeren in Belgium and Dublin, with offices and acres yet to be developed.
Nearby, we are also developing depots in Warrington.
This long-established division serves the Mersey Gateway Port at the junction of the Manchester Continental Europe with a dedicated fleet and a range of Ship Canal and River Mersey.
Both sites benefit from specialised trailers including walking floor and double decked, excellent road transport links via the M6, M62 and M56 multi-temperature, compartmentalised trailers.
and the  Mersey Gateway Bridge.
Eddie Stobart Ireland Stobart Ports has recently signed a three year agreement with Operations have grown strongly in the Republic of Ireland, Freightliner to receive trains from Felixstowe, Tilbury and leading to the establishment of a substantial stand-alone Southampton and now services four Felixstowe trains, one division, operated by a team with extensive experience and from Tilbury and another from Southampton each day.
knowledge of the unique Irish market.
Eddie Stobart Ireland Stobart Ports has its own fleet for container transport, has its own offices and depot located at the Port of Dublin, which has recently been increased seventy-five vehicles, including warehousing and cross-docking.
The Irish operation supported by a modernised trailer fleet of eighty new SDV 13 also maintains close links with International and the Groups sliding skeletal trailers.
wider logistics operations: benefitting from their own extensive networks of sites and transport capacity.
Stobart Biomass Eddie Stobart Chilled In March 2010, Stobart Group entered into a joint venture The Chilled Distribution business delivers temperaturewith AW Jenkinson, a leading supplier of biomass fuels in the controlled logistics solutions, tailored to match the needs of UK.
The new joint venture, Stobart Biomass Products Limited, major FMCG manufacturing and retail customers.
The sources sustainable biomass for the new generation of division handles tens of thousands of pallets each week minimum-carbon power plants.
through its cross-docking facilities located at Heywood, Transport and logistics represent the most significant element Nottingham, Newark, Alcester, Widnes and Corby.
When coupled with the fact that importation dock load reception, picking and dispatch operation is of biomass is already on the increase, it is clear there are supported by around 250 of the latest high-specification, significant benefits and synergies with the Groups own dual-compartment, multi-temperature articulated units.
Biomass contracts tend to be long-term, typically 10 to 20 years, allowing for the Eddie Stobart Warehousing efficient planning of transport assets.
Eddie Stobarts Warehousing division operates over six million In July 2010, Stobart Biomass acquired certain parts of the square feet of high quality, state-of-the-art storage facilities, business and assets of Sussex-based Amenity Horticultural strategically located around major transport hubs across the Services Limited AHS, a leading UK manufacturer and UK and beyond into Continental Europe.
Utilised by many of supplier of woodchip biomass fuel to commercial and the leading names in UK retail and manufacturing, capacity domestic users.
The acquisition brought the management encompasses the full range of chilled, ambient and specialist and execution of all existing AHS supply contracts to Stobart storage requirements.
Facilities are formatted in a variety of Biomass and instantly gave the business a leading position racked, stacked and mixed layouts, and are available to in this rapidly growing market.
Contracts are already in place customers on highly flexible terms as single, shared and multi for the supply of over 150,000 tonnes per year of biomass user formats.
supply to the renewable energy market.
Warehousing is controlled using the Groups own fullyFollowing the recent fund raising and restructuring trackable Dynamic Warehouse Management System DWMS.
programme, Stobart Group has acquired the remaining 50% The industry-leading system which encompasses the entire of the Stobart Biomass business from AW Jenkinson.
storage network utilises barcode-tracking to give clients realtime access to detailed stock data through a variety of web, Stobart Rail email and direct communication systems.
Each facility is operated 24 7 by a comprehensive team of Rail Freight highly experienced, fully trained personnel, backed-up by First launched in 2006, Stobart Rails dedicated rail freight permanently manned security and secure on-site vehicle and services represent an innovative solution to reducing carbon trailer parking.
The trains, which provide an attractive regular high volume, long distance freight transport solution, utilise Stobart Ports specially commissioned containers that are packed at the Our ports business represents the container transport, customer site before being transported to the railhead on handling and port operations arm of the Group, including the Stobart skeletal trailers.
Here the containers are transferred Mersey Multimodal Gateway 3MG.
This major inland port onto rail for transport to their destination.
operated by the Group at Widnes has direct rail access to the West Coast Mainline.
Chief Operating Officers Report Chief Operating Officers Report Since the launch of the original Daventry to Mossend service Stobart Air in 2006, the projects success has resulted in the launch of a London Southend Airport LSA is predicting passenger further three UK trains, running between five and six days growth to 2 million passengers per year by 2020. per week.
Potential routes are constantly in development, The construction projects required to make LSA a fullywith an additional Wakefield to Mossend service due to functioning regional airport by 2012 are all on target to meet commence in September 2011. their completion dates.
The new LSA rail station and car park Going forward, our rail freight operations will be positioned are now complete and the new control tower is fully within the Groups new Transport and Distribution Division.
Construction of the new passenger terminal and aircraft stands is progressing well, whilst construction of a Infrastructure Engineering prestigious new 126 bedroom hotel at the entrance of the Stobart Rails Infrastructure and Civil Engineering Division has airport has recently been granted planning permission, and become one of the UKs leading names in rail network is scheduled to commence shortly.
Operating throughout Approval of the plans to extend the runway was granted in the UK, Infrastructure Engineering is active in delivering April 2010.
When completed in Winter 2011, the extension earthworks, structures, bridge replacement, permanent way, will greatly enhance the airports business.
The will result in emergency works, drainage and lineside infrastructure works.
14 increased services, as it will enable the airport to attract This year has seen the business awarded a package of rail commercial passenger services to a variety of business and maintenance contracts from Network Rail which will see holiday destinations that are not currently served by London waterproofing work undertaken at three major rail bridges Southend Airport.
across the North West between April and December 2011.
The extended runway and the airports location outside the Under the contract we will be working on Foxfield Viaduct congested London Air Traffic Control Area, coupled with on the Cumbrian Coast line near Millom and two other excellent rail access via the new dedicated railway station, railway bridges over the M6 motorway at Knutsford and make it an ideal location to meet the demand for European Sandbach in Cheshire.
These flights will typically use Our expertise in track-related engineering is gaining wide aircraft with up to 160 seats, such as the popular Airbus 319, recognition, with an increase in national contracts and Boeing 737 and Embraer 195. continued work on Stobart Groups rail-related projects.
Passenger flights from LSA to destinations in Ireland Following the Group restructuring, the Rail Infrastructure commenced on 27 March 2011.
Operated by Aer Arann, the business will become part of the new Infrastructure and Civil new flights serve Waterford and Galway, twice daily, seven Engineering Division.
Stobart Developments In recognition of the contribution that the recently approved runway extension will make to air travel in and out of Stobart Developments is responsible for the development and London, in September 2010 LSA was awarded the European improvement of the Groups property holdings.
The Division Regions Airline Association ERA Airport Achievement concentrates on the regeneration of brownfield sites into Award for 2010 11.
Assessed by a panel of aviation experts, valuable business space, recycling often contaminated land this prestigious award signifies the best achievement by an back into use.
ERA member airport over the preceding 12 months.
LSAs Wherever possible, during redevelopment or improvement, success is based on the positive role it has played in support environmentally responsible innovations are introduced.
of future intra-European air transport operations.
These range from recycling of concrete and steelwork into hardcore and valuable scrap, through to lime stabilisation to bring make previously contaminated land suitable for construction.
Following the Group restructuring, the developments business will also be part of the new Infrastructure and Civil William Stobart, Chief Operating Officer Engineering division.
