SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 03 3 Chairmans Statement I am delighted to introduce this report to you on SuperGroups I am particularly pleased with the way in which the Board first full year as a public company.
Your Company has seen has developed during our first full year together.
The a year of rapid growth, strong financial performance and combination of our highly talented Executive team led a number of developments which lay the foundations for by Julian Dunkerton and the range of experience of the continued growth and success in the future.
The two groups work well together and our meetings are characterised by forthright The Superdry brand continues to be in demand from and challenging discussions.
There is a healthy spirit of customers, franchisees, distributors, retailers, and self-criticism: we recognise that there is much to do to landlords.
The most striking aspect of our development ensure that our brand is sustained and that the Group over the past year has been our international expansion.
delivers quality as well as growth.
We now have franchise and concession operations in 22 countries and the brand is sold in 40 countries to Wholesale We were sorry that Diane Savory resigned from her position customers.
The acquisition of SuperGroup Europe BVBA on the Board during the year.
However, we understand previously known as CNC Collections BVBA provides Dianes personal reasons for leaving and thank her for us with the additional capability to realise our potential in all she has done for SuperGroup and its predecessor Europe.
Growth in the UK remains strong while our global companies over many years.
We have not chosen to opportunity is increasingly significant.
replace Diane directly but the Nomination Committee will continually monitor the make-up of the Executive As a Board, we do not take any of this for granted.
We Committee team to ensure that we have the capacity at are focused on ensuring that Superdry remains attractive the highest level to lead the business successfully.
James Holder has a talented design team which we are continuing to expand and develop.
There Thank you for your support as investors in SuperGroup.
is a continuous and restless determination to create new There has been considerable learning for us over the past ranges, new points of difference, and to enhance our year in relation to communications with our investors and product offering.
Our messages on one or two occasions have not been as clear as they might have been.
We will endeavour We have reviewed all aspects of our infrastructure over to do better at this in the next year.
the last year and agreed a number of investments and developments.
In order to support our growth and run our The passion and spirit of our people is one of the things that business efficiently, improvements are required to our IT makes the Group special.
There are many positive aspects systems and to our merchandising, sourcing and supply of working for a rapidly growing company but it is also very chain processes.
demanding because so much changes so quickly.
I would like to thank everyone who works for SuperGroup for their The Board has focused on ensuring that SuperGroup has hard work and exceptional commitment.
the people and relevant skills for the future.
Key senior management appointments have been made across the organisation in order to support growth.
In this light we have brought in people with specific skills and sought to establish a balanced mix of entrepreneurial flair together with experience of operating in larger, more developed companies.
Peter Bamford Chairman 4 August 2011 20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 04 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 05 Performance Chief Executive Officers Review 06 - 14 Group Finance Directors Review 16 - 21 Risk 22 - 24 Operating Responsibly 25 - 27 20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
