SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 41 10 Corporate Governance Statement Their expected time commitment to SuperGroup is included in their letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of SuperGroup Plc reference provision A.
None of the existing Executive Directors holds Non-executive directorships.
During the year of reporting, the Nomination Committee had four meetings.
The Nomination Committee recommended to the Board that the appointment of an additional Non-executive Director should be deferred until the Board is in a position to identify the required skills, which remains an ongoing process.
The Board approved this recommendation, while recognising that it did not fully comply with the recommendations of provision A.
3.2 of the Code during the period covered by the Annual Report.
The Company now complies with this part of the Code, following the resignation of Diane Savory on 6 May 2011.
The principal functions of the Nomination Committee include the following: l to review the structure, size and composition of the Board and recommend changes when appropriate: l to consider and recommend succession planning for Executive and Non-executive Directors: l to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board vacancies or new positions as and when they arise: and l to evaluate the skills, experience and knowledge of Board members.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on our website at www.
During the financial year Ken McCall was appointed to the Board and was given a full induction in accordance with A.
Information and professional development Non-executive Directors meet regularly with members of the Executive Committee and members of the Senior Management team to gain first-hand experience of the business.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors make site visits to ensure that they are kept up to date with developments across the Group.
To date, all Directors have received instruction on their responsibilities as a Director from the Groups legal advisors and Companys stockbrokers.
In addition, the Board is provided with regular briefings on legislative developments.
Communication with shareholders The Company and the Group recognise the importance of communicating with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director have continued to develop a mutual understanding of objectives between the Group and institutional shareholders by making presentations after the preliminary and interim results and communicating regularly on developments.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director have arranged meetings with shareholders to gain a balanced understanding of their views and concerns and discuss strategy development and corporate governance.
The Chairman has ensured that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 22 September 2011, at which time shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, together with all other members of the Board of Directors, will be present to answer shareholder questions reference provision D. 2.3 of the Code.
Shareholders will have the opportunity to meet Non-executive Directors at additional times in the year.
Non-executive Directors are kept informed of the views of shareholders by the Executive Directors.
The full Annual Report and Financial Statements are made available to all shareholders and potential investors.
Other information about the Company and Group is made available on the website at www.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
