SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 73 16 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 16.1 Principal accounting policies continued aa Cost of sales Cost of sales comprises movements between opening and closing inventories, purchases, distribution costs, commissions payable, and other related expenses.
ab Exceptional Items Items that are material in size, unusual or infrequent in nature, are disclosed separately as exceptional items in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
The separate reporting of exceptional items, which are presented as exceptional within the relevant category in the Group statement of comprehensive income, helps to provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
The principal items which may be included as exceptional items are: l significant profit loss on the disposal of non-current assets: l impairment of property, plant and equipment: l impairment of non-current other receivables: l impairment of intangible assets: l impact on deferred tax for changes in tax rates: l the costs and benefits associated with significant corporate, financial or operational restructuring, including acquisitions and the IPO: and l charges for non-trading related bonuses and share-based payments.
ac Events occurring after the balance sheet date The values of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are adjusted if there is evidence that subsequent adjusting events warrant a modification of these values.
These adjustments are made up to the date of approval of the financial statements by the Board.
Other non-adjusting events are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements where they are material.
16.2 Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
a Adoption of accounting policy due to the related balances being immaterial in previous periods IAS 2 Inventories.
Previously, certain non-reclaimable duty and freight costs were expensed as incurred by the Group on the basis that they were not considered to be material.
In the current period, the Group has adopted a policy of including all non-reclaimable duty and freight costs incurred in getting inventories into the Groups distribution centres into the cost of inventory.
Freight costs incurred for moving inventories internally between distribution centres, stores and other locations are expensed as incurred.
In accordance with IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, a circumstance where an accounting policy is introduced to account for transactions that were not material in a prior period is not a change in accounting policy.
The application of such a policy is then made on a prospective basis and this is the approach that has been adopted by the Group.
The impact of adopting this new policy is to increase the value of inventories by 3.5m as at 1 May 2011, of which 1.6m relates to all prior periods, of which 0.2m relates to the previous financial year.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
