SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 69 16 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 16.1 Principal accounting policies continued Wholesale revenue Wholesale revenues from the sale of goods and provision of services are recognised at the point that the risks and rewards of the inventory have passed to the customer, which depends on the specific terms and conditions of sales transactions and which are typically upon either dispatch or delivery.
Revenues are settled in cash, net of discounts.
Provisions are made for Wholesale credit notes based on the expected level of returns, which in turn is based upon the historical rate of returns.
g Other income Other income relates to proceeds from legal claims and royalty income.
Royalty income is recognised gross on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the Wholesale royalty agreements.
Royalty income earned by the Wholesale segment from the Retail segment is eliminated on consolidation being an intercompany transaction.
h Finance income Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested.
Finance income is recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method.
i Finance expenses Finance expenses comprise interest payable on interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Finance expenses are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method.
j Leasing and similar commitments Assets funded through finance leases and similar hire purchase contracts are capitalised as property, plant and equipment, where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
Upon initial recognition, the leased asset is measured at the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Future instalments under such leases, net of financing costs, are included within interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Rental payments are apportioned between the finance element, which is included in finance costs, and the capital element which reduces the outstanding obligation for future instalments so as to give a constant charge on the outstanding obligation.
All other leases are accounted for as operating leases and the rental charges are charged to the Group statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Lease incentives are received in the form of cash contributions and rent-free periods and are considered financing activities for the purposes of the cash flow statement, as they are the same as financing from landlords to fund store fit-outs.
Cash contributions Cash contributions from landlords for store fit-outs are initially recognised as a deferred income liability on the balance sheet at the point the recognition criteria in the lease is met, and credited to selling, general and administrative expenses in the Group statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease commencing from opening date.
Cash contributions are not discounted.
Rent free periods A deferred income liability is built up on the balance sheet during the rent-free period, which is then credited to the Group statement of comprehensive income over the life of the lease.
The effect is to recognise a reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses on a straight-line basis over the longer of the term of the lease, or from property access date to the end of the lease.
Rent free periods are not discounted.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
