72 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 16 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 16.1 Principal accounting policies continued u Share based payments The Group operates an equity settled share based compensation plan.
The fair value of the shares under such plans is recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income.
Fair value is determined using the BlackScholes Option Pricing Model.
The amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of share incentives excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are considered as part of the assumptions about the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
The impact of the revision on original estimates, if any, is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, with a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
v Trade and other payables Trade and other payables, excluding lease incentives see note 16.1j, are non-interest bearing and are initially recognised at their fair value which approximates book value.
Trade and other payables are fide-recognised when the contractual obligations to the cash flows from the liability expire or are transferred.
w Taxation The policy for current and deferred tax, when relevant, is as follows: l tax on the profit or loss for the period will comprise current and deferred tax: l current income tax expense is calculated using the tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, adjusted for any tax paid in respect of prior years: l deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes: l the amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date: and l a deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Due to the prior period LLP structure of the Group, current and deferred tax had previously been nil.
Income tax payable on the profits of the LLPs is solely the personal liability of the individual members of those LLPs and is not dealt with in these financial statements.
x Dividends In the future, dividends will be recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before or on the balance sheet date.
Dividends will be disclosed when they have been proposed before the balance sheet date or proposed or declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are approved for issue by the Directors.
y Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity, as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
z Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision-Maker.
The Chief Operating Decision-Maker, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board.
