70 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 16 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 16.1 Principal accounting policies continued k Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and reviewed annually for impairment.
Cost includes the original purchase price and the costs attributable to bringing the asset into its working condition but excludes interest.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write down the cost of the assets, less their estimated residual values, over their remaining useful economic lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years on a straight-line basis Leasehold improvements 5 7 years on a straight-line basis Furniture, fixtures and fittings 5 7 years on a straight-line basis Computer equipment 3 5 years on a straight-line basis Motor vehicles 25% on a reducing balance basis Land is not depreciated.
Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
l Impairment The carrying values of non-financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated.
Cash generating units are considered to be each store for standalone stores, and the concessions, internet and wholesale divisions.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows which are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is estimated.
The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell, and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income whenever the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
m Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are recognised initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives as follows: Trademarks 10 years Website and software 5 years Distribution agreements 6 years Trademark costs comprise the external cost of registration and associated legal costs.
Website and software costs consist primarily of externally incurred development costs.
Distribution agreements comprise the fair value, at date of acquisition, of distribution agreements acquired as part of a business combination.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
n Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at their fair value and remeasured at fair value at each period end.
Derivative financial instruments are categorised as held for trading.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has not applied hedge accounting.
Foreign forward exchange derivative gains and losses are recognised in selling, general and administrative expenses or other gains and losses.
Supplier derivatives are recognised in cost of sales.
Movements on derivative financial instruments are disclosed separately on the face of the Group statement of comprehensive income as the Directors believe it is helpful to understand the performance of the business excluding movements on financial derivatives.
