SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 71 16 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 16.1 Principal accounting policies continued o Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost comprises costs associated with the purchase and bringing of inventories to their current location and condition and is based on the weighted average principle.
Provisions are made for obsolescence, mark-downs and shrinkage.
p Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less impairment losses.
A provision for the impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due, according to the original terms.
Significant financial difficulties of the customer, probability that the customer will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
q Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity date of three months or less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, less overdrafts, which are repayable on demand.
r Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value net of transaction costs, including facility fees incurred, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is obtained at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is remeasured at origination to its fair value, which is calculated as future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the borrowings is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss, and the amortisation is recorded as finance income cost using the effective interest yield method on the asset liability.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments issued by the Group comprise convertible loan notes that can either be repaid in cash, or be converted to share capital at the option of the Group.
These financial instruments are recognised in equity in other reserves at fair value.
Loan notes with no option to be converted to share capital and that will be repaid in cash, are recognised in liabilities.
s Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Provisions for dilapidations are provided when the Group becomes obligated and the liability can be reliably estimated.
t Employee benefit obligations The Group operates a stakeholder pension scheme for the benefit of its employees.
The Group has not contributed into any pension scheme.
Payroll expense and related contributions Wages, salaries, payroll tax, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
