66 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 16 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 16.1 Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation The financial statements of SuperGroup Plc the Company and SuperGroup Plc and its subsidiary undertakings in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Belgium, France and Netherlands, as detailed in note 16.22 the Group have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by fair values, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union, and IFRICs, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies note 16.2.
This note includes details of adoption of a new accounting policy in the year.
Net debt analysis as set out in note 16.32, which is a non-GAAP measure, has been provided as it is considered to be useful to the reader.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand except where indicated.
b Restructuring In the period up to 7 March 2010, the Group comprised SuperGroup Holdings LLP and its subsidiary undertakings: Cult Retail LLP and Laundry Athletics LLP.
On 30 November 2009, SuperGroup Holdings LLP retired as a member in its subsidiaries with the replacement members of those subsidiaries being the existing members in SuperGroup Holdings LLP.
SuperGroup Plc was never a member of SuperGroup Holdings LLP.
On 7 March 2010, in advance of the Initial Public Offering, the Group underwent a restructuring as follows: l the members capital accounts in Laundry Athletics LLP were converted into loan notes to be settled in cash with the relevant members.
On the same date, the LLP sold its trade and assets and assumed liabilities to DKH Retail Limited at fair value of 187,120,720 in consideration of which the members of the LLP received 117,741,124 shares of 1 each, and loan notes of 69,379,596 in DKH Retail Limited.
These loan notes had an option to allow the Group to settle in a fixed number of shares and hence were classified as equity in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments Presentation: l the members capital accounts in Cult Retail LLP were converted into loans to be settled in cash with the relevant members.
On the same date, the LLP sold its trade and assets and assumed liabilities to SuperGroup Limited at a fair value of 152,258,876, in consideration of which the members of the LLP received 152,258,876 shares of 1 each in the Company.
The entire trade and assets were then transferred into four newly created subsidiaries of SuperGroup Limited, being C-Retail Limited, SuperGroup Concessions Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Retail Ireland Limited: and l SuperGroup Limited undertook a capital reduction of its 270,000,100 shares from 1 per share to one pence per share and, as a result, 267,300,099 was transferred from share capital to retained earnings.
A share consolidation then took place to convert the 270,000,100 ordinary one pence shares into 54,000,020 ordinary five pence shares.
Before and after the restructuring detailed above, the entities were all under common control and therefore the business combinations were outside the scope of IFRS 3 revised.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidation of the subsidiaries acquired in advance of the Initial Public Offering C-Retail Limited, Cult Retail LLP, DKH Retail Limited, Laundry Athletics LLP, SuperGroup Concessions Limited, SuperGroup International Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Retail Ireland Limited into the financial statements of SuperGroup Plc have been prepared under the principles of predecessor accounting, whereby an acquirer is not required to be identified, and all entities are included at their pre-combination carrying amounts.
This accounting treatment leads to differences on consolidation between consideration and fair value of the underlying net assets and this difference is included within equity as a merger reserve note 15.4.
All subsequent business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting note 16.1d.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 67 16 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 16.1 Principal accounting policies continued Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group has power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
In preparing the financial information up to 7 March 2010, the financial statements of the individual entities were combined on a line-by-line basis by adding together like items of assets, liabilities, equity and income and expenses.
Balances, transactions and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between the combined and consolidated entities, including their subsidiaries, were eliminated in full.
From 7 March 2010, the Group has consolidated the individual entities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Share capital Under predecessor accounting, the Group has elected to include the whole prior period statement of comprehensive income rather than from the restructuring date.
When this election is taken, the Group must include the acquired entitys results and capital structure, as if the Group had always existed in this form, even though the business combination did not occur until the 7 March 2010.
This comprises only the issued and fully paid share capital of 2,700,000 note 15.4.
Retained earnings The Group has adopted IAS 32 revised and hence where the features and conditions of the financial liabilities in the LLP agreement meet the definition of puttable instrument as defined by IAS 32 revised, these financial liabilities were presented as equity in other reserves.
A puttable instrument is a financial instrument that gives the holder the right to put the instrument back to the issuer for cash or another financial asset or is automatically put back to the issuer on the occurrence of an uncertain future event or the death or retirement of the instrument holder.
This includes a contractual obligation for the issuer in this case the LLPs to repurchase or redeem that instrument for cash or another asset on exercise of the put option.
Retained earnings up to and including 7 March 2010 represents the members capital accounts in Cult Retail LLP and Laundry Athletics LLP under IFRS.
This represents the accumulation of profits in those LLPs plus capital introduced, less accumulated drawings.
From 8 March 2010 onwards, the retained earnings reflects the accumulated profits and losses of the Group.
Other reserves The convertible loan notes issued by the Company are classified as equity as there is no contractual obligation for the Company to deliver cash or any other financial asset under the terms of the loan note.
All loan notes were settled before 2 May 2010.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the differences on consolidation arising on the adoption of predecessor accounting.
This comprises the difference between consideration paid and the book value of net assets acquired in the transaction.
Initial Public Offering IPO of SuperGroup Plc On 24 March 2010, SuperGroup Plc listed 25,000,000 ordinary shares of five pence each on the London Stock Exchange at a consideration of 5 per share.
This raised 125,000,000 in proceeds, with 1,250,000 being recorded in share capital and 123,750,000 in share premium.
Costs directly attributable to the listing of 3,612,000 were offset against the share premium account arising on this transaction.
105,000,000 of the proceeds were used to repay the loan notes that were issued as part of the Group restructuring.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
