22 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 6 Risk Principal risks and uncertainties In accordance with the Combined Code 2008 the Code, the Board understands the need for a robust system of internal control and risk management.
Following a review of risks to the Group, a further assessment of the key risks and uncertainties facing the Group has been undertaken.
This is reviewed on a regular basis at Executive Committee and Board level.
The Directors consider the following matters to be the principal risks and uncertainties to the Group.
These may not be exhaustive and there might be additional unknown risks that could have an adverse effect on the Group: n External Changing fashion trends Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The Group may fail to respond The Group may experience inventory The Group will continue to design new in a timely fashion to changes in shortages or excesses that could and innovative products, and will ensure consumer preferences or additionally, result in lost revenue and customer a high level of market awareness and fail to anticipate increased consumer goodwill.
understanding of fashion and consumer demand for its products.
trends by carrying out market research, visits to trade fairs and product research.
The Group is constantly refreshing and updating its product range and this assists in differentiating the product to meet evolving consumer needs.
The Group bears a risk of unfavourable changes in currency exchanges despite its forward foreign exchange contracts Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The Group is potentially vulnerable The Groups operating results The Group has a documented foreign to adverse movements in exchange become unpredictable due to exchange policy and maintains constant rates.
It pays for a large proportion of changes in exchange rates that are management oversight, including monthly its goods and receives a proportion outside our control.
Board review of foreign exchange exposure of its revenues in foreign currency.
The Groups policy is to hedge these risks by using forward foreign exchange contracts.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 23 6 Risk n Internal The significant growth of the Group puts pressure on key resources Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Growth will depend on the ability Failure to manage the pace of The Groups strategic objectives are of the Group to expand operations change effectively could impact on reviewed continually for their impact on the and to develop its supply base, the Groups financial results.
The process of investment Group infrastructure and people.
The Group may not be able to effectively control and monitor its suppliers to comply with labour, employment and other laws Risk description Potential impact Mitigation While the Group requires its suppliers There is potential for the Group The Group will engage with its supply base to operate in compliance with local to suffer negative customer to operate in accordance with its ethical and international legislation and and stakeholder sentiment with trading code of practice.
The Group will with an internationally accepted associated impact on customer assess the status of operating practices code of practice, it may not be and investor appeal.
through a schedule of focused audits and able to control these manufacturers work with suppliers, where necessary, on and so cannot ensure absolute improvement plans.
Business interruption at the Groups distribution centres Risk description Potential impact Mitigation As a major retail and wholesale There is potential for the Group The Group recognises the reliance it has business, the Group relies on to suffer loss or damage to stock on its distribution centres and has invested the effective operation of its holding and disruption to its store and in a number of major improvements to distribution centres which could customer replenishment capability.
protect these facilities and will continue to be disrupted through a major do so.
Where the Group utilises third party incident such as a fire.
storage services, which will provide some additional contingency, it ensures that standards are appropriate and regularly monitored.
Loss of a key factory or supplier at a critical point in the design and manufacturing process that leaves no time to arrange alternative sources of supply Risk description Potential impact Mitigation As the Group grows, it is crucial If the Group fails to manage its The Group has a number of long-standing that a robust, flexible and cost supply base effectively, or events and closely monitored relationships with effective supply base meets the occur that are outside its control, suppliers with whom it continually seeks Groups needs for volume growth, product volume, delivery and ways to improve capability, and has quality, timeliness and accuracy.
quality issues may arise with actively developed its supply base to associated reputational damage build dual sourcing capability and reduce The Group may potentially lose, at within its customer base.
over-reliance on single suppliers and a critical time, one or more of its factories.
suppliers, through a break down in the contractual relationship, the supplier being no longer commercially viable, or as the result of a major incident.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 24 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 6 Risk n Internal continued The Groups disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The Group depends on the Should any of these facilities be The Group continues to invest in availability of its facilities both damaged or lost the Groups ability improving the protection of its business, in-house and outsourced and to trade will be impaired.
and the IT systems will be replaced over the performance, reliability and the next 24 months.
The Group requires availability of its information that third parties have robust contingency technology and communications plans in place.
Any damage or denial of access to these systems could disrupt operations.
Loss of key individuals Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The Group will always carry the There could be significant focus The Directors have made a number of risk of the loss of one or more of from investors and stakeholders senior appointments and will continue the Executive Directors or senior relating to our ability to maintain to do so, to provide strength across the managers.
and expand the brand and Group.
In particular, the loss of Julian Dunkerton and or James Holder, who are both held to be synonymous with the Superdry brand, would potentially be of greater significance.
Breach of intellectual property and counterfeit product Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The retail clothing and fashion Copied or counterfeit Superdry Working with third party services the industry and, in particular, iconic branded products, with inferior quality Group constantly monitors its supply chain brands such as Superdry, will and design, reach both existing and and the global sales of Superdry branded continually be a target for both future sales territories with a potential product by unlicensed parties, taking large and small scale counterfeit to damage brand integrity.
necessary action to both stop, and where operations.
possible, take proceedings against them.
Infringement by the Group of third Additionally, the Group must actively party copyright may result in costly monitor and assess its designs to legal proceedings and damages.
ensure that it does not infringe the copyright of others.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 25 7 Operating Responsibly How we strive to be a responsible business This year we have: SuperGroup as a conscientious and forward looking company, All references in this section exclude SuperGroup Europe BVBA.
is committed to pursuing the highest standards of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability.
It is part of our Group strategy.
l redefined our ethical trading terms of engagement to ensure that all product suppliers understand the social We recognise the commercial value, as well as the moral and environmental conditions under which our products duty, of consistently operating with integrity, honesty and a should be produced: commitment to responsible and ethical business practices.
l implemented an ongoing programme to visit our We take responsibility not only for ethical standards within suppliers and met with key personnel to discuss the our supply chain but also the natural environment, the opportunities and barriers for performance improvement communities we operate in, and the health and well-being against our Ethical Trading Code of Practice: of our employees.
l identified measures for retrofitting existing stores with We recognise that to embed these philosophies deep technologies to reduce energy consumption: within the Group is a challenge and that we cannot do it l designed a new lighting system at our distribution centre alone.
Collaborations and partnerships, both locally and with energy efficiency in mind, providing a greater level globally, play a vital role.
of light for warehouse operatives, with a 39% carbon footprint reduction saving 47 tonnes of CO each year 2 Across all areas of our Group we continue to make progress which has paid back the initial investment in less than six in applying such standards and in communicating our months: and values to employees and business partners alike.
l assisted the local community in which we operate.
We How we do this now sponsor a scheme to educate young people to get them back into work and have committed to developing During the year of reporting, Corporate Responsibility community areas in Gloucestershire, the location of our matters were led at Board level by Diane Savory, who head office and main source of employment.
departed from the Group on 6 May 2011.
These have now been taken up by Julian Dunkerton, CEO.
Ethical trading The Group support functions deliver the wider corporate We recognise that we have a responsibility to everybody responsibility framework.
In addition to health and involved in bringing our products to market.
Our aim is to safety, public relations PR and communications, human promote fair and safe working conditions, in line with our resources HR and customer services, this group includes own values, throughout the supply chain.
a dedicated Sustainability team committed to delivering environmental and ethical progress.
Its philosophy is to engage all departments in the drive to become a more SuperGroup has adopted the Ethical Trade Initiative base responsible business.
code, founded on the principles and conventions of the International Labour Organisation ILO, as our Ethical We use newsletters, roadshows and training programmes Trading Code of Practice Code of Practice.
to communicate this message to our employees and we encourage active feedback through surveys and dedicated We use this Code of Practice and the SuperGroup Ethical contact points.
For example, at this years HR Roadshow Trading Policy, signed and endorsed by the Board of store managers joined in lively discussions on ethical Directors, to clarify with our suppliers which working trading within our supply chain.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
