26 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 7 Operating Responsibly Our fundamental principle is to work collaboratively with We acknowledge that managing our resources carefully provides an opportunity to reduce costs, and the suppliers who acknowledge the need for and continuously environmental impact and climate change and other global improve, standards in line with these policies.
However, environmental incidents are a risk to our raw material there are immediate minimum requirements we expect to supplies that should be properly considered.
be met on key issues such as child labour, forced labour and inhumane treatment.
Because of this, we will integrate environmental considerations into all aspects of the Group, so that To support development within this area we have joined the environmental impact reduction becomes part of our core Ethical Trading Initiative ETI a ground-breaking alliance business decision making and evaluation procedures.
Our of companies, trade unions and voluntary organisations complete Environmental Policy Statement is available and committed to improving the lives of workers across the communicated to internal and external stakeholders.
Since the year end, we have been approved as a Foundation Stage member of the ETI, allowing us to Climate change impacts benefit from the wealth of experience and providing the opportunity to collaborate with other members.
Along with those already identified in this report we have achieved the following: So far we have: l established a carbon footprint for 2010 11 to identify l communicated and discussed our Code of Practice and where savings are being made and where there are ethical requirements with all first tier suppliers: opportunities for further reductions: l requested that all suppliers register on SEDEX the l committed to purchasing 100% of the Groups UK Supplier and Ethical Data Exchange, an online data electricity from renewable energy sources: sharing portal, and complete the inbuilt self assessment l established new lower carbon stores, such as on ethical trading conditions.
This will help us to achieve Meadowhall, which now uses up to half the lighting visibility of ethical conditions in our supply chain: energy than comparable stores in the Group: and l used an independent company to audit suppliers for l a drive for better recycling has seen landfill emissions conformity to our Code of Practice: and from waste decrease by 30% despite business growth.
l prioritised an ongoing schedule of audits.
At the date of this report audits completed covered the majority of our We have partnered with organisations on a number product supply base.
of interesting and valuable carbon reduction projects including: Environmental sustainability We accept that as a retailer and wholesaler of clothing, l engaging the Carbon Trust to identify further energy saving opportunities in our stores: footwear and accessories we impact on the local and global natural environment in a number of ways.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 27 7 Operating Responsibly l being an active member of Cheltenham Borough Health and safety Councils Low Carbon Partnership, tasked with reducing As a key priority, SuperGroup continues to work towards carbon dioxide emissions in local businesses: and creating a healthy and safe environment for employees, l assisting the University of Gloucestershire on a research customers and all business partners.
SuperGroup is project to understand the link between employee committed to meeting all relevant health and safety psychology and commitment to energy saving.
legislation, and approved Codes of Practice provided by the Health and Safety Executive.
To give the Board the necessary assurance that this is the case there is a formal health and Waste and recycling safety audit and assessment process, conducted by trained 2011 saw the roll-out of a recycling system in partnership staff, that ensures all our premises are assessed on a regular with two local waste management businesses, across all and frequent basis.
In our drive for reducing waste to landfill sites we have: Additionally, during the year, there have been a number of visits by regional enforcement bodies, with no recommendations l set up systems at our distribution centres to recycle for improvements to systems or processes, and minimal 100% of all packaging waste from inbound stock: suggestions for improvement to operational practices.
l introduced comprehensive recycling schemes in all office buildings leading to waste management cost To further strengthen this area, a Health and Safety Manager savings and environmental benefits: was appointed in June 2010 who continues to develop the control systems with a supporting training programme.
l implemented systems to shred and recycle unwanted or faulty products enabling the raw materials to be used for Employees are provided with the health and safety policy and other purposes such as insulation: and given comprehensive training where relevant.
l identified key recycling opportunities for stores.
During the year we have trained 200 members of staff in People health and safety, to a standard accredited by the British Safety Council.
We firmly believe that the success of our Group is a direct result of the knowledge, skills, drive, passion and We will enhance our effectiveness by the development of enthusiasm of our people.
a health and well-being policy for all employees.
We have recently implemented an employee assistance programme From its earliest days, the culture of the Group has been to that offers a 24 hour helpline and web portal giving access create and maintain an environment where individuals are to counselling, health and well-being programmes and legal involved, have a sense of belonging and can flourish and advice.
Timely and appropriate communication is a key factor and the Group strives at all times to keep Whistleblowing employees informed on matters affecting them and the Group, including financial and economic factors.
This is During the financial year we introduced a confidential achieved both formally and informally.
whistleblowing policy so that employees are able to raise concerns about inappropriate behaviour or actions should During the financial year a number of senior appointments they arise in the workplace.
have been made and some of these are set out on page 13 of the Chief Executive Officers Report.
Charitable donations We have made the following commitments to charitable At the year end our headcount stands at 1,899, compared causes: with 1,095 at the 2010 year-end.
This shows the significant investment that the Group has made during the year, l a donation of 25,000 to a local charity that helps building up a team of people across all areas of our Group young people develop their skills so that they can find to support growth.
It does this by using a combination of sports and presentation skills training to improve their confidence To encourage wider share ownership it is proposed that a and skill set.
This was made during the financial year: Save As You Earn scheme will be introduced, subject to l since the end of the financial year the Company has approval by shareholders at the AGM in September 2011. donated 25,000 to the Japanese Earthquake Disaster Fund: and To assist with ensuring that employees have the opportunity to grow within the Group we have introduced specific l committed to the Cheltenham in Bloom project by training courses to develop leadership and management supporting a plan for providing sustainable planting in local skills.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 28 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 29 Governance Board of Directors 30 - 31 Directors Report 32 - 35 Corporate Governance Statement 38 - 42 Audit Committee Report 43 - 45 Directors Remuneration Report 48 - 53 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 55 20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
