68 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 16 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 16.1 Principal accounting policies continued d Business combinations The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations of entities not under common control.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment.
Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments.
Cost also includes direct attributable costs of investment.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
Movements in the fair value of contingent consideration and fair value uplift to inventory are disclosed on the face of the statement of comprehensive income as the Directors believe it is helpful to understand the performance of the business excluding these items.
e Foreign currencies The consolidated financial information is presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Resulting exchange gains and losses are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Upon consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items of foreign operations are translated at the actual rate or average rate if not materially different.
Differences on translation are recognised as a separate equity reserve.
f Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for goods supplied, stated net of discounts, returns and value added taxes.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Groups activities, as described below.
The Group bases its estimate of return on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement.
Standalone store revenue Standalone store revenue from the provision of sale of goods is recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer.
Standalone store sales are settled in cash or by credit or payment card.
It is the Groups policy to sell its products to the customer with a right to exchange within 28 days.
Concession revenue Concession revenues from the provision of sale of goods are recognised gross at the point of sale of a product to the customer.
Concession revenues are settled in cash, by the concession grantors net of commissions or other fees payable.
It is the concessions policy to sell its products with a right to exchange within 28 days and a cash refund within 14 days.
Internet revenue Revenue from the provision of the sale of goods on the internet is recognised at the point that the risks and rewards of the inventory have passed to the customer, which is the point of despatch.
Transactions are settled by credit or payment card.
Provisions are made for internet credit notes based on the expected level of returns, which in turn is based upon the historical rate of returns.
