SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 39 10 Corporate Governance Statement The Board receives appropriate and timely information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive were set out in writing and agreed by the Board in March 2010 in accordance with provision A.
The Non-executive Directors meet with the Chairman separately from time to time, without the Executive Directors present.
During the year of reporting, the Non-executive Directors have met without the Chairman present to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
This review was led by the Senior Independent Director.
All members of the Board of Directors, and the sub-committees, have sufficient resources and a budget set aside to allow access to independent advice as required.
For Non-executive Directors a relevant clause is included in their letters of appointment setting out the required time commitment.
These were in place throughout the year.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board, as set out in the Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board.
Operational matters, trading performance and the development of proposals for the Board, where required under the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, are controlled by an Executive Committee that consists of the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Brand Design Director and the Chief Executive Officer Wholesale and International.
The Executive Committee has met regularly throughout the year and has a schedule of meetings for the year ahead.
Since the year end, the membership of this committee has changed with the addition of Head of e-Commerce and the Head of European Business Development.
Board committees The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain duties, and these are detailed below.
Each of these committees is chaired by a separate chairman and has written terms of reference available on the website, www.
Minutes are prepared for each of these meetings by the Company Secretary and presented at the following respective meetings for approval.
All committees have sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Audit Committee: Steven Glew Chairman Ken McCall Indira Thambiah Remuneration Committee: Keith Edelman Chairman Steven Glew Indira Thambiah Nomination Committee: Peter Bamford Chairman Keith Edelman Julian Dunkerton Performance evaluation A Board evaluation to assess the performance of the Board, its Non-executive Directors and committees was carried out in March 2011 in accordance with the Combined Code A.
This involved the use of a questionnaire to all Directors and covered a range of issues around Board and committee processes, Board roles and responsibilities.
This will be repeated annually and it is intended that every three years this process will be carried out by an independent third party.
The performance of the Executive Directors during the period of reporting was monitored by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman.
Share capital Details of the issued share capital, together with details of movements in the issued share capital of the Company during the year are shown in note 16.34 which is deemed to be part of this report.
20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
