SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 35 9 Directors Report We have introduced a Long Term Incentive Plan for certain executives as a way of encouraging involvement and association with the long term success of the Group.
At the Annual General Meeting, we will be seeking shareholder approval for the introduction of a Save As You Earn SAYE scheme to give employees the chance to buy shares in the Company at a discounted value.
During the year, a whistleblowing policy was developed so that employees are able to raise concerns without fear of reprisal.
Equality and diversity are fundamental values supported by SuperGroup.
The Group has an equal opportunities policy and takes its responsibilities under that policy very seriously.
In addition, the Company and the Group give full and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled people.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that the appropriate training is arranged as necessary.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of a disabled person should, as far as possible, be identical to that of a person who does not suffer from a disability.
The Group strives to keep employees closely informed about matters of importance to them, whether financial or business, through an open culture of trust and two-way communication.
This is complemented by a mix of informal briefings and electronic media, and will be enhanced by the introduction of a Group intranet later this year.
Health and safety The Group is committed to providing a safe place for employees to work and customers to shop.
Group policies are reviewed on an on-going basis to ensure that those regarding training, risk assessments, safe systems of working and accident management are appropriate.
As part of this process, a full Group audit programme has been introduced to ensure that health, safety, environmental and security risks are stringently assessed and that robust control measures are in place to limit these risks.
A summary of the achievements in this area is contained in section 7 on pages 25 to 27 under Operating Responsibly.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each Director who held office on the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
Furthermore, each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of the Groups information.
Auditors The Directors will put a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to reappoint  LLP as auditors for the ensuing year.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Cheltenham Ladies College, Bayshill Road, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, GL50 3EP on 22 September 2011 commencing at 11.30am.
The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting is included in the separate circular to shareholders.
This Notice is available to view under the Investor Centre section of the Companys website www.
By order of the Board Wendy Edwards Company Secretary 4 August 2011 Registered Office: Unit 60 The Runnings Cheltenham Gloucestershire GL51 9NW Registered Number: 07063562 20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 36 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 37 20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
