Printing and paper: this report has been printed in the UK by The Colourhouse.
They are accredited with ISO14001, hold full FSC chain of custody, they are also carbon neutral.
All inks used are vegetable-based.
The paper used is Heaven 42 which is fully recyclable and biodegradable and is an FSC mixed sources accredited material, using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process and is partly bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process.
One of Synthomers Litex P Polymers was used in the manufacture of this paper.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or recycle it.
Designed and produced by The College www.
com Other information Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 99 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES Effective Country of Group interest incorporation in equity Operating companies and operation % # Arkem Pty Ltd South Africa 50 Distributor of specialty chemicals and allied products # Eka Synthomer Oy Finland 50 Styrene-butadiene latex products PolymerLatex Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Synthetic rubber latices Quality Polymer Sdn Bhd Malaysia 70 Acrylic and vinyl polymer dispersions Revertex Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 70 Synthetic resin and emulsions, natural rubber latices, plasticers and allied products Synthomer BV Netherlands 100 Latex based compounds Synthomer Chemicals Pty Ltd South Africa 100 Synthetic resin and emulsions and allied products Synthomer Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 Synthetic rubber latices and emulsions Synthomer GmbH Germany 100 Synthetic rubber latices Synthomer Ltd England 100 Synthetic rubber latices and emulsions, latex based compounds, polyvinyl alcohol acetate and liquid polybutadine # Synthomer Middle East Company Saudi Arabia 49 Acrylic and vinyl resin emulsions Synthomer SAE Egypt 88 Latex based compounds Malaysia 100 Synthomer Sdn Bhd Synthetic rubber latices Synthomer S. r. l. Italy 100 Synthetic rubber latices and acrylic polymer dispersions Synthomer Vietnam Co. Ltd Vietnam 60 Acrylic and vinyl emulsions William Blythe Ltd England 100 Inorganic chemicals Holding companies Holliday Chemical Holdings England 100 Yule Catto Financing Ltd Ireland 100 Yule Catto Holdings GmbH Germany 100 Yule Catto Nederland BV Netherlands 100 # Joint ventures.
Shares held by Yule Catto & Co plc.
