Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 89 Notes to the company financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The Company was incorporated on 15 December 2009, this is the first set of Statutory accounts that have been prepared, accordingly these have been prepared for the period from 15 December 2009 to 31 March 2011.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Details of the considerations undertaken by the Directors in reaching this conclusion are set out on page 19 within the Finance review.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the period.
Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are recorded at cost, being the fair value of consideration, acquisition charges associated with the investment and capital contributions by way of share-based payments, less any provision for impairment.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Loans and other borrowings Loans and other borrowings represent committed and uncommitted bank loans, and bank overdrafts.
These are initially measured at fair value which is equal to cost at inception, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
Bank fees and legal costs associated with the securing of external financing are capitalised and amortised over the term of the relevant facility.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issuance costs.
Share-based payments The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant, and expensed over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Binomial model for share-based payments with internal performance criteria such as EPS targets and a Monte Carlo model for those with external performance criteria such as TSR targets.
For schemes with non-market performance criteria, the number of options expected to vest is recalculated at each balance sheet date, based on expectations of performance against target and of leavers prior to vesting.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in reserves.
For schemes with market performance criteria, the number of options expected to vest is adjusted only for expectations of leavers prior to vesting.
Share-based payments issued by the Company to its subsidiary undertakings are treated as additions to investments based on the fair value of the grant, spread over the relevant vesting period, with corresponding credit to reserves.
Where the Company recharges the cost of share-based payments to its subsidiary undertaking the investment is reduced accordingly.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date, with the following exception: TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 90 Notes to the company financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis with the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The taxation liabilities of certain Group companies are reduced wholly or in part by the surrender of losses by fellow Group companies.
Dividends Dividends receivable from the Companys subsidiaries and joint venture investments are recognised only when they are approved by Shareholders.
Final dividend distributions to the Companys Shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys Shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid.
Directors The Directors remuneration was borne by another Group company and not recharged.
Detailed disclosures of the Directors remuneration and share based payments are given in the audited section of the Directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 38 and should be regarded as an integral part of this note.
Employees The Company has no employees.
Exemptions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures not to provide details of related party transactions with other Group companies, as the Company financial statements are presented together with the consolidated Group financial statements.
The Company has applied the exemption under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures so as not to disclose details of financial instruments held by the Company.
Full disclosure of the Groups financial instruments recognised under FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is provided in note 19 to the Groups annual report and accounts.
Loss for the period As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the period.
The Company reported a loss of 10m for the period ended 31 March 2011.
The auditors remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in the Corporate governance report on page 29.
Dividends 2011 m Interim dividend for the period ended 31 March 2011 of 1.70p per ordinary share 15 Total ordinary dividends 15 Final dividend for period ended 31 March 2011 of 3.90p per ordinary share 35 The final dividend for the period ended 31 March 2011 was approved by the Board on 18 May 2011 and has not been included as a liability as at 31 March 2011.
The expected cost of this dividend reflects the fact that the Group ESOT has agreed to waive its rights to receive dividends.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 91 4.
Non-current asset investments 2011 m Subsidiaries 991 Joint venture 5 996 2011 m Cost and net book value Opening balance at 15 December 2009 Additions 996 At 31 March 2011 996 On 26 March 2010 the Company became the owner of the entire issued share capital of CPW, that owns the entire issued share capital of TalkTalk Group Limited, the holding company of the Groups fixed line telecommunications companies in the UK.
The investment was received by the Company as consideration for shares issued to the former Shareholders of CPW as part of the demerger transaction.
Joint venture On 10 September 2010 the Group entered into a joint venture agreement with The British Broadcasting Corporation, ITV Broadcasting Limited, British Telecom PLC, Channel Four Television Corporation, Arqiva Limited and Channel 5 Broadcasting Limited to form YouView TV Limited formerly Canvas Pro Tem Limited.
The joint venture has been established in order to develop a new free-to-air internet-connected TV service to UK homes in 2012.
Further detail relating to the joint venture are disclosed within note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal Group investments The Company has investments in the following subsidiary undertakings.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
All holdings are in equity share capital.
Country of incorporation Name or registration Percentage ownership Nature of business TalkTalk Telecom Holdings Limited England and Wales 100% Holding company TalkTalk Group Limited England and Wales 100% Holding company Onetel Telecommunications Limited England and Wales 100% Telecommunications TalkTalk Communications Limited formerly Opal Telecom Limited England and Wales 100% Telecommunications TalkTalk Telecom Limited England and Wales 100% Telecommunications TalkTalk Direct Limited England and Wales 100% Telecommunications TalkTalk UK Communication Services Limited England and Wales 100% Telecommunications GIS Telecoms Limited England and Wales 100% Telecommunications CPW Network Services Limited England and Wales 100% Telecommunications Tiscali UK Limited England and Wales 100% Telecommunications Directly held TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 92 Notes to the company financial statements continued 5.
Debtors: amounts due within one year 2011 m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 485 Other debtors 2 487 Interest on intercompany funding is calculated at the Bank of England base rate plus 3.75%: intercompany deposits receive interest at the Bank of England base rate with no margin.
Interest is either paid or capitalised monthly as appropriate.
Where they exist, currency balances are calculated at similar rates.
Interest is not charged on balances arising between Group companies as a result of intercompany trading: such balances are settled regularly in line with agreed terms of trade, usually through the Groups netting system, within 30 to 60 days.
Creditors: amounts due within one year 2011 m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 122 122 Interest on intercompany funding is calculated at the Bank of England base rate plus 3.75%: intercompany deposits receive interest at the Bank of England base rate with no margin.
Loans 2011 m Loans 395 395 The details of the loans are disclosed within note 18 to the consolidated financial statements and should be regarded as an integral part of these financial statements.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 93 8.
Share capital 2011 2011 million m Called-up, allotted and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each 914 1 9.
Reserves Profit and loss and other Share capital Share premium reserves Total m m m m Opening balance at 15 December 2009 Issue of share capital 1 986 987 Capital reduction 400 400 Loss for the period 10 10 Net cost of share-based payments 4 4 Equity dividends 15 15 1 586 379 966 The Company was incorporated on 15 December 2009 and on 29 March 2010 the Group became a separately listed entity on the London Stock Exchange, under a court approved scheme of arrangement under part 26 of the Companies Act.
Both the share capital and share premium in the Company arose as a result of the issuance of new shares in the Group to ordinary Shareholders of CPW.
As these shares were issued for nil consideration, both the share capital of 1m and share premium of 986m have been treated as arising from the demerger reserve.
Further detail is included in notes 1 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements which should be considered an integral part of these financial statements.
On 29 March 2010 the share premium relating to the ordinary shares was reduced by 400m by way of a court approved capital reduction.
This had the effect of creating distributable reserves which are available at the discretion of the Board for dividend payments as required.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
