Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 49 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies and basis of preparation The prior year consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared with the objective of presenting the results, net assets and cash flows of the Group in the form Basis of preparation that arose on completion of the demerger, as if it had been TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC is incorporated in the a standalone business during the year ended 31 March 2010.
The financial statements have been prepared by aggregating The Consolidated financial statements of the Company have the Statutory accounts of the companies and assets that been prepared in accordance with International Financial have been transferred to the Group on demerger.
Any assets Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the and liabilities held within the consolidation of CPW that related European Union and as applied in accordance with the to the Group were also reflected in the consolidated financial provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
These financial statements, as though they formed part of the Group.
The statements therefore comply with Article 4 of the European principles of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate financial Union International Accounting Standard regulation.
statements and SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose The Company has applied United Kingdom Generally Entities have been applied in determining the companies Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP in the preparation and assets to be combined.
of its individual financial statements, which are contained As a part of the demerger, certain companies and assets on pages 86 to 93. were transferred out of the Group.
These companies and The financial statements have been prepared on the going assets have been treated as though they were never part concern basis.
Details of the considerations undertaken of the Group.
Such transfers were made at market value by the Directors in reaching this conclusion are set out as determined by management for cash consideration on page 19 within the Finance review.
At 31 March 2010, the full value at which transfers were made are reflected in the balance sheet and The financial statements have been prepared on the historical any profits or losses arising on the transfers are reflected cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial in the demerger reserve as these are effectively treated instruments and investments.
The financial statements are as a capital contribution from CPW.
presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million, because that is the currency of the principal economic environment Adjustments reflected in the demerger reserve, which in which the Group operates.
have implications for cash and cash equivalents, have been disclosed in the cash flow statement as cash The Groups principal accounting policies are set out below.
flows relating to movements in demerger reserve.
Basis of consolidation Dividends to or from other entities in CPW have been The consolidated financial statements incorporate the eliminated with the corresponding entry recorded in equity.
financial statements of the Company, entities controlled by Such dividends would not have been applicable had the the Company its subsidiaries and entities jointly-controlled operations been independent during the current and by the Company its joint ventures made up to 31 March each preceding year and are not representative of the future year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power position of the Group.
Such payments are recorded in to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee cash flows relating to movements in demerger reserve.
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
CPW issued equity settled share-based payments to The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are certain employees of its subsidiaries and of Best Buy Europe.
included from or to the date on which control passed to or was The related expense arising in relation to these employees relinquished by the Group.
Intercompany transactions and has been allocated to the Group based on the businesses balances between subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
that benefited from the incentives.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial Taxation has been allocated in the income statement of the statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies Group to reflect as far as possible the underlying tax position used into line with those used by the Group.
Any Group relief provided between companies Shares in the Company held by the Group ESOT are shown in CPW is therefore treated as having been charged, even if as a reduction in Shareholders funds.
Other assets and such charges were not made.
liabilities held by the trust are consolidated with the assets As the Company did not exist during the year ended and liabilities of the Group.
31 March 2010 in the form that arose on Demerger, the average actual shares in issue during this year do not provide Comparative information presentation of the Groups a meaningful basis for calculating EPS.
EPS was, therefore, Results for the year ended 31 March 2010 calculated based on the number of CPW shares in issue On 26 March 2010 CPW demerged into Carphone Warehouse until the demerger date, the number of the Groups shares Group plc and the Group.
The Company and the Carphone in issue after that date, and the shareholding of the Group Warehouse Group plc were separately listed on the London ESOT during this financial year.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 50 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies and basis of preparation continued The adoption of IFRS 1, IFRS 2, IAS 28, IFRIC 17 and Improvement to IFRS April 2009 have had no material impact on the Group.
Diluted EPS has been calculated based on options held over CPW shares during the year ended 31 March 2010 and the IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations, IAS 27 2008 Groups proportion of the CPW share price.
Consolidated and Separate financial statements and IAS 28 2008 Investments in Associates Changes in accounting policy The most significant changes to the Groups previous accounting In the current year, the following new and revised Standards policies relate to business combinations.
These are: acquisition and Interpretations have been adopted.
Unless otherwise related costs are included in operating expenses as they are stated, the adoption of these standards and interpretations incurred rather than capitalised: any changes to the cost of an has had no significant impact on these financial statements: acquisition, including contingent consideration, resulting from IFRS 1 Revised First-time Adoption of International an event after the date of acquisition are recognised in profit or Financial Reporting Standards: loss rather than as an adjustment to goodwill: and where a step acquisition occurs the Group will remeasure its previously held IFRS 2 amended Group Cash-settled Share-based equity interest at acquisition date fair value and recognise the Payment Transactions: the amendment clarifies the resulting gain or loss, if any, in the income statement or other accounting for share-based payment transactions comprehensive income.
between Group entities: The adoption of IFRS 3 2008 and the subsequent changes to IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations: the impact the accounting policies have resulted in the Group recognising of the changes are set out below: a gain of 1m within its income statement in respect of the fair IAS 24 2009 Related party disclosures: the impact value of the equity interest previously held for the year ended of the changes are set out below: 31 March 2011.
IAS 27 2008 Consolidated and Separate financial Any adjustments to contingent consideration of acquisitions statements: the impact of the changes are set out below: made prior to 1 April 2010 which result in an adjustment to goodwill continue to be accounted for under IFRS 3 2004 IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates: the impact and IAS 27 2005. of the changes are set out below: IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners: the IAS 24 2009 Related party disclosures Interpretation provides guidance on when an entity should The Group has early adopted IAS 24 2009 Related party recognise a non-cash dividend payable, how to measure disclosures, which was endorsed by the EU in July 2010 and, the dividend payable and how to account for any difference as such, can be adopted for the year ended 31 March 2011. between the carrying amount of the assets distributed and The impact of the standard is that it simplifies the definition the carrying amount of the dividend payable when the of a related party, with shared person or entity director, payable is settled: and shareholder or otherwise no longer automatically implying the existence of a related party relationship.
Under the Improvements to IFRS April 2009 : the impact of the revised standard this only occurs where the person or entity changes are set out below.
can exert significant influence over both entities.
The impact The following amendments were made as part of is that following the demerger of the Group and the adoption Improvements to IFRS 2009 : of IAS 24 2009, Best Buy Europe and Carphone Warehouse Group plc are no longer considered related parties of the Group.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: IFRS 2 has been amended, following the issue of IFRS 3 2008, to Foreign currency translation and transactions confirm that the contribution of a business on formation Material transactions in foreign currencies are hedged using of a joint venture and common control transactions are forward purchases or sales of the relevant currencies and not within the scope of IFRS 2. are recognised in the financial statements at the exchange Amendment to IAS 17 Leases: IAS 17 has been amended rates thus obtained.
Unhedged transactions are recorded such that it may be possible to classify a lease of land as at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Hedge a finance lease if it meets the criteria for that classification accounting as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: under IAS 17.
Recognition and Measurement has been applied in the current and preceding financial year by marking to market Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition the relevant financial instruments at the balance sheet date and Measurement: IAS 39 has been amended to state and recognising the gain or loss in equity in respect of cash that options contracts between an acquirer and a selling flow hedges, and through the income statement in respect shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree that will result in a of fair value hedges.
business combination at a future acquisition date are not excluded from the scope of the standard.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 51 The results of overseas operations are translated at the average The movement in cumulative expense since the previous foreign exchange rates for the year, and their balance sheets balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, are translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
with a corresponding entry in reserves.
Goodwill is held in the currency of the operations to which it For schemes with market performance criteria, the number relates.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of opening of options expected to vest is adjusted only for expectations of net assets, goodwill and results of overseas operations are leavers prior to vesting.
The movement in cumulative expense recognised in equity.
All other exchange differences are included since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the in the income statement.
income statement, with a corresponding entry in reserves.
The principal exchange rates against UK Sterling used in these If a share-based payment scheme is cancelled, any remaining financial statements are as follows: part of the fair value of the scheme is expensed through the income statement.
If a share-based payment scheme is forfeited, Average Closing no further expense is recognised and any charges previously 2011 2010 2011 2010 recognised through the income statement are reversed.
Euro 1.17 1.13 1.13 1.12 Share-based payment charges are also recognised on loans United States Dollar 1.56 1.59 1.60 1.52 that are provided to employees to settle personal tax liabilities, to the extent to which the loans are not, in certain circumstances, Where a foreign operation is sold, the gain or loss on disposal repayable: the cost of such loans is expensed on grant.
recognised in the income statement is determined after taking Charges also arise on loans that are provided to employees to into account the cumulative currency translation differences fund the purchase of shares in the Group as part of long-term that are attributable to the operation.
incentives plans LTIP, to the extent to which the loans are not, in certain circumstances, repayable: the cost of such loans is Revenue expensed over the course of the relevant incentive plans.
Revenue is stated net of VAT and other sales related taxes, and comprises revenue generated from the provision of fixed line Where loans are granted for the purchase of shares under telecommunications services.
All such revenue is recognised a LTIP, interest is charged on these loans.
as the services are provided: In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payment no cost Line rental is recognised in the period to which it relates: has been recognised in respect of the options granted before 7 November 2002.
Voice and broadband subscriptions are recognised in the period to which they relate: Subscriber acquisition costs Voice usage is recognised in the period in which the Subscriber acquisition costs, being third party costs of recruiting customer takes the service: and retaining new customers, are expensed as incurred.
Promotional discounts are amortised on a straight-line Pensions basis over the minimum contract period subject to an Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to adjustment for in contract churn: the income statement as they become payable in accordance Connection charges are recognised in the period in which with the rules of the schemes.
the connection is made: and Dividends Data service solutions and other service contracts are Dividend income is recognised when payment has been recognised as the Group fulfils its performance obligations.
Final dividend distributions are recognised as a Share-based payments liability in the financial statements in the year in which they The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to are approved by the relevant Shareholders.
Equity settled share-based payments are recognised in the year in which they are paid.
are measured at fair value at the date of grant, and expensed Special dividends relating to the demerger transaction have over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number been recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the of shares that will eventually vest.
year in which they were approved by the relevant Shareholders.
Fair value is measured by use of a Binomial model for share-based payments with internal performance criteria Leases for example, EPS targets and a Black Scholes or Monte Rental payments under operating leases are charged to Carlo model for those with external performance criteria the income statement on a straight-line basis over the for example, TSR targets.
Lease incentives and rent-free periods are amortised through the income statement over the For schemes with non-market performance criteria, the number period of the lease.
of options expected to vest is recalculated at each balance sheet date, based on expectations of performance against target and of leavers prior to vesting.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies and basis of preparation continued Acquisition intangibles Acquired intangible assets such as customer bases, customer revenue share agreements, brands and other intangible assets Gains or losses from sale and leaseback transactions are acquired through a business combination are capitalised deferred over the life of the new lease to the extent that the separately from goodwill and amortised over their expected rentals are considered to be above or below market rentals.
useful lives of up to six years on a straight-line basis.
The value The remaining gain or loss is recognised within operating attributed to such assets is based on the future economic expenses in the year in which the sale is completed.
benefit that is expected to be derived from them, calculated as the present value of future cash flows after a deduction Taxation for contributory assets.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using At the acquisition date, acquisition intangibles are allocated the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively to each of the CGU expected to benefit from the synergies of enacted at the balance sheet date.
Details of impairment testing are provided within the Impairment of assets section below.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance Property, plant and equipment sheet and its tax base.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of Deferred tax liabilities represent tax payable in future periods depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation in respect of taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax is provided on all property, plant and equipment at rates assets represent tax recoverable in future periods in respect calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful of unused tax losses and credits.
Deferred tax is determined life from the date it is brought into use, as follows: using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively Short leasehold costs enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply 10% or the lease term if less than ten years when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Network equipment and computer hardware 12.5 50% per annum A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against Fixtures and fittings which the asset can be utilised.
Current and deferred tax is 20 25% per annum recognised in the income statement except where it relates to an item recognised directly in reserves, in which case it Impairment of assets is recognised directly in reserves.
Goodwill Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment a legal right to do so in the relevant jurisdictions.
annually or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Intangible assets For the purpose of impairment testing, at the acquisition date, Goodwill goodwill is allocated to each of the CGUs expected to benefit Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings from the synergies of the combination.
The Group tests goodwill and businesses, representing the excess of the fair value of annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable that goodwill might be impaired, this review is performed at a assets and liabilities acquired, is recognised initially as an CGU level.
asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less The Group has two CGUs Residential and Corporate.
The Groups shared costs and assets relating mainly to On disposal of a subsidiary undertaking, the relevant goodwill infrastructure and central overheads are allocated across the is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
two CGUs based on the relative future cash flows.
Impairment is determined by assessing the future cash flows of the CGU Operating intangibles to which the goodwill relates.
The future cash flows of the Operating intangibles include internal infrastructure and design Group are taken from the Board or Management approved costs incurred in the development of software for internal use.
three year plan and extrapolated out for the following 17 years Internally generated software is recognised as an intangible based on the UKs long-term growth rate.
This is discounted asset only if it can be separately identified, it is probable that by the CGUs weighted average cost of capital to give the net the asset will generate future economic benefits, and the present value of that CGU.
Where the net present value of development cost can be measured reliably.
Where these future cash flows is less than the carrying value of the unit, conditions are not met, development expenditure is recognised the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Operating amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the intangibles are amortised on a straight-line basis over their other assets of the segment pro-rata on the basis of the estimated useful economic lives of up to eight years.
carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 53 loss is recognised in the income statement and is not Provisions subsequently reversed.
Provisions are recognised when a legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of past events and it is probable Sensitivity analysis is performed using reasonably possible that an outflow of resources will be required to settle changes in the key assumptions.
the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are discounted where Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets the time value of money is considered to be material.
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there Provisions are categorised as follows: is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes Operating efficiencies a formal estimate of the assets recoverable amount and the extent Operating efficiencies provisions relate principally to of any impairment loss.
An intangible asset with an indefinite redundancy costs and are only recognised where plans useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever are demonstrably committed and where appropriate there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
communication to those affected has been undertaken at the balance sheet date.
These provisions are typically The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value expected to be utilised over the 12 months following less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, announcement of the reorganisation.
the estimated cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market One Company integration assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific These provisions relate principally to redundancy costs and to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have are only recognised where plans are demonstrably committed not been adjusted.
and where appropriate communication to those affected If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less has been undertaken at the balance sheet date, and onerous than the carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset contract costs where a decision has been made to exit or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
a contract as part of the One Company reorganisation.
These provisions are typically expected to be utilised Investments over 12 to 24 months.
Investments, other than subsidiaries, are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given plus Property any transaction costs associated with the acquisition.
Property provisions relate to dilapidations and similar property costs, and costs associated with onerous property contracts.
Investments are categorised as available-for-sale and are then All such provisions are assessed by reference to the terms recorded at fair value.
Changes in fair value, together with any and conditions of the contract and market conditions at the related taxation, are taken directly to equity, and recycled to the balance sheet date.
Property provisions are expected to income statement when the investment is sold or determined to be utilised over the next nine years.
Contract and other Interests in joint ventures Contract and other provisions relate to onerous contracts Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity and contracts with unfavourable terms arising on the method.
The Consolidated income statement includes the Groups acquisition of businesses and anticipated costs of unresolved share of the post-tax profits or losses of the joint ventures based legal disputes.
All such provisions are assessed by reference on their financial statements for the year.
In the Consolidated to the best available information at the balance sheet date.
balance sheet, the Groups interest in joint ventures are shown Contract and other provisions are expected to be utilised as a non-current asset in the balance sheet, representing the over the next 24 months.
Groups investment in the share capital of the joint ventures, as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets or liabilities less provision for any impairment.
When a joint venture has net liabilities, any loans advanced to the venture are included in the Groups equity accounted investment in it.
When a venture has net assets, any loans advanced to it are shown separately in the balance sheet, as a receivable to the Group.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and principally represents modems and routers.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less costs expected to be incurred on disposal.
A provision is made for obsolete items where appropriate.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 54 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies and basis of preparation continued Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the Financial instruments proceeds received, net of direct issuance costs Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial Shares in the Company held by the Group ESOT are shown as instruments, are recognised in the Groups balance sheet a reduction in Shareholders funds.
Other assets and liabilities when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions held by the trust are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Trade and other receivables The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The use or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active of financial derivatives is governed by the framework approved market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and by the Board, which provide written principles on the use of receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management interest method, less any impairment.
Changes in values of all derivatives of a financing recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except nature are included within investment income and financing for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest costs in the income statement.
The Group does not use would be immaterial.
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair Cash and cash equivalents includes cash-in-hand and value on the contract date and are subsequently remeasured deposits held at call with banks.
to fair value at each reporting date.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging Trade payables instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or Trade payables are other financial liabilities initially measured no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, or the Company at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
chooses to end the hedging relationship.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Fair value hedges Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group The Group uses derivative instruments primarily interest are classified according to the substance of the contractual rate swaps to manage its interest rate risk.
The Group arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial designates these as fair value hedges with changes in fair liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any value of the hedging instrument recognised in the income contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of statement for the year together with the changes in the fair the Group after deducting all of its liabilities and includes value of the hedged item to the extent the hedge is effective.
no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial Headline results and exceptional items liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Headline results are stated before the amortisation of Loans and other borrowings acquisition intangibles and exceptional items.
Exceptional items are those that are considered to be one-off, nonLoans and other borrowings represent committed and recurring in nature and so material that the Directors believe uncommitted bank loans, bank overdrafts, and loans from that they require separate disclosure to avoid distortion related parties.
These are initially measured at fair value which of underlying performance and should be separately is equal to cost at inception, and are subsequently measured presented on the face of the income statement.
Further at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, details of the exceptional items are provided in note 9. except where they are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds net of Critical judgements in applying the Groups transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of accounting policies borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies Bank fees and legal costs associated with the securing of management has made the following judgements that have external financing are capitalised and amortised over the the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in term of the relevant facility.
All other borrowing costs are the financial statements.
Estimates and assumptions used recognised in the income statement in the period in which in the preparation of the financial statements are continually they are incurred.
reviewed and revised as necessary.
Whilst every effort is made to ensure that such estimates and assumptions are reasonable, Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an by their nature they are uncertain, and as such changes in integral part of the Groups cash management are included estimates and assumptions may have a material impact.
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 55 Goodwill Future accounting developments Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires estimation At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, of the value in use of the CGUs to which the goodwill has been the following Standards and Interpretations which have not allocated.
The value in use calculation involves estimation been applied in these financial statements were in issue of both the future cash flows of the CGUs and the selection but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been of appropriate discount rates, to use to calculate present adopted by the EU : values note 11.
The carrying value of goodwill is 471m IAS 32 amended Classification of Rights Issues 2010 : 470m, as restated at the balance sheet date.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Equity Instruments The assessment of the useful economic lives of these assets IFRIC 14 amended Prepayments of a Minimum requires judgement.
Depreciation and amortisation is charged Funding Requirement to the income statement based on the useful economic life selected.
This assessment requires estimation of the period Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 over which the Group will benefit from the assets.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the other Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets standards listed above will have a material impact on the has any indication of impairment also requires judgement.
financial statements of the Group in future periods.
If an indication of impairment is identified, further judgement is required to assess whether the carrying amount can be supported by the value in use of the CGU that the asset is allocated to.
The value in use calculation involves estimation of both the future cash flows of the CGUs and the selection of appropriate discount rates, to use to calculate present values note 11.
Trade and other receivables Judgement is required in order to evaluate the likelihood of collection of customer debt after revenue has been recognised and hence the value of the bad and doubtful debt.
These provisions are based on historical trends in the percentage of debts which are not recovered.
Deferred taxation The extent to which tax losses can be utilised depends on the extent to which taxable profits are generated in the relevant jurisdictions for the foreseeable future, and on the tax legislation then in force, and as such the value of associated deferred tax assets is uncertain.
Provisions The Groups reorganisation and other provisions are based on the best information available to management at the balance sheet date.
However, the future costs assumed are inevitably only estimates, which may differ from those ultimately incurred.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segmental information presented in the financial statements to be that used by the chief operating decision maker to evaluate the performance of the business and decide how to allocate resources.
The Group has identified the Board as its chief operating decision maker.
The Board considers the results of the business as a whole when assessing the performance of the business and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
Accordingly the Group has one operating segment.
During the previous financial year the Group incurred costs in respect of CPW CPW costs.
These costs are not reflective of the ongoing costs of the Group and have been disclosed separately, the costs of the demerger note 9 are shown within CPW costs.
Operations CPW costs Total Year ended 31 March 2011 m m m Revenue 1,765 1,765 Headline EBITDA 276 276 Depreciation 57 57 Amortisation of operating intangibles 26 26 Share of results of joint venture 1 1 Headline profit before interest and taxation 192 192 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional amortisation 66 66 Exceptional items Operating expenses note 9 48 48 Exceptional items Depreciation note 9 3 3 Operating profit 75 75 Operations CPW costs Total Year ended 31 March 2010 m m m Revenue 1,686 1,686 Headline EBITDA 230 9 221 Depreciation 46 46 Amortisation of operating intangibles 24 24 Headline profit before interest and taxation 160 9 151 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional amortisation 87 87 Exceptional items Operating expenses note 9 29 18 47 Exceptional items Depreciation note 9 1 1 Operating profit 43 27 16 Comprises 62m of amortisation on acquisition intangibles 2010 : 83m and 4m of exceptional amortisation 2010 : 4m note 9.
The Groups revenue is split by broadband, non-broadband and corporate products.
Broadband and non-broadband comprise residential customers and business customers that receive similar products.
2011 2010 m m Broadband 1,247 1,086 Non-broadband 189 273 Corporate 329 327 1,765 1,686 The Group has no material overseas operations, as a result a split of revenue and total assets by geographical location has not been disclosed.
The Group entered into an agreement to sell its operations in Belgium and Ireland on 31 March 2010 and 19 April 2010 respectively.
These operations contributed revenue of 16m in the year ended 31 March 2010 to the non-broadband channel.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 57 3.
Profit before interest and taxation Group profit before interest and taxation is stated after charging: 2011 2010 m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 57 46 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 62 83 Amortisation of operating intangible fixed assets 26 24 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 3 1 Impairment of operating intangible fixed assets 4 4 Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables 33 25 Share-based payments 4 4 Staff costs, excluding share-based payments 154 164 Cost of inventories recognised in expenses 19 20 Rentals under operating leases property 9 6 Rentals under operating leases other 57 40 4.
Employee costs The average number of employees including Executive Directors was: 2011 2010 Number Number Administration 1,988 2,346 Sales and customer management 2,089 2,226 4,077 4,572 The aggregate remuneration recognised in respect of these employees in the income statement comprised: 2011 2010 m m Wages and salaries 135 145 Social security costs 16 16 Other pension costs note 26 3 3 154 164 Share-based payments note 5 4 4 158 168 Compensation earned by Key Management is analysed below.
The Key Management Personnel comprised the TalkTalk Group Executive Board and Board of Directors in the current year and the TalkTalk Group Executive Board and an allocation of the CPW Directors in the prior year.
2011 2010 m m Salaries and fees 3.4 2.0 Performance bonuses 2.4 2.5 Benefits 0.1 0.1 Pension costs 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 2.3 1.5 8.4 6.3 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 58 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees through the schemes set out in the analysis below.
The Groups share schemes are the Discretionary Share Option Plan DSOP, Value Enhancement Scheme VES and Save-As-You-Earn scheme SAYE.
These schemes are disclosed within section a of this note to the accounts.
In addition, the Group has a number of legacy Carphone Warehouse Group schemes which are disclosed within section b of this note to the accounts.
The Group recognised a charge of 4m in the year ended 31 March 2011 2010 : 4m in respect of equity settled share-based payments.
In the prior year a charge of 3m was taken directly to reserves in respect of the CPW TTG VES as part of the demerger accounting.
In order to aid the user of the accounts, the dilutive effect of each of the TalkTalk Group schemes and legacy schemes has been presented.
This has been calculated using an average share price for the financial year of 1.38 2010 : 1.27. a TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC schemes During the year the Group introduced the following two schemes: i The DSOP.
The scheme uses share options to provide long-term incentives to senior management.
Awards made under the DSOP are subject to TSR performance targets and are measured over an initial performance period to 29 March 2013, and a subsequent performance period to 29 March 2014.
Options are forfeited if an employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
ii The SAYE share option scheme.
The scheme permits the granting of options to employees linked to a bank SAYE contract for a term of three or five years.
Contributions from UK employees range from 5 to 250 and Ireland employees range from 12 to 500 per month.
Options may be exercised at the end of the three or five year period at an exercise price of 1.02 per share.
DSOP SAYE 2011 2011 2011 2011 Number WAEP Number WAEP million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year Granted during the year 29 1.25 8 1.02 5 1.27 1 Forfeited during the year 1.02 Outstanding at the end of the year 24 1.24 7 1.02 Exercisable at the end of the year Weighted average remaining contractual life years 9.0 3.1 Dilutive effect millions 0.5 0.6 Valuation method Monte Carlo Black Scholes Share price pence 132 124 Exercise price pence 127 102 Expected volatility 37.4% 42.4% Expected exercise years 6.5 3.7 Risk free rate 3.4% 1.9% Expected dividend yield 3.8% 3.7% Fair value of options granted m 9m 3m The difference in the schemes reflects the timing of expected exercise date.
No options were exercisable either during the year or at the year end.
Of the DSOP options granted 472,000 were nil priced.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 59 TTG VES The TTG VES enables participants to share in up to 7% of any increase in the value of the Group over an opening valuation representing invested capital at 1 April 2009, adjusted as relevant for changes in invested capital since that date.
The incremental value is measured after a minimum annual rate of return of 7% on this invested capital.
The Group advanced loans to participants to enable them to purchase A shares in TalkTalk Group Limited, the holding company of the Groups operating business.
The Group has an obligation to acquire these shares if performance conditions are met, to provide to participants the share of value described above.
These performance conditions are measured over an initial performance period to September 2012, at which point participants have a put option over 60% of their shares, and a subsequent performance period to September 2013, at which point participants have a put option over the remainder of their shares.
If the performance criteria are not met, the A shares will have no value.
The TTG VES has a potentially dilutive effect of 22 million shares 2010 : 28 million shares, which has been included in the diluted EPS calculation.
The fair value of the schemes, which has performance targets based on the growth of the market capitalisation of the Group, was estimated at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model to initially value the A shares and then a Black Scholes model to calculate the option value.
The model combines the valuation price of a share at the date of grant with the probability of meeting performance criteria, based on the expected value of the Group at the date of grant discounted for the lack of marketability of the shares.
The following assumptions were used in the Monte Carlo model for the A shares awarded in the year: volatility of 22%: a risk free rate ranging from 0.5% to 2.7%: and a dividend yield of between 0% and 5% in each of the three years to September 2013.
The following assumptions were used in the Black Scholes model for the A shares awarded in the year: equity volatility of 149.9% and 139.0% for September 2012 and September 2013 options respectively: a risk free rate of 1.9% and 2.3% for September 2012 and September 2013 options respectively: and a dividend yield of nil.
b Legacy Carphone Warehouse schemes CPW TTG VES The CPW TTG VES enables participants to share in up to 2.24% of any increase in the value of the Group over an opening valuation representing invested capital at 1 April 2009, adjusted as relevant for changes in invested capital since that date.
The value of the CPW TTG VES pool is adjusted on vesting for any change in the value of the Groups share price from the date on which the shares were issued.
The Groups opening share price for this purpose represents an allocation of the share price of CPW at that date, based on the market capitalisations of the Group and Carphone Warehouse Group plc in the 5 days following demerger.
CPW advanced loans to participants to enable them to purchase C shares in TalkTalk Group Limited, the holding company of the Groups operating businesses.
The Group has an obligation to acquire these shares if certain performance conditions are met, to provide to participants the share of value described above.
If the performance criteria are not met, the C shares will have no value.
The CPW TTG VES has a potentially dilutive effect of 11 million shares 2010 : 10 million shares, which has been included in the diluted EPS calculations.
The fair value of the CPW TTG VES C shares was calculated using the same assumptions as for the TTG VES A shares, see above.
The below table summarise the other legacy CPW schemes.
The prior year WAEP used throughout this analysis is that of the share-based payments as adjusted to reflect the relative value of the Group within CPW at demerger.
The prior year WAEP is therefore not necessarily representative of the WAEP that might apply on an ongoing basis.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 60 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Share-based payments continued 1 Performance share plan 2011 2011 2010 2010 Number WAEP Number WAEP million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 13 22 Forfeited during the year 8 2 1 7 Exercised during the year Outstanding at the end of the year 4 13 Exercisable at the end of the year 4 6 Weighted average contract life years 4.4 6.6 Options exercised in the year weighted average market price 1.36 1.11 Dilutive effect millions 5.6 5.9 2 ESOS 2011 2011 2010 2010 Number WAEP Number WAEP million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5 0.78 8 0.60 2 1.05 3 Exercised during the year 0.55 Outstanding at the end of the year 3 0.53 5 0.66 Exercisable at the end of the year 3 0.53 5 0.66 Weighted average contract life years 1.6 1.7 Options exercised in the year weighted average market price 1.35 1.13 Dilutive effect millions 2.4 2.1 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 61 3 Other employee share option schemes 2011 2011 2010 2010 Number WAEP Number WAEP million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7 0.51 9 0.63 Forfeited during the year 2 4 0.51 Exercised during the year Outstanding at the end of the year 3 0.51 7 0.51 Exercisable at the end of the year 3 0.51 Weighted average contract life years 7.7 8.7 Options exercised in the year weighted average market price 1.28 1.10 Dilutive effect millions 3.5 4.3 Total dilutive effect of legacy schemes 11.5 12.3 1 For awards made in July 2004 these performance conditions have been met and the options vested.
For awards made in the years ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2008 the performance conditions were not met and lapsed during the year.
2 The ESOS options have already vested.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
The options analysis includes 2 million 2010 : 3 million options that were granted before 7 November 2002.
In accordance with IFRS2 Share-based payment, no cost has been recognised in respect of these options.
3 These awards are subject to initial performance conditions, principally in relation to earnings and cash generation, over a period to March 2010.
These options have all vested.
Share gift In December 2008, 3.6 million shares were gifted by Carphone Warehouses Employee Benefit Trust to certain senior employees of the Carphone Warehouse Group.
The shares were restricted until 30 June 2010, when all performance criteria were achieved.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 62 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Finance costs and investment revenue Finance costs are analysed as follows: 2011 2010 m m Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 13 7 Facility fees and similar charges 3 1 Unwinding of discount on provisions 2 2 Demerger fees note 9 1 18 11 Investment revenue is analysed as follows: 2011 2010 m m Interest on loans to related parties 5 Other interest receivable 1 6 Loans to Carphone Warehouse Group plc were settled as part of the demerger note 28.
Taxation The tax charge comprises: 2011 2010 m m Current tax: UK Corporation tax 13 Overseas tax 1 14 Adjustments in respect of prior years: UK Corporation tax 18 2 Total current tax 18 12 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of timing differences 18 5 Effect of change in tax rate 9 Adjustments in respect of prior years reclassification from current tax 18 Adjustments in respect of prior years deferred tax recognised 5 3 Total deferred tax 40 2 Total tax charge 22 14 The tax charge on Headline earnings for the year ended 31 March 2011 is 52m 2010 : 41m representing an effective tax rate on pre-tax profits of 30% 2010 : 28%.
The tax charge on Statutory earnings for the year ended 31 March 2011 is 22m 2010 : 14m.
The reconciliation between the Headline and Statutory tax charge is shown in note 9.
There has been a reclassification of 18m 2010 : nil in the year from current tax to deferred tax to better reflect expected utilisation of losses.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 63 The principal differences between the tax charge and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 28% 2010 : 28% to the profit before tax are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Profit before tax 57 11 Tax at 28% 2010 : 28% 16 3 Items attracting no tax relief or liability 2 16 Effect of change in tax rate 9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 5 Total tax charge through income statement 22 14 Tax on items recognised directly in retained earnings and other reserves are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax credit charge 2 1 Total tax charge through retained earnings and other reserves 20 15 The movement for both the year ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 relates to share-based payments.
The deferred tax assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year are as follows: Timing Timing differences differences on Share-based on capitalised acquisition Other timing payments costs Tax losses intangibles differences Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2010 2 85 85 19 2 155 Charge credit to the income statement 1 9 40 8 2 40 Credit to reserves 2 2 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 At 31 March 2011 3 76 45 12 4 116 Timing Timing differences differences on Share-based on capitalised acquisition Other timing payments costs Tax losses intangibles differences Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2009 2 29 74 3 108 Credit charge to the income statement 1 14 24 5 2 2 Charge to reserves 1 1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 42 35 27 50 At 31 March 2010 2 85 85 19 2 155 No deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in either year, except where there is a legal right to do so in the relevant jurisdictions.
During the year two reductions in the UK Statutory rate of Corporation tax were enacted bringing the rate down from 28% to 26%.
Accordingly the tax assets and liabilities recognised at 31 March 2011 take account of these changes.
This has resulted in a tax charge to the Income statement as the value of the Groups tax assets has been reduced.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation continued At 31 March 2011, the Group had unused tax losses of 1,016m 2010 : 957m available for offset against future taxable profits.
A deferred tax asset of 45m 2010 : 85m has been recognised in respect of 173m 2010 : 304m of such losses, based on expectations of recovery in the foreseeable future.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 843m 2010 : 653m as there is insufficient evidence that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these losses can be recovered.
All losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
Dividends The following dividends were paid by the Group to its Shareholders: 2011 2010 m m Ordinary dividends Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 of 1.70p per ordinary share 15 Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 of 3.00p per ordinary share 27 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 1.45p per ordinary share 13 Total ordinary dividends 15 40 Special dividends relating to the demerger Special interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 3.20p per ordinary share 29 Demerger dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 19.88p per ordinary share 182 Total special dividends 211 Total dividends paid 15 251 The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 is 3.90p per ordinary share on approximately 909 million shares 35m, which was approved by the Board on 18 May 2011 and has not been included as a liability as at 31 March 2011.
In the prior year the ordinary dividends were paid by CPW to its Shareholders.
The special interim dividends of 29m were paid by CPW to its Shareholders.
The demerger dividends of 182m were paid by CPW to Carphone Warehouse Group plc as part of the demerger transaction.
The Group ESOT has waived its rights to receive dividends in the current and prior year and this is reflected in the analysis above.
Reconciliation of Headline information to Statutory information Profit before Profit Profit for EBITDA interest and tax before tax the year Year ended 31 March 2011 m m m m Headline results 276 192 174 122 Exceptional items Operating expenses a 12 12 12 9 Exceptional items Operating expenses b 36 36 36 28 Exceptional items Depreciation b 3 3 2 Exceptional items Amortisation b 4 4 3 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles d 62 62 45 Statutory results 228 75 57 35 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 65 Profit before Profit Profit for EBITDA interest and tax before tax the year Year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m Headline results 221 151 147 106 Exceptional items Operating expenses b 29 29 29 24 Exceptional items Operating expenses c 18 18 18 17 Exceptional items Depreciation b 1 1 1 Exceptional items Amortisation b 4 4 3 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles d 83 83 63 Exceptional items Interest c 1 1 Statutory results 174 16 11 3 Headline information is provided because the Directors consider that it provides assistance in understanding underlying performance.
a Operating efficiencies On 26 January 2011, a major restructure of the Group was announced to integrate technology and IT capabilities and consolidate back office functions.
The reorganisation will principally result in a reduction in headcount.
Operating reorganisation costs of 12m were incurred during the year ended 31 March 2011, principally comprising redundancies and consulting costs.
A total taxation credit of 3m has been recognised in respect of these costs.
b One Company integration The One Company integration was implemented during the prior year following the acquisition of Tiscali UK on 3 July 2009.
The Group revisited its overall operating structure in order to both integrate the Tiscali business and deliver efficiencies in existing operations.
The program generated significant synergies, through the elimination of duplicated costs and migration of customers onto the Groups unbundled network.
The program included network integration costs related to the termination of contracts, and the write down of associated assets principally, of backhaul circuits.
This comprised both those acquired with the Tiscali business and those previously contracted for by the Group prior to its acquisition of Tiscali.
These contracts were terminated as it was necessary to replace the previous backhaul solutions in order to provide one combined backhaul solution for the Group and to create a higher capacity network.
Operating reorganisation costs of 40m were incurred during the year ended 31 March 2011, principally comprising redundancies and site closures, an integration project team and consulting costs 2010 : 29m.
Costs of 7m were incurred in respect of redundant software and fixed asset write downs 2010 : 5m.
A total taxation credit of 10m has been recognised in respect of these costs 2010 : 6m.
A credit of 4m has been recognised in respect of recycling of Translation reserves in relation to legal entities which have been liquidated.
No taxation has been recognised in respect of this credit.
c Demerger and other separation costs During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Carphone Warehouse demerged the Company and it was separately listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The separation required substantial costs to be incurred, both for managing the process internally, for meeting the external requirements for a company to list and for separating from IT activities managed by CPW.
Operating costs of 18m and banking fees of 1m were incurred.
A taxation credit of 1m was recognised in respect of these costs.
d Amortisation of acquisition intangibles A tax credit at 28% has been recognised in all periods in respect of the amortisation of acquisition intangibles, net of any adjustments in respect of prior periods, this was 17m for the year ended 31 March 2011 2010 : 20m.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 66 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share have been calculated in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share.
EPS is shown on both a Headline and Statutory basis to assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
2011 2010 m m Headline earnings note 9 122 106 Statutory earnings 35 3 Weighted average number of shares millions : Shares in issue 914 914 Less weighted average holdings by Group ESOT 7 16 For basic EPS 907 898 Dilutive effect of share options 45 50 For diluted EPS 952 948 2011 2010 pence pence Basic earnings loss per share Headline 13.5 11.8 Statutory 3.9 0.3 2011 2010 pence pence Diluted earnings loss per share Headline 12.8 11.2 Statutory 3.7 0.3 In the prior year the Group did not exist in the form that arose on demerger, the average actual shares in issue during the prior year do not provide a meaningful basis for calculating EPS.
The prior year EPS has therefore been calculated based on the number of CPW shares in issue until demerger, the number of the Companys shares in issue from that date, and the shareholding of the Group ESOT during the prior year.
Diluted EPS has been calculated based on options held over CPW shares during these years and the Groups proportion of the CPW share price over that period.
The number of shares that could be issued but that are not considered to be dilutive at 31 March 2011 is 27 million 2010 : 7 million.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 67 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets a Goodwill 2010 2011 As restated m m Opening net book value 470 304 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 13 3 166 Disposals note 13 2 Closing net book value 471 470 The goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The Group has two CGUs Residential and Corporate.
The Groups shared costs and assets relating mainly to infrastructure and central overheads are allocated across the two CGUs based on relative size of the value in use of the CGU.
The allocation of goodwill across the CGUs is as follows: 2010 2011 As restated m m Residential 337 338 Corporate 134 132 471 470 The prior year balance sheet has been restated to reflect the finalisation of the Tiscali UK and UK Telco acquisition purchase prices note 29.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
This review is performed at a CGU level.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by the Board or Management for the next three years and extrapolates cash flows out for the following 17 years.
The key assumptions used are as follows: Long-term growth rates Long-term revenue growth rates applied are based on the growth rate for the UK per the OECD.
The rate applied in the current year was 1.8% 2010 : 1.8%.
Discount rate The underlying discount rate for each CGU is based on the UK ten-year gilt rate adjusted for an equity risk premium and the systematic risk of the CGU.
The average pre-tax rate for both CGUs used to discount the forecast cash flows is 9.1% 2010 : 8.8%.
The assumptions used in the calculation of the CGUs discount rate are benchmarked to externally available data.
The same discount rate has been applied to both CGUs due to the similarity of risk factors and geographical location.
Capital expenditure Forecast capital expenditure is based on senior management expectations of required future investment in the network and current run rate of expenditure.
Customer factors The key assumptions for the forecast cash flows of each of the CGUs are based on expected customer growth rates, ARPU, direct costs including acquisition costs and change in product mix.
The value assigned to each of these assumptions has been determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends in the Group and external information on expected trends of future market developments.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Sensitivity analysis has been performed for each key assumption and the Directors have not identified any reasonably possible material changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed the recoverable amount.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued b Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are analysed as follows: Operating Acquisition Total other intangibles intangibles intangibles m m m Opening balance at 1 April 2010 126 190 316 Additions 28 3 31 Amortisation 26 62 88 Impairment charges 4 4 Closing balance at 31 March 2011 124 131 255 Cost gross carrying amount 207 328 535 Accumulated amortisation 83 197 280 Closing balance at 31 March 2011 124 131 255 Operating Acquisition Total other intangibles intangibles intangibles m m m Opening balance at 1 April 2009 114 176 290 Additions 35 35 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5 97 102 Amortisation 24 83 107 Impairment charges 4 4 Closing balance at 31 March 2010 126 190 316 Cost gross carrying amount 179 333 512 Accumulated amortisation 53 143 196 Closing balance at 31 March 2010 126 190 316 Operating intangibles includes internally generated assets of net book value 5m 2010 : 6m, which are amortised over a period of up to five years.
Included within Operating intangibles are the following assets which are material to the Group: TRIO, the customer billing system, which has a net book value of 91m 2010 : 86m.
TRIO is amortised over a period of up to eight years depending on the release date of relevant component.
The weighted average remaining useful economic life of the components of TRIO is six years.
Acquisition intangibles are removed from cost in the analysis above once fully amortised.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 69 Acquisition intangibles are analysed as follows: Customer Customer revenue share bases agreements Other Total m m m m Opening balance at 1 April 2010 188 2 190 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3 3 Amortisation 60 2 62 Closing balance at 31 March 2011 131 131 Cost gross carrying amount 328 328 Accumulated amortisation 197 197 Closing balance at 31 March 2011 131 131 Customer Customer revenue share bases agreements Other Total m m m m Opening balance at 1 April 2009 164 9 3 176 Acquisition of subsidiaries 92 5 97 Amortisation 68 9 6 83 Closing balance at 31 March 2010 188 2 190 Cost gross carrying amount 328 5 333 Accumulated amortisation 140 3 143 Closing balance at 31 March 2010 188 2 190 Customer bases relate primarily to the AOL UK internet access business which was acquired in December 2006 and the Tiscali UK internet access business which was acquired in July 2009.
The valuation of customer bases is derived from the discounted future cash flows expected from them, after a deduction for contributory assets.
Customer revenue share agreements arose on the acquisition of AOLs UK internet access business, and represent rights, subject to performance criteria, to a share of transactional revenues generated by AOL access customers and customers on AOL sites.
The valuation of these rights was again derived from the discounted future cash flows expected from the agreement, after a deduction for contributory assets.
Other acquisition intangibles primarily represents licences to continue to use the AOL and Tiscali brands, valued using the relief from royalty method.
Included within Acquisition intangibles are the following assets which are material to the Group and their remaining useful economic life at 31 March 2011: AOL broadband customer base which has a net book value of 69m 2010 : 107m and a remaining useful economic life of 22 months 2010 : 34 months : and Tiscali customer base which has a net book value of 59m 2010 : 77m and a remaining useful economic life of 39 months 2010 : 51 months.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment Network equipment and Leasehold computer Fixtures and improvements hardware fittings Total m m m m Opening balance at 1 April 2010 7 254 1 262 Additions 87 1 88 Depreciation 1 55 1 57 Impairment charges 3 3 Closing balance at 31 March 2011 6 283 1 290 Cost gross carrying amount 6 442 6 454 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges 159 5 164 Closing balance at 31 March 2011 6 283 1 290 Network equipment and Leasehold computer Fixtures and improvements hardware fittings Total m m m m Opening balance at 1 April 2009 3 215 1 219 Additions 5 61 1 67 Acquisition of subsidiaries 24 24 Disposals 1 1 Depreciation 1 45 1 47 Closing balance at 31 March 2010 7 254 1 262 Cost gross carrying amount 8 394 2 404 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges 1 140 1 142 Closing balance at 31 March 2010 7 254 1 262 13.
Non-current asset investments m Cost and net book value at 1 April 2009, 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2011 1 Non-current asset investments at 31 March 2011 and at 31 March 2010 relate to a 11.3% interest in Shared Band Limited, a telecommunications technology provider.
The Group holds a strategic, non-controlling interest.
These shares are not held for trading and accordingly are classified as available for sale.
The fair value of the shares is based on cost less any provision for impairment, as the shares are not listed on an exchange, and therefore a market price cannot be reliably measured.
a Principal Group investments The Group has investments in the following subsidiary undertakings, which principally affected the profits or losses or net assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
All holdings are in equity share capital and give the Group an effective holding of 100% on consolidation.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 71 Country of incorporation Name or registration Nature of business TalkTalk Group Limited England and Wales Holding company TalkTalk Telecom Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company TalkTalk Communications Limited formerly Opal Telecommunications Limited England and Wales Telecommunications Onetel Telecommunications Limited England and Wales Telecommunications TalkTalk Telecom Limited England and Wales Telecommunications TalkTalk Direct Limited England and Wales Telecommunications TalkTalk UK Communication Services Limited England and Wales Telecommunications GIS Telecoms Limited England and Wales Telecommunications CPW Network Services Limited England and Wales Telecommunications Tiscali UK Limited England and Wales Telecommunications Directly held by the Company.
As part of the One Company integration, the Groups subsidiaries have been reduced from 67 to 39 in the year.
These 28 subsidiaries were either liquidated, merged or sold.
This includes nine overseas entities.
b Acquisitions and disposals i Tiscali UK On 3 July 2009, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Tiscali UK for a gross cash consideration of 238m, comprising 236m of cash consideration and 2m of fees.
On 2 August 2010 a net adjustment in respect of working capital and customer numbers was agreed between the Group and Tiscali S. p. A.
This resulted in an adjustment to goodwill of 14m.
The carrying value of goodwill in the prior year has been restated to 162m in line with the requirements of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements see note 29.
There have been no subsequent changes to the fair value adjustments disclosed in the Non-Statutory financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010.
There were net cash inflows of 14m in the year ended 31 March 2011 in respect of the settlement of the adjustment to the consideration.
Net cash outflows in the year ended 31 March 2010 comprised gross cash consideration of 238m offset by 3m of cash acquired.
ii Other acquisitions The Group acquired Opal 2CCH Limited formerly 2 Circles Communications Holdings Limited and Southern Communications Limited for cash consideration net of cash acquired of 2m and deferred consideration of 2m, which resulted in acquisition intangibles of 2m and goodwill of 3m.
The impact of these acquisitions on the results of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011 had the businesses been acquired on 31 March 2010, is immaterial.
The Group has recognised a gain of 1m within its income statement in respect of the increase in fair value of the equity interest held in Opal 2CCH Limited at the acquisition date.
The goodwill of 3m was recognised relating to the future opportunities arising from the nature of the businesses and fit with the Groups existing operations.
The Group paid cash consideration of 1m in respect of V Networks Limited deferred consideration and dealer buyouts which resulted in goodwill and acquisition intangibles of 1m.
In the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group acquired UK Telco Limited for cash consideration of 5m and deferred consideration of 1m as restated, which resulted in acquisition intangibles of 2m and goodwill of 4m as restated.
The 1m deferred consideration was paid in the year ended 31 March 2011.
The impact of this acquisition on the results of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2010, and had the business been acquired on 31 March 2009, were immaterial.
The goodwill of 4m was recognised relating to the future opportunities arising from the nature of UK Telco GB Limiteds business and fit with the Groups existing operations.
iii Disposals On 19 April 2010 the Group entered into an agreement to sell its operations in Ireland for a consideration of 4m.
The profit on sale of the business has been offset by the impairment of goodwill recognised on the acquisition of Tele2 Ireland in 2006 of 2m and closure costs for the business of 2m, resulting in nil profit or loss on disposal.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Interest in joint venture On 10 September 2010 the Group entered into a joint venture agreement with The British Broadcasting Corporation, ITV Broadcasting Limited, British Telecom PLC, Channel Four Television Corporation, Arqiva Limited and Channel 5 Broadcasting Limited to form YouView TV Limited formerly Canvas Pro Tem Limited.
The Group holds 14.3% of the ordinary share capital of YouView TV Limited.
The joint venture has been set up in order to develop a new free-to-air internet-connected TV service to UK homes in 2012.
The table below sets out the net additions in the year.
Net assets m Opening balance at 1 April 2010 Initial recognition of investment Additions 5 Share of results 1 Closing balance at 31 March 2011 4 The Groups share of the results, assets and liabilities of its joint venture are as follows: 2011 2010 Group share of results of joint venture m m Revenue Expenses 1 Loss before taxation 1 Taxation Loss after taxation 1 2011 2010 Group share of net assets of joint venture m m 3 Non-current assets Cash and overdrafts net 2 Other liabilities 1 Net assets 4 At 31 March 2011 the Group had committed to pay 14m to YouView TV Limited payable over the three year period to 31 March 2014.
Inventories 2011 2010 m m Goods for resale 3 2 The difference between the balance sheet value of inventory and its replacement cost is considered by the Directors not to be material.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 73 16.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables comprise: 2010 2011 As restated m m Current trade and other receivables Trade receivables gross 109 160 Less provision for impairment 31 37 Trade receivables net 78 123 Other receivables 44 31 Prepayments and accrued income 33 26 Trade and other receivables 155 180 Loans to related parties 2 3 157 183 The prior year balance sheet has been restated to reflect the finalisation of the Tiscali UK acquisition purchase price note 29.
The Directors estimate that the carrying amount of trade receivables approximates to their fair value.
Loans to related parties at 31 March 2011 comprise a loan to Future Office Communications Limited 2010 : Opal 2CCH Limited and Ecocall Limited, an associated company of the Group.
The average credit period taken on trade receivables, calculated by reference to the amount owed at the year end as a proportion of total revenue in the year, adjusted to take account of the timing of acquisitions, was 19 days 2010 : 29 days.
The Groups trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2011 2010 m m UK Sterling 102 150 Other 7 10 109 160 The ageing of gross trade receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Not yet due 59 102 0 to 2 months 20 22 2 to 4 months 10 8 Over 4 months 20 28 109 160 The ageing of the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Not yet due 3 2 0 to 2 months 5 7 2 to 4 months 6 6 Over 4 months 17 22 31 37 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other receivables continued Movements in the provisions for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Opening balance 37 19 Charged to the income statement 33 25 Receivables written off as irrecoverable 39 23 Acquisition of subsidiaries 16 31 37 Trade receivables of 22m 2010 : 23m were past due but not impaired.
These balances primarily relate to Residential and Corporate fixed line customers.
The Group has made provisions based on historical rates of recoverability and all unprovided amounts are considered to be recoverable.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Not yet due 0 to 2 months 15 15 2 to 4 months 4 2 Over 4 months 3 6 22 23 17.
Trade and other payables 2010 2011 As restated m m Trade payables 112 115 Other taxes and social security costs 33 26 Other payables 34 23 Accruals and deferred income 197 236 376 400 The prior year balance sheet has been restated to reflect the finalisation of the UK Telco acquisition purchase price note 29.
The average credit period taken on trade payables, calculated by reference to the amounts owed at the balance sheet date as a proportion of the amounts invoiced by suppliers in the year, adjusted to take account of the timing of acquisitions, was 24 days 2010 : 25 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 75 18.
Cash and cash equivalents, loans and other borrowings a Cash and cash equivalents are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 1 1 The effective interest rate on bank deposits and money market funds was 0.6% 2010 : 0.4%.
b Loans and other borrowings comprise: 2011 2010 m m Current Bank overdrafts 9 9 Other uncommitted bank loans 35 10 44 19 2011 2010 Maturity m m Non-current 100m term loan 2015 100 100 550m revolving credit facility 2013 295 390 395 490 Details of the current and non-current borrowing facilities of the Group for the year are set out below.
Bank overdrafts: Overdraft facilities are used to assist in short-term cash management: these uncommitted facilities bear interest at a margin over the Bank of England base rate.
100m term loan: The Group has a committed Term Loan of 100m, which matures in March 2015.
The interest rate payable in respect of drawings under this facility is at a margin over LIBOR for the relevant currency and for the appropriate period.
The actual margin applicable to any drawing depends on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA calculated in respect of the most recent accounting period.
Covenants included in this facility restrict the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and require minimum levels of interest cover and fixed charges interest and operating lease expenditure cover.
The Group was in compliance with these covenants at the end of the current and prior year.
During the year the final maturity date on the loan was extended from 2013 to 2015.
550m revolving credit facility RCF : The Group has a committed RCF of 550m, which matures in March 2013.
Utilisation and non-utilisation fees are payable under this facility.
The Group was in compliance with these covenants at the end of the year.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Cash and cash equivalents, loans and other borrowings continued Borrowing facilities The Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities at the end of the year, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met, as follows: 2011 2010 Maturity m m Undrawn available committed facilities 2013 255 160 The book value and fair value of the Groups loans and other borrowings, all of which are in Sterling, are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Less than 1 year 44 19 1 to 2 years 295 2 to 3 years 490 3 to 4 years 100 439 509 Securities and guarantees None of the borrowings are secured over Group assets.
Although some guarantees are given by Group companies, these guarantees are to cover commercial obligations and, as such, create no additional credit risk.
Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments The book value and fair value of the Groups financial assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments, excluding the Groups loans and other borrowings shown above, are as follows: Book and fair value 2010 2011 As restated m m Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Trade and other receivables 155 180 Non-current investments and investment in joint venture 5 1 Trade and other payables 376 400 Loans to related parties 2 3 The prior year balance sheet has been restated to reflect the finalisation of the Tiscali UK and UK Telco acquisition purchase price note 29. a Financial instruments The Groups activities exposed it to a variety of financial risks including market risk such as currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group Treasury function used certain financial instruments to mitigate potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance from these risks.
These financial instruments primarily consisted of bank loans, interest rate swaps and foreign exchange swaps.
Other products, such as currency options, can also be used depending on the risks to be covered but have not been used in the current or preceding financial year.
The Group does not trade or speculate in any financial instruments.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 77 b Embedded derivatives No contracts with embedded derivatives have been identified and accordingly no such derivatives have been accounted for separately.
c Foreign exchange risk The Group uses forward currency contracts to hedge transactional exposures, which arise mainly through cost of sales and operating expenses, and are primarily denominated in Euro and US dollar.
The Group also uses short-term currency swaps for liquidity management.
At 31 March 2011, the sterling value of outstanding currency contracts was 23m 2010 : 49m.
Borrowings and foreign exchange contracts are sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates: this sensitivity can be analysed in comparison to year end rates adjusted for funding to related parties and assuming all other variables remain constant as follows: 2011 2010 m m 10% movement in the UK Sterling Euro exchange rate Income statement movement 2 Other equity movement The effect of foreign exchange derivatives on borrowings at the year end was as follows: UK Sterling Euro Other Total m m m m 2011 Borrowings before derivatives 439 439 Derivative 23 23 416 23 439 During the year the Group used derivatives for management of foreign currency cash balances held by overseas subsidiaries which were inherited from CPW on demerger.
UK Sterling Euro Other Total m m m m 2010 Borrowings before derivatives 509 509 Derivative 41 38 3 468 38 3 509 d Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises primarily from cash, cash equivalents and borrowings, all of which are at floating rates of interest and thus expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
These floating rates are linked to LIBOR and other interest rate bases as appropriate to the instrument and currency.
Future cash flows arising from these financial instruments depend on interest rates and periods for each loan or rollover.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued Cash and borrowings, as well as some foreign exchange products, are sensitive to movements in interest rates and such movements have been analysed in the table below by calculating the effect on the income statement and equity of one percentage point movement in the interest rate for the currencies in which most Group cash and borrowings are denominated.
Funding to related parties has been offset against gross borrowings in calculating these sensitivities.
This annualised analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the year end positions prevail throughout the year, and therefore may not be representative of fluctuations in levels of borrowings.
2011 2010 m m 1% movement in the UK Sterling interest rate Income statement movement 5 5 Other equity movement e Liquidity risk The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by regularly reviewing the long and short-term cash flow projections for the business against facilities and other resources available to it.
Headroom is assessed based on historical experience as well as by assessing current business risks, including foreign exchange movements.
Existing facilities do not expire until March 2013: it is Group policy to refinance debt maturities significantly ahead of maturity dates.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows assuming year end interest rates remain constant and that borrowings are paid in full in the year of maturity.
More than Less than 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m 2011 Loans and other borrowings 54 305 3 103 465 Derivative financial instruments payable 23 23 Derivative financial instruments receivable 23 23 Trade and other payables 376 376 More than Less than 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total As restated m m m m m m m 2010 Loans and other borrowings 33 14 504 551 Derivative financial instruments payable 49 49 Derivative financial instruments receivable 49 49 Trade and other payables 400 400 The prior year balance sheet has been restated to reflect the finalisation of the UK Telco acquisition purchase price note 29. f Credit risk The Groups exposure to credit risk is regularly monitored.
Debt, investments, foreign exchange and derivative transactions are all spread amongst a number of banks all of which have short or long-term credit ratings appropriate to the Groups exposures.
Trade receivables primarily comprise balances due from Residential and Corporate fixed line customers, and provision is made for any receivables that are considered to be irrecoverable.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 79 g Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 18, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 21 to 22.
The Groups Board reviews the capital structure on an annual basis.
As part of this review, the Board considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
The Group has a medium-term target gearing ratio of 75% to 100% determined as a proportion of net debt to equity.
The gearing ratio at 31 March 2011 of 106% 2010 : 130% was marginally above the higher end of the target range demonstrating progress towards our medium-term target.
The gearing ratio at the year end is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Debt 439 509 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Net debt 438 508 Equity 415 392 Net debt to equity ratio 106% 130% 20.
Provisions 2011 2010 m m Operating efficiencies 12 One Company integration 10 14 Property 9 9 Contract and other 15 24 46 47 2011 2010 m m Current 32 29 Non-current 14 18 46 47 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Provisions continued Operating One Company Contract and efficiencies integration Property other Total m m m m m 2011 Opening balance 14 9 24 47 Charged to income statement 12 6 1 19 Utilised in the year 10 2 10 22 Unwinding of discount 1 1 2 12 10 9 15 46 Operating One Company Contract and efficiencies integration Property other Total m m m m m 2010 Opening balance 6 2 8 Charged to income statement 11 11 Acquisition of subsidiaries 10 41 51 Utilised in the year 3 2 19 24 Released in the year 1 1 Unwinding of discount 1 1 2 14 9 24 47 Provisions are categorised as follows: a Operating efficiencies Operating efficiencies provisions relate principally to redundancy costs note 9 and are only recognised where plans are demonstrably committed and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken at the balance sheet date.
These provisions are typically expected to be utilised over the 12 months following announcement of the reorganisation.
b One Company integration One Company provisions relate principally to redundancy costs note 9 and are only recognised where plans are demonstrably committed and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken at the balance sheet date and onerous contract costs, where a decision has been made to exit a contract as part of the One Company reorganisation.
These provisions are typically expected to be utilised over the 12 to 24 months.
c Property Property provisions relate to dilapidations and similar property costs, and costs associated with onerous property contracts.
All such provisions are assessed by reference to the terms and conditions of the contract and market conditions at the balance sheet date.
Property provisions are expected to be utilised over the next nine years.
d Contract and other Contract and other provisions relate to onerous contracts and contracts with unfavourable terms arising on the acquisition of businesses and anticipated costs of unresolved legal disputes.
All such provisions are assessed by reference to the best available information at the balance sheet date.
Contract and other provisions are expected to be utilised over the next 24 months.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 81 21.
Share capital 2011 2010 2011 2010 million million m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each 914 914 1 1 In addition redeemable preference shares of 50,000 were issued as part of the demerger transaction and were redeemed in the year.
Reserves Retained Translation Demerger earnings and Share capital Share premium reserve reserve other reserves Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2010 1 586 60 513 378 392 Net profit for the year 35 35 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1 1 Recycling of translation reserve 4 4 Currency translation and cash flow hedges 1 1 Tax on items recognised directly in reserves note 7 2 2 Settlement of Group ESOT shares 1 1 Share-based payments reserve credit note 5 4 4 Equity dividends 15 15 At 31 March 2011 1 586 65 513 406 415 Retained Translation Demerger earnings and Share capital Share premium reserve reserve other reserves Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2009 59 529 232 702 Net loss for the year 3 3 Currency translation and cash flow hedges 1 1 Tax on items recognised directly in reserves note 7 1 1 Issue of share capital 1 986 987 Capital reduction 400 400 Share-based payments reserve credit note 5 4 4 Share-based payments reserve debit note 5 3 3 Equity dividends 251 251 Movement in demerger reserves 55 55 At 31 March 2010 1 586 60 513 378 392 As explained in note 1, the demerger reserve primarily reflects the profits or losses arising on the transfer of investments and net assets of CPW on demerger.
The ultimate Parent Company of the Group, TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC, was incorporated on 15 December 2009.
As discussed in note 1, TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC became the ultimate Parent Company of the Group during the prior year and these financial statements have been prepared as if this structure had been in place throughout the prior year.
On 29 March 2010 the Group became a separately listed entity on the London Stock Exchange, under a court approved scheme of arrangement under part 26 of the Companies Act.
Under this scheme the former Parent Company of the Group, CPW was delisted and a new Parent Company incorporated holding A and B shares in CPW.
This new Parent Company, TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC, paid a dividend of 182m to Carphone Warehouse Group plc, as part of the scheme of arrangement, representing the book value of the businesses that formed Carphone Warehouse Group plc.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Reserves continued Both the share capital and share premium in the new company arose as a result of the issuance of new shares in the Group to ordinary Shareholders of CPW.
As these shares were issued for nil consideration, both the share capital of 1m and share premium of 986m have been treated as arising from the demerger reserve.
On 29 March 2010 the share premium relating to the ordinary shares was reduced by 400m by way of a court-approved capital reduction.
This had the effect of creating distributable reserves which may be released at the discretion and upon the resolution of the Board.
The 55m movement in the demerger reserve during the year ended 31 March 2010 arose as a result of the restructuring of CPW.
As explained in the prospectus such movements have principally arisen from the allocation of operating expenses and profits arising in companies that form part of the TalkTalk Group after the demerger that related to the business of Carphone Warehouse Group plc, including the impact in 2009 of the Best Buy Europe Joint Venture Transaction, and dividends within CPW.
During the year ended 31 March 2010 equity dividends of 251m were paid.
Of this total, 27m represented the ordinary final dividend of CPW for the financial year ended 31 March 2009, 13m represented the ordinary interim dividend of CPW for the financial year ended 31 March 2010, and 29m represented a special interim dividend paid by CPW to its Shareholders prior to demerger.
The demerger dividend of 182m was paid by CPW to Carphone Warehouse Group plc as part of the demerger transaction, and represented the book value of assets transferred to Carphone Warehouse Group plc from CPW.
Net purchase of own shares The TalkTalk Telecom Holdings ESOT held 5 million shares at 31 March 2011 2010 : 10 million in the Company for the benefit of CPW former employees.
The Group ESOT has waived its rights to receive dividends and none of its shares have been allocated to specific schemes.
At the year end the shares had a market value of 7m 2010 : 13m.
Analysis of changes in net debt Exchange Opening Net cash flow movements Closing m m m m 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Bank overdrafts 9 9 8 8 Current loans and other borrowings 10 25 35 Non-current loans and other borrowings 490 97 2 395 500 72 2 430 Total net debt 508 72 2 438 Loans to related parties 3 1 2 Total net debt including loans to related parties 505 71 2 436 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 83 Exchange Opening Net cash flow movements Closing m m m m 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 6 5 1 Bank overdrafts 33 24 9 27 19 8 Current loans and other borrowings 10 10 Non-current loans and other borrowings 425 65 490 425 75 500 Total net debt 452 56 508 Loans to related parties 397 394 3 Total net debt including loans to related parties 55 450 505 During the prior year, the Group repaid funding of 425m and drew down 500m on new facilities.
Commitments under operating leases The Group leases network infrastructure and offices under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
There were no leases which were individually significant to the Group.
The Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum payments due as follows: 2011 2010 m m Less than 1 year 38 34 2 to 5 years 83 95 Greater than 5 years 56 48 177 177 25.
Capital commitments The Group had entered into the following amount of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment at the year end: 2011 2010 m m Expenditure contracted, but not provided for in the financial statements 14 29 26.
Pension arrangements The Group provides various defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of a significant number of its employees, the cost of which for the year ended 31 March 2011 was 3m 2010 : 3m.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Contingent liabilities As at the 31 March 2011 the Group is awaiting a decision from Ofcom as to what, if any, action it will take as result of its investigation of the Group in respect of General Condition 11 concerning certain bills the Group has issued to customers after they ceased to receive service from the Group.
No provision has been made in these financial statements as at it is uncertain both as to whether or not Ofcom will impose any financial penalty and the amount of such penalty.
Related party transactions During the year, the Group had the following disclosable transactions: Carphone Warehouse Other related Best Buy Europe Group plc parties m m m 2011 2 Loans owed to the Group 2010 Revenue for services provided 15 Expenses for services received 24 2 Net interest income 5 Loans owed to the Group 3 Other amounts owed to the Group 8 Amounts owed by the Group 18 1 Following the demerger of the Group from CPW and the adoption of IAS 24 Revised, Best Buy Europe and Carphone Warehouse Group plc are no longer considered related parties see note 1.
Other related parties comprises loans to Future Office Communications Limited 2010 : Opal 2CCH Limited and Ecocall Limited, associated undertakings of the Group.
Revenue for services provided during the prior year principally relates to telecommunication services.
Expenses for services received relate primarily to IT services and commissions on product sales.
All products and services were provided at market rates.
The remuneration of the Directors, who are key management personnel of the Group, is set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 38.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 85 29.
Restatement of comparative information During the year the following adjustments were agreed in respect of acquisitions: A net adjustment in respect of working capital and customer numbers was agreed between the Group and Tiscali S. p. A. for the acquisition of Tiscali UK.
The carrying value of goodwill of Tiscali UK in the prior year has been restated to 162m in line with the requirements of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements.
The deferred consideration on UK Telco Limited was finalised and settled.
This has resulted in an adjustment to goodwill of 1m.
The carrying value of goodwill of UK Telco in the prior year has been restated to 4m in line with the requirements of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements.
The comparative information has been restated to reflect the impact of this settlement, this only impacted the balance sheet.
A restated balance sheet for the year ended 31 March 2009 has not been presented as the above restatement did not impact that year.
Balance sheet at 31 March 2010 Restatement of UK Telco As previously Restatement of deferred reported Tiscali goodwill consideration As restated m m m m Non-current assets Goodwill 485 14 1 470 Other intangible assets 316 316 Property, plant and equipment 262 262 Non-current asset investments 1 1 Deferred tax assets 155 155 1,219 14 1 1,204 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Inventories 2 2 Trade and other receivables 166 14 180 Loans to related parties 3 3 172 14 186 Total assets 1,391 1 1,390 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 401 1 400 Corporation tax liabilities 42 42 Loans and other borrowings 19 19 Provisions 29 29 491 1 490 Non-current liabilities Loans and other borrowings 490 490 Provisions 18 18 508 508 Total liabilities 999 1 998 Net assets 392 392 Equity Share capital 1 1 Share premium 586 586 Translation reserve 60 60 Demerger reserve 513 513 Retained earnings and other reserves 378 378 Funds attributable to equity Shareholders 392 392 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
