Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Presentation of financial statements New IFRS standards and interpretations adopted From 1 April 2010 the Group has adopted the following new and General information amended IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations: The principal activity of Tate & Lyle PLC is the global provision of ingredients and solutions to the food, beverage and other industries.
IFRS 1 revised First time adoption It operates from more than 30 production facilities around the world.
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners Amendment to IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled Financial Statements in the United Kingdom.
The Company has its primary listing on the IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations London Stock Exchange.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment group cash-settled share-based payment transactions Basis of preparation Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation These consolidated financial statements are presented on the basis on classification of rights issues of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and the European Union and interpretations issued by the International Measurement eligible hedged items Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and have been IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers prepared in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Financial IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Services Authority and the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to The revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations includes the immediate companies reporting under IFRS.
expensing of acquisition-related costs rather than inclusion in goodwill, These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in and the recognition and measurement at fair value of contingent accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2 and under consideration at acquisition date with subsequent changes to income.
the historical cost convention modified to include revaluation of certain financial instruments and commodities, share options and pension The adoption of these revised standards has not had a material assets and liabilities.
impact on the Groups profit for the year and equity.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds New IFRS standards and interpretations not adopted sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentational currency.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations are not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of Amendment to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving Amendments to IFRIC 14, IAS 19, Prepayments of a Minimum a higher degree of judgement or complexity and areas where Funding Requirement assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments financial statements are disclosed in Note 3.
IFRS Annual Improvements 2010 Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The financial information for the year ended 31 March 2010 is on derecognition derived from the statutory financial statements for that year, except Amendments to IFRS 1 First time adoption financial certain comparative information has been re-presented to conform instrument disclosures with the current year presentation.
The adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations is Following a change in the organisational structure, the segments not expected to have a material impact on the Groups profit for those disclosed under the provisions of IFRS 8 Operating Segments have years or equity.
The adoptions may affect disclosures in the Groups been changed to Speciality Food Ingredients, Bulk Ingredients, Sugars financial statements.
The comparative segmental information for the year ended 31 March 2010 has been reclassified.
In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement which altered the classification Following the disposal of the EU Sugar Refining operations and measurement of financial instruments.
Under the new standard EUSugars to American Sugar Refining, Inc, the sale of Molasses only two possible classifications arise, rather than the four existing to W&R Barnett Ltd and the announcement of the proposed sale classifications currently available under IAS 39, and will result in all of Vietnam Sugar and commitment to sell the Israel operations, the financial assets being valued at amortised cost or fair value through Sugars segment has been reclassified as discontinued operations in profit and loss.
In October 2010, the IASB issued additions to IFRS the current and comparative periods.
In the current year, the assets 9 relating to financial liabilities.
The main change in the additions is and liabilities of Vietnam Sugar and the sugar operations in Israel have that in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, been included within assets and liabilities held for sale.
the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is There is no overall effect on the Groups comparative income recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, net assets or overall cash flows from continuing operations statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The standard from these re-presentations.
is not mandatory before 2013 year-ends and is yet to be endorsed by the European Union.
The adoption of this standard may impact Use of adjusted measures the Groups profit, equity and disclosures in the Groups Tate & Lyle presents adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings financial statements.
These measures are used by Tate & Lyle On 12 May, 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of arrangements for employees.
The terms adjusted and exceptional Interests in Other Entities which are all effective for accounting periods items are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group is still continuing be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other to assess the impact of these standards but initial assessments companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior suggest that while net profit and net assets will remain unchanged, the to, GAAP measurements of profit.
The term adjusted refers to the presentation of the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated relevant measure being reported, excluding exceptional items and the Statement of Financial Position will change significantly as IFRS 11 amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition of businesses.
prohibits the proportional consolidation of Joint Arrangements.
A reconciliation of statutory to adjusted information is provided in Note 43.
The parent company, Tate & Lyle PLC, has not adopted IFRS as its statutory reporting basis.
Audited financial statements for the parent company, prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, are set out on pages 112 to 117.
66 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 2 Group accounting policies b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Basis of consolidation currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the a Subsidiaries transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights and taking in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except into account the existence of potential voting rights.
Subsidiaries are when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the qualifying net investment hedges.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the c Group entities acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The recognised identifiable From 1 April 2004, the results and financial position of all the Groups assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The interest of minority currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: shareholders is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion i assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value adjustments of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent for each statement of financial position presented, are translated at liabilities recognised.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the the closing rate at the date of that statement of financial position: financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All inter-company ii income and expenses for each income statement including transactions and balances between Group entities are eliminated components of comprehensive income are translated at weighted on consolidation.
average exchange rates as a reasonable approximation to the rates prevailing on the transaction dates: and b Transactions and non-controlling interests The group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate transactions with equity owners of the group.
For purchases from component of equity.
non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration Prior to 1 April 2004, exchange differences were recognised in paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net retained earnings.
assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such c Joint ventures investments, are taken to equity.
An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint control over its operating and financial policies.
The Groups interests in jointlyWhen a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences that controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation, have accumulated since 1 April 2004 are recognised in the income whereby the Groups share of the joint ventures income and statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
These exchange expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows are combined on a differences comprise the exchange differences on all amounts line-by-line basis with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
deemed to be part of the net investment in the foreign operation, Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements which are recycled to the income statement when a disposal occurs.
of joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
The Group recognises the portion of gains Property, plant and equipment or losses on the sale of assets to the joint venture that is attributable Land and buildings mainly comprise manufacturing sites and to the other venturers.
The Group does not recognise its share of administrative facilities.
profits or losses from the joint venture that result from the Groups Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less purchase of assets from the joint venture until it resells the assets depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure to an external entity.
However, if a loss on the transaction provides that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of current assets, costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a or an impairment loss, the loss is recognised immediately.
separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future d Associates economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the An entity is regarded as an associate if the Group has significant Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All repairs influence, but not control, over its operating and financial policies.
and maintenance expenditures are charged to the income statement Significant influence generally exists where the Group holds more than during the financial period in which they are incurred.
20% and less than 50% of the shareholders voting rights.
Associates Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate are accounted for under the equity method whereby the Groups the cost or revalued amount of each asset to its residual value over income statement includes its share of their profits and losses and its useful economic life as follows: the Groups statement of financial position includes its share of their net assets.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial Freehold land: No depreciation statements of associates to bring the accounting policies used Freehold buildings: 20 to 50 years into line with those used by the Group.
When the Groups share of Leasehold property: Period of the lease losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, Bulk liquid storage tanks: 12 to 20 years including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not Plant and machinery: 3 to 28 years recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each between the group and its associates are eliminated to the extent statement of financial position date and adjusted if appropriate.
of the Groups interest in the associate.
Unrealised losses are also An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its eliminated on the same basis unless the transaction provides recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the Foreign currency translation disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the a Functional and presentational currency income statement.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic Leased assets environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group assumes The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as sterling, which is the Groups presentational currency.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding leasing commitments, net of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 67 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets other than goodwill are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately Leasing payments are analysed between capital and interest identifiable cash inflows.
Goodwill is allocated to units expected to components so that the interest element is charged to the income benefit from the synergies of the business combinations.
Further statement over the period of the lease at a constant periodic rate of details are given in Note 3. interest on the remaining balance of the liability outstanding.
Financial instruments Depreciation on assets held under finance leases is charged to the a Available-for-sale financial assets income statement, and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term Equity instruments held by the Group and designated as available-forand its useful life.
sale are carried at fair value, with movements in fair value recognised All other leases are treated as operating leases with annual rentals directly in equity.
Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, the charged to the income statement, net of any incentives granted to the assets are approximated at cost.
Cumulative fair value gains or losses lessee, over the term of the lease.
on an asset are recycled through the income statement when the asset is disposed or impaired.
A significant or prolonged decline in the Intangible assets fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator a Goodwill that the securities are impaired.
Impairments are recognised in the Goodwill is calculated as the difference between the fair value of the income statement.
consideration exchanged in a business combination, excluding directly b Loans and receivables attributable acquisition costs, and the net fair values of the identifiable Non-current and current receivables and loans granted are recognised assets and liabilities acquired and is capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for initially at fair value and thereafter carried at amortised cost less impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment provisions for impairment.
Movements in carrying value are recognised and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Where the acquired interest in the net fair value of the identifiable c Borrowings assets and liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where borrowings are designated as hedged items Gains and losses on the disposal of a business component include under fair value hedges, they are subsequently remeasured for fair the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
value changes in respect of the hedged risk with such changes recognised in the income statement.
Otherwise, borrowings are Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified as b Patents and other intellectual property current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer Patents and other intellectual property are shown at historical cost settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Preference shares, which are mandatorily redeemable assets are acquired as part of a business combination, historical on a specific date, are classified as liabilities.
The dividends on cost is based on their fair values as at the date of the combination.
these preference shares are recognised in the income statement Amortisation of the assets is recognised on a straight-line basis over as interest expense the period of their expected benefit which ranges from 5 to 15 years.
d Commodity trading instruments c Other acquired intangible assets Commodity instruments acquired for trading purposes are Other acquired intangible assets are intangible assets arising on initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is consolidation of acquired businesses and include brands, recipes, entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
customer relationships and supplier networks.
Amortisation of the Movements in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
assets is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of their e Commodity and treasury hedging instruments expected benefit which ranges from 5 to 15 years.
Under IAS 39, hedging relationships are categorised by type and d Other intangible assets must meet strict criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
Other intangible assets mainly include certain development i Cash flow hedges expenditure and software costs.
Costs incurred on development Hedges of firm commitments and highly probable forecast projects relating to the design and testing of new or improved transactions, including forecast intra-group transactions that are products are recognised as intangible assets when the IAS 38 expected to affect consolidated profit or loss, are designated as recognition criteria are met.
Capitalised development costs are cash flow hedges.
To the extent that movements in the fair values amortised from the commencement of the commercial production of these instruments effectively offset the underlying risk being of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected hedged they are recognised in other comprehensive income benefit.
Research and other development expenditures are until the period during which the hedged forecast transaction recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously affects profit or loss, at which point the cumulative gain or loss recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a is recognised in operating profit, offsetting the value of the subsequent period.
Impairment ii Fair value hedges Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation Hedges against the movement in fair value of recognised assets and are tested at least annually for impairment.
In addition, assets and liabilities are designated as fair value hedges.
To the extent in the course of construction are not depreciated and are subject to that movements in the fair values of these instruments effectively annual impairment review.
Assets that are subject to amortisation offset the underlying risk being hedged they are recognised in net or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or finance expense by offset against the hedged transaction.
changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may iii Hedges of net investments not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation are designated by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable as net investment hedges.
To the extent that movements in the amount.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an fair values of these instruments effectively offset the underlying impairment in previous periods are reviewed for possible reversal of risk being hedged they are recognised in the translation reserve the impairment at each reporting date.
The recoverable amount is the until the period during which a foreign operation is disposed of or higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
partially disposed of, at which point the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss, offsetting the cumulative difference recognised on the translation of the net investment.
68 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 2 Group accounting policies continued plans granted to employees under the Groups share option schemes.
The trustee of the ESOP trust purchases the Companys shares on Hedge accounting is discontinued at the point when the hedging the open market using loans made by the Company or other loans relationship no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
In the case of guaranteed by the Company.
cash flow hedging relationships, the cumulative movement in the fair value of the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity up to Trade payables that point is retained there until the forecast transaction affects profit Non-current and current trade payables are recognised initially at or loss, unless the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the in which case the cumulative movement in fair value is transferred effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment to profit or loss immediately.
Movements in the fair value of hedging instruments where the relationship fails to meet the IAS 39 hedge Provisions accounting criteria or where the movement represents the ineffective Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group portion of a qualifying hedging relationship are recognised in the has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past income statement immediately as other income and expense or net events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will finance expense, as appropriate.
be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably measured.
If the effect is material, provisions are measured using f Embedded derivatives expected future cash flows discounted at a pre-tax rate that reflects Where an embedded derivative is not closely related to the host current market assessments of the time value of money and, where contract and where the host contract itself is not already recognised appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The impact of unwinding at fair value, movements in the fair value of the embedded derivative any discount is taken to finance expense.
are separated from the associated transaction and, except where the embedded derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging instrument, Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
A provision recognised in the income statement.
for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable g Fair values cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Fair values are based on market values where they are available.
For unlisted securities the Group establishes fair value using Income taxes valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as transactions, reference to other similar instruments and discounted adjusted for items which are non-taxable or disallowed.
It is calculated cash flow analysis.
using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Where no market prices are available, the fair value of financial balance sheet date.
liabilities is calculated with reference to discounted expected Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method future cash flows.
in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements Inventories and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value profit.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable with the exception of certain items of merchandisable agricultural temporary differences except as noted below and deferred tax assets commodities which are stated at market value, in line with regional are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will industry accounting practices.
be available against which deductible temporary differences can be Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the differences arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction using the first in first out or weighted average cost methods, which affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
appropriate to the materials and production processes involved.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal marketing, selling and distribution.
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Trade receivables Non-current and current trade receivables are recognised initially at Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or substantively enacted fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the rates that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which Cash and cash equivalents case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income maturities of three months or less and, for the purposes of the cash taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to flow statement only, bank overdrafts are considered to be borrowings settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Revenue recognition Share capital a Sales of goods and services Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Sales comprise the amount receivable in the ordinary course of attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a business, net of value added and sales taxes, for goods and services deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Sales are recognised at the point or points at which the Group has performed its obligations in connection with the contractual Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity terms of the sales agreement primarily at the point of delivering to the share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury customer, and in exchange obtains the right to consideration.
shares or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income b Interest income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed.
the effective interest rate method.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any c Dividend income consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in is established.
equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
These shares are used to satisfy share options and long term share incentive Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 69 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, for Employee benefits options granted with non-market vesting conditions, the Group a Pension obligations revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to Group companies operate various pension schemes.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original are generally funded through payments to insurance companies, estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding or trustee payments to insurance companies or through trusteeadjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
premium when the options are exercised.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of Borrowing costs pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually Borrowing costs directly arising from the purchase, construction or dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service production of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group Exceptional items pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal Exceptional items comprise items of income and expense, including or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does tax items, that are material in amount and unlikely to recur and which not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to merit separate disclosure in order to provide an understanding of the employee service in the current and prior periods.
Examples of events giving rise to the disclosure of material items of income and expense as The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position in exceptional items include, but are not limited to, impairment events, respect of defined benefit pension plans are the net deficit and the disposals of operations or individual assets, litigation claims by or net surplus of the present value of the defined benefit obligation at against the Group and the restructuring of components of the Groups the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with operations.
See Note 7 for further details.
adjustments for actuarial gains or losses charged or credited to equity and past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated Government grants annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit A government grant is recognised when there is reasonable assurance credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is that any conditions attached to the grant will be satisfied and the determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using grants will be received.
A government grant is recognised at its fair interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated value and is accounted for as a deduction against the cost concerned in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms or within other income over the periods necessary to match the grants to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
with the related costs that they are intended to compensate.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees Dividend distribution remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
Final dividend distributions to the Companys equity holders are In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the basis over the vesting period.
period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Any gains or losses from settlement or curtailment is recognised in shareholders, while interim dividend distributions are recognised in the the income statement when the curtailment or settlement occurs.
period in which the dividends are declared and paid.
Where a scrip alternative is offered and taken, the distribution is effected through Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and an issue of bonus shares from the share premium account.
changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity immediately through the statement of comprehensive income.
Segment reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires that entities identify and report Where the actuarial valuation of a scheme demonstrates that the the financial performance of these operating segments.
Segment scheme is in surplus, the recognised asset is limited to that for which information is reported for those components for which separate the Group expects to benefit in future by refunds or a reduction financial information is available and which management uses in contribution.
internally for allocating resources and assessing performance.
In For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to addition to receiving information relating to the operating performance publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a of the business, principally sales and adjusted operating performance, mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further the Chief Operating Decision Maker receives information on the payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The segmental net working capital in order to assess the performance contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when of the segments.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to Following the change in the organisational structure announced in May the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments 2010, the Group restructured its internal organisation into four distinct is available.
segments: Speciality Food Ingredients, Bulk Ingredients, Sugars and b Other post-employment obligations Central costs.
Sugars was subsequently classified as discontinued.
Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare Management reporting has been realigned with this reorganisation benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually and, as a result, the segment information set out below reflects this conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement change.
Comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2010 age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected has been reclassified.
costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit Discontinued operations and assets held for sale pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience Business components that represent separate major lines of business adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or or geographical areas of operations are recognised as discontinued credited to equity immediately.
These obligations are valued annually if the operations have been disposed of, or meet the criteria to be by independent qualified actuaries.
classified as held for sale under IFRS 5. c Share-based compensation Assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based carrying amount will be principally recovered through a sale compensation plans.
The fair value of employee services received transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, expected to expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period be completed within one year and the asset or disposal group is is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Operations held excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for sale are held at the lower of their carrying amount on the date they for example, earnings targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are classified as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell.
70 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The income statement generally comprises a regular charge to operating profit and a finance charge, which represents the net of In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements expected income from plan assets and an interest charge on plan in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2, liabilities.
These calculations are based on expected outcomes at management has used estimates and judgements to establish the the start of the financial year.
The income statement is most sensitive amounts at which certain items are recorded.
Critical accounting to changes in expected returns from plan assets and the discount estimates and judgements are those that have the greatest impact rate used to calculate the interest charge on plan liabilities.
A 0.1% on the financial statements and require the most difficult, subjective increase in the assumption of the real discount rate would increase and complex judgements about matters that are inherently uncertain.
the net finance expense by approximately 0.2 million.
Estimates are based on factors including historical experience and expectations of future events that management believe to be Full details of these assumptions, which are based on advice from reasonable.
However, given the judgemental nature of such estimates, the Groups actuaries, are set out in Note 30. actual results could be different from the assumptions used.
The critical accounting estimates and judgements are set out below.
Provisions The Group recognises a provision where a legal or constructive Impairment of assets obligation exists at the balance sheet date and a reliable estimate Asset impairments have the potential to significantly impact operating can be made of the likely outcome.
Where appropriate, future cash profit.
In order to determine whether impairments are required the outflows that are expected to arise over a number of years are Group estimates the recoverable amount of the asset.
This calculation discounted to a present value using a relevant discount rate.
is usually based on projecting future cash flows over a five-year period At the balance sheet date, provisions included amounts for insurance and using a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth claims payable by the Groups reinsurance company, legal matters, thereafter.
A discount factor is applied to obtain a current value value employee termination and other restructuring costs.
The fair value less costs to sell of an asset is used if this results in an amount in excess of value in use.
Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted for managements best current estimates, the judgemental nature of Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are based on these items means that future amounts settled may be different from managements expectations of future volumes and margins based those provided.
on plans and best estimates of the productivity of the assets in their current condition.
Future cash flows therefore exclude benefits from Further details are set out in Note 31. major expansion projects requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure has not been approved at the balance sheet date.
Taxation The Group operates in a large number of tax jurisdictions around the Future cash flows are discounted using a discount rate based on the world.
Tax regulations generally are complex and in some jurisdictions Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate for agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years.
circumstances specific to the asset being tested.
The weighted Consequently, at the balance sheet date, tax liabilities and assets are average cost of capital is impacted by estimates of interest rates, based on managements best estimate of the future amounts that equity returns and market and country-related risks.
The Groups will be settled.
While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates weighted average cost of capital is reviewed on an annual basis.
recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from If the cash flow or discount rate assumptions were to change because those expected.
of market conditions, the level of impairment could be different and Deferred tax assets mainly arise from asset impairments and could result in the impairment of property, plant and equipment being retirement benefit obligations that the Group expects to recover increased or reversed, in part or in full, at a future date.
at some time in the future and by their nature the amounts recorded Further details are set out in Notes 15 and 16. are therefore dependent on managements judgement about future events.
Retirement benefits Further details are set out in Notes 11 and 29.
Among the range of retirement benefits provided in businesses around the Group are a number of defined benefit pension plans and an unfunded healthcare benefit scheme in the US.
The amounts recorded in the financial statements for both of these types of arrangement are based on a number of assumptions, changes to which could have a material impact on the reported amounts.
Any net deficit or surplus arising on defined benefit plans and the liability under the healthcare plan is shown in the statement of financial position.
The amount recorded is the difference between plan assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The group only recognises a surplus to the extent it has an unconditional right to a refund or a reduction in future contributions.
Plan assets are based on market value at that date.
Plan liabilities, including healthcare liabilities, are based on actuarial estimates of the present value of future pension or other benefits that will be payable to members.
The most sensitive assumptions involved in calculating the expected liabilities are mortality rates and the discount rate used to calculate the present value.
If the mortality rates assumption changed, a one year increase to longevity at age 65 would increase the liability by 61 million.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
If this assumption increased by 0.1%, the gross plan liabilities would decrease by approximately 18 million.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 71 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4 Segment information Following the change in the organisational structure announced in May 2010, the Group restructured its internal organisation into four distinct segments: Speciality Food Ingredients, Bulk Ingredients, Sugars and Central costs.
Management reporting has been realigned with this reorganisation and, as a result, the segment information set out below reflects this change.
Comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2010 has been reclassified.
Central costs, which include head office, treasury and reinsurance activities, do not meet the operating segment definition under IFRS 8 but have been disclosed as a reportable segment in the tables below to be consistent with internal management reporting.
Discontinued operations comprise previously disclosed International Sugar Trading and Eastern Sugar together with the Sugars division Note 12.
The segment results for the year to 31 March 2011 are as follows: Continuing operations Total from Speciality Discontinued continuing and Food Bulk Central operations discontinued Ingredients Ingredients costs Total Note 12 operations Notes m m m m m m Sales Total sales 916 1 987 2 903 590 3 493 Inter-segment sales 111 72 183 183 External sales note a 805 1 915 2 720 590 3 310 Operating profit loss Before exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets 206 157 42 321 2 319 Exceptional items 7 7 9 7 5 43 48 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 15 13 13 13 Operating profit loss 186 166 49 303 45 258 Net finance expense 58 58 Profit loss before tax 245 45 200 Segment assets note b 207 511 13 731 40 771 Unallocated assets: non-current assets 1 424 current assets 856 Total assets 3 051 Segment liabilities note b 106 237 61 404 8 412 Unallocated liabilities: non-current liabilities 1 236 current liabilities 430 Total liabilities 2 078 Other segment information Net working capital 101 274 48 327 32 359 Capital investments note c 26 34 16 76 8 84 Depreciation 34 55 2 91 9 100 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 18 18 18 Impairment charges 2 2 4 6 Share-based payments 9 1 8 9 9 a There were no customers that contributed more than 10% of the Groups external sales from continuing operations for the year ended 31 March 2011. b Segment assets and liabilities r elates to controllable working capital trade and other receivables, inventories and trade and other payables, as reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
All other assets and liabilities are reported within segment information as unallocated as these are not reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker at operations segment level.
c Capital investments comprise capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investments.
These items include amounts arising on acquisition of businesses.
72 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 4 Segment information continued The segment results for the year to 31 March 2010 are as follows: Continuing operations Total from Speciality Discontinued continuing and Food Bulk Central operations discontinued Ingredients Ingredients costs Total Note 12 operations Notes m m m m m m Sales Total sales 869 1 772 2 641 1 074 3 715 Inter-segment sales 81 27 108 108 External sales note a 788 1 745 2 533 1 074 3 607 Operating profit loss Before exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets 163 136 31 268 28 296 Exceptional items 7 66 237 5 298 22 276 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 15 14 14 14 Operating profit loss 83 101 26 44 50 6 Net finance expense income 72 1 71 Loss profit before tax 116 51 65 Segment assets note b 216 386 11 613 222 835 Unallocated assets: non-current assets 1 777 current assets 676 Total assets 3 288 Segment liabilities note b 90 198 37 325 161 486 Unallocated liabilities: non-current liabilities 1 555 current liabilities 393 Total liabilities 2 434 Other segment information Net working capital 126 188 26 288 61 349 Capital investments note c 25 40 5 70 22 92 Depreciation 39 58 2 99 17 116 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 18 2 20 20 Impairment charges 2 217 219 16 235 Share-based payments 9 4 4 1 5 a Two external customers contributed more than 10% of the Groups external sales from continuing operations for the year ended 31 March 2010.
The combined external sales for these customers were 553 million which have been recorded across all the reportable segments, excluding central costs.
b Segment assets and liabilities relates to controllable working capital trade and other receivables, inventories and trade and other payables as reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The United Kingdom is the home country of the parent.
Sales from continuing operations and non-current assets, other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets in the principal territories are as follows: External sales by destination External sales by origin Location of non-current assets Year to 31 March Year to 31 March Year to 31 March 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m United Kingdom 65 43 16 19 38 248 United States 1 746 1 652 1 948 1 841 660 735 Other European countries 432 426 451 425 327 372 Rest of world 477 412 305 248 156 202 Total 2 720 2 533 2 720 2 533 1 181 1 557 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 73 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 Sales from continuing operations Year to 31 March Analysis of sales by category: 2011 2010 Notes m m Sales of goods excluding share of sales of joint ventures 2 317 2 210 Share of sales of joint ventures 17 403 323 Total 2 720 2 533 6 Operating profit loss Continuing operations Year to 31 March Analysis by nature: 2011 2010 Notes m m External sales 2 720 2 533 Staff costs 9 247 213 Inventories: cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales 1 400 1 241 fair value loss on derivatives held for trading included in cost of sales 8 5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned assets 16 90 97 leased assets 16 1 2 Exceptional items 7 5 298 Amortisation of intangible assets: intangible assets arising on acquisition of businesses 15 13 14 other intangible assets 15 5 6 Operating lease rentals: plant and machinery 23 24 Research and development expenditure 25 26 Impairment of trade receivables 23 1 3 Reversal of impairment of trade receivables 23 1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 Government grant income 3 Ineffectiveness on derivative financial instruments: ineffectiveness loss on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 20 3 ineffectiveness gain on derivatives designated as net investment hedges 20 1 Other operating expenses 596 650 Total 2 417 2 577 Operating profit loss from continuing operations 303 44 Discontinued operations Year to 31 March Analysis by nature: 2011 2010 m m Notes External sales 590 1 074 Staff costs 9 28 49 Inventories: cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales 464 841 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned assets 16 9 17 Government grant income, including Transitional Aid 17 Exceptional items 7 43 22 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 4 Other operating expenses 87 156 Total 635 1 024 Operating loss profit from discontinued operations 12 45 50 74 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 7 Exceptional items Year to 31 March Exceptional items are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Continuing operations Gain on disposal, net of pre-disposal costs Fort Dodge note a 10 Impairment charges Fort Dodge note b 217 Business transformation costs note c 15 3 Closure and restructuring costs note d 55 UK Group Pension Scheme changes note e 5 Write-down of assets note f 28 Total 5 298 Discontinued operations Loss on disposal EU Sugars note g 55 Gain on disposal Molasses note h 12 UK Group Pension Scheme changes note e 37 Impairment charges note b 15 Total 43 22 The comparative figures for 2010 have been restated to reflect the disposal of EU Sugars and Molasses, which are presented as discontinued operations in both years.
a The Group has recorded a net exceptional gain of 10 million in respect of the mothballed ethanol facility at Fort Dodge, Iowa.
On 30 March 2011 the facility was sold for cash consideration of 36 million resulting in a gain on disposal of 15 million.
An exceptional charge of 25million had previously been booked early in the year in respect of onerous contracts relating to future obligations of the plant.
As a result of the disposal, 20 million of the resultant provision was no longer required and was reversed.
This exceptional gain is reported in the Bulk Ingredients segment.
b In the year ended 31 March 2010, following a detailed analysis of end markets, in light of costs of around 70 million to complete and commission the plant in Fort Dodge, Iowa, and factoring in the risks associated with future returns from operating the plant, the Group concluded that the plant was highly unlikely to be completed or commissioned in the foreseeable future.
As a result, the facility was mothballed and an impairment charge of 217 million recognised.
Of the 217 million charge, 209 million related to assets previously held in assets under construction and 8 million related to prepayments.
This exceptional item was reported in the Bulk Ingredients segment.
In the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group recognised an impairment charge of 15 million at its sugar refining business in Israel comprising a full write-down of the property, plant and equipment 11 million and an inventory impairment 4 million.
This impairment charge reflected anticipated future decline in the commercial prospects of Israel which is now reported within discontinued operations.
c The Group has recognised an exceptional charge of 15 million in relation to business transformation costs.
The Group incurred 6 million of charges in relation to the implementation of a common global IS IT platform, 4 million in relation to the relocation of employees and restructuring associated with the new Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, Illinois, and 5 million 2010 3 million of closure and other restructuring costs relating to the Food Systems business.
These costs are reported in the Bulk Ingredients 1 million, Speciality Food Ingredients 7 million and the Central costs 7million segments.
d In the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group recognised an exceptional charge in relation to the decision to mothball the sucralose manufacturing facility in McIntosh, Alabama.
The charge totalled 55 million and covered costs connected with redundancy, clean-up activities and ongoing fixed costs, and included provision for costs to final closure.
The exceptional item was reported in the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
e In the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group recognised an exceptional gain of 42 million in relation to changes announced to the Group Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom.
Of the total gain, 32 million related to negative past service costs following the removal of the discretionary early retirement benefit from November 2009 and 10 million related to a curtailment gain as a result of the closure of the scheme to future benefit accrual for employee members from 6 April 2011.
This exceptional item related to the Central costs 5 million and Sugars 37 million segments.
f In the year ended 31 March 2010, following a review of its portfolio of research and development projects, the Group wrote off 28 million in relation to assets from which it does not expect to receive a commercial benefit.
Of the 28 million, 20 million had previously been reported within property, plant and equipment, 6 million within intangible assets and 2 million within prepayments.
These assets related to operations reported in both the Bulk Ingredients 20 million and Speciality Food Ingredients 8 million segments.
g The Group recorded a loss of 55 million in relation to the disposal of EU Sugars.
Further details are set out in Note 37. h The Group recorded a gain of 12 million in relation to the disposal of Molasses.
Further details are set out in Note 37.
The tax impact on continuing net exceptional items is 10 million charge 2010 117 million credit.
The tax impact on the discontinued net exceptional items is a 19 million credit 2010 5 million charge.
Tax credits on exceptional costs are only recognised to the extent that losses incurred will result in tax recoverable in the future.
In addition, there has been an exceptional tax credit of 8 million in respect of the recognition of a deferred tax asset on unrealised profit in inventory following the restructuring of the business organisation.
There was an exceptional tax credit of 15 million in the year ended 31 March 2010 in respect of the release of various tax provisions following settlement of outstanding issues around the Group.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 75 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8 Auditors remuneration During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditors as detailed below: Year to 31 March 2011 2010 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.6 0.6 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.1 1.5 Total audit fees 1.7 2.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Other services relating to taxation 0.1 All other services 0.8 0.2 Total 2.7 2.4 In addition to the above, fees totalling 0.1 million 2010 0.1 million were paid to the Companys auditors in respect of the audit of Group pension schemes.
Included within fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates is 0.1 million 2010 0.3 million and within all other services 0.6 million 2010 nil relating to discontinued operations including the costs of vendor due diligence in respect of the disposal of Molasses.
9 Staff costs Staff costs for the Group during the year were as follows: Year to 31 March 2011 Year to 31 March 2010 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations Notes m m m m Wages and salaries 206 26 178 43 Social security costs 19 1 21 2 Other pension costs: defined benefit schemes 30 8 1 7 2 defined contribution schemes 2 1 1 retirement healthcare benefits 30 3 2 Share-based payments 26 9 4 1 Total 247 28 213 49 The average number of people employed by the Group, excluding associates employees and including a proportionate share of people employed by joint ventures, is set out below.
As required by the Companies Act 2006, this includes part-time employees: Year to 31 March 2011 2010 By business segment Speciality Food Ingredients 1 631 1 730 Bulk Ingredients 2 382 2 215 Central 293 280 Total 4 306 4 225 In addition, the average number of people employed relating to discontinued operations was 854 2010 1,394 The number of people employed by the Group at 31 March 2011 was 4,416 2010 5,666.
Included in these numbers are 305 2010 1,505 employees relating to discontinued operations.
Key management compensation Year to 31 March 2011 2010 m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 7 5 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 5 2 Share option gains 1 Total 13 9 Key management is represented by the Group Executive Committee and the Companys directors.
Remuneration details of the Companys directors are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 44 to 56.
Members of the Group Executive Committee are given on page 34.
The aggregate emoluments of directors in respect of qualifying services to the Company were 4 million 2010 4 million.
76 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 10 Finance income and finance expense Year to 31 March 2011 2010 Continuing Notes m m Finance income Interest receivable 3 2 Total finance income 3 2 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 45 54 Net finance expense arising on defined benefit retirement schemes: interest cost 30 76 76 expected return on plan assets 30 72 57 Finance lease charges 1 1 Unwinding of discounts in provisions 31 2 Fair value gains losses on interest-related derivative financial instruments: interest rate swaps fair value hedges 7 2 derivatives not designated as hedges 3 1 Fair value adjustment of borrowings attributable to interest rate risk 7 3 Recycle of cash flow hedge reserve in respect of borrowings repaid 6 Total finance expense 61 74 Net finance expense 58 72 Finance expense is shown net of borrowing costs capitalised into the cost of assets Note 16 of nil 2010 2 million at a capitalisation rate of 5.0%.
Interest payable on other borrowings includes 0.2 million 2010 0.2 million of dividends in respect of the Groups 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Discontinued Included within the loss for the year in relation to discontinued operations Note 12 is net finance income of nil 2010 1 million.
11 Income tax expense Analysis of charge for the year Year to 31 March 2011 2010 Continuing m m Current tax: In respect of the current year UK 1 overseas 3 33 Adjustments in respect of previous years 10 2 Exceptional tax credit 15 7 17 Deferred tax: deferred tax charge credit 64 112 exceptional tax credit 8 Income tax expense credit 49 95 The income tax charge relating to continuing operations in the year to 31 March 2011 of 49 million 2010 credit of 95 million includes a charge of 10 million in respect of pre-tax exceptional items 2010 117 million credit.
Included within current tax is a 10 million credit 2010 2 million principally relating to the settlement of prior year tax obligations in a number of jurisdictions.
The exceptional tax credit of 8 million represents the recognition of a deferred tax asset on unrealised profit in inventory following the restructuring of the Group.
15 million in 2010 represented releases of various tax provisions following settlement of outstanding issues around the Group.
The effective tax rate for the year, calculated on the basis of the total income tax charge relating to continuing operations as a proportion of profit before tax, is 19.7% 2010 income tax credit on loss before tax of 81.9%.
This compares with the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2010 28%.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom will reduce from 28% to 26% from 1 April 2011.
Discontinued The income tax credit in respect of discontinued operations Note 12 in the year to 31 March 2011 is 16 million 2010 11 million expense.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 77 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11 Income tax expense continued Year to 31 March 2011 2010 Continuing m m Profit loss before tax 245 116 Corporation tax charge credit thereon at 28% 2010 28% 69 32 Adjusted for the effects of: exceptional tax credit 8 15 income not taxable expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7 2 losses not recognised 15 16 adjustments to tax in respect of previous periods 10 different tax rates applied on overseas earnings 24 62 Total 49 95 The effective tax rate relating to continuing operations on profit before exceptional items, amortisation and exceptional tax items is 18.5% 2010 20.8%.
Tax charge credit relating to components of other comprehensive income Year to 31 March 2011 2010 Notes m m Retirement benefit obligations 19 29 Cash flow hedges 5 4 Tax losses 22 Other 2 Tax credit relating to components of other comprehensive income 25 Current tax Deferred tax 29 25 Tax on items recognised directly in equity Year to 31 March 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax credit on share-based payments 1 1 Total 1 1 12 Discontinued operations On 1 July 2010, the Group announced its intention to sell all the businesses within the Sugars segment.
Accordingly, the results of these Sugars businesses are presented as discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2011 and 31March 2010.
On 30 September 2010, the Group completed the disposal of EU Sugars to American Sugar Refining, Inc. On 3 December 2010, the Group completed the disposal of Molasses to W&R Barnett Ltd. On 20 April 2011, the Group announced that it had entered into a conditional contract to dispose of Vietnam Sugar to TH Milk Food Joint Stock Company for cash consideration of approximately 33 million together with the Groups proportionate share of cash and working capital.
The results of the Israel and Vietnam Sugar are presented within the Other category for both periods.
Year to 31 March 2011 International EU Sugar Sugars Molasses Trading Other Total Notes m m m m m Sales 330 141 18 101 590 Operating loss profit before exceptional items 2 7 11 4 2 Exceptional items 7 55 12 43 Operating loss profit 57 19 11 4 45 Finance income 1 1 Finance expense 1 1 Loss profit before tax 57 19 12 5 45 Income tax credit expense 22 1 5 16 Loss profit for the year 35 18 12 29 Non-controlling interests 1 3 4 Loss profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 35 17 12 3 33 78 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 12 Discontinued operations continued Year to 31 March 2010 International EU Sugar Sugars Molasses Trading Other Total m m m m m Sales 689 228 101 56 1 074 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 14 14 3 3 28 Exceptional items 37 15 22 Operating profit loss 51 14 3 12 50 Finance income 2 1 3 Finance expense 2 2 Profit loss before tax 53 15 5 12 51 Income tax expense credit 12 2 3 11 Profit loss for the year 41 13 5 9 40 Non-controlling interests 1 3 4 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company 41 12 5 12 36 Net cash flows from discontinued operations are as follows: Year to 31 March 2011 International EU Sugar Sugars Molasses Trading Other Total m m m m m Net cash used in generated from operating activities 85 11 17 13 100 Net cash used in generated from investing activities 5 1 1 5 Net cash used in financing activities 16 1 1 18 Year to 31 March 2010 International EU Sugar Sugars Molasses Trading Other Total m m m m m Net cash generated from used in operating activities 110 28 25 2 115 Net cash used in generated from investing activities 17 2 1 18 Net cash used in financing activities 45 1 1 47 13 Earnings per share Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held in the Employee Share Ownership Trust or in Treasury.
Year to 31 March 2011 Year to 31 March 2010 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company million 196 33 163 21 36 15 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue millions 461.5 461.5 461.5 457.0 457.0 457.0 Basic earnings loss per share 42.6p 7.3 p 35.3p 4.7 p 8.0p 3.3p Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all potential dilutive ordinary shares.
Potential dilutive ordinary shares arise from share options, and the Groups long term share incentive plans.
For nonperformance related share plans, a calculation is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
For performance related share plans, a calculation is performed to determine the satisfaction or otherwise, of the forecast performance conditions at the end of the reporting period, and the number of shares which would be issued based on the forecast status at the end of the reporting period.
Year to 31 March 2011 Year to 31 March 2010 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company million 196 33 163 21 36 15 Weighted average number of diluted shares in issue millions 468.8 468.8 468.8 457.0 457.0 457.0 Diluted earnings loss per share 41.9p 7.2 p 34.7p 4.7 p 8.0p 3.3p The adjustment for the dilutive effect of share options at 31 March 2011 was 7.3 million shares 2010 nil.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 79 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13 Earnings per share continued Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share is stated excluding exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets as follows: Year to 31 March Notes 2011 2010 Continuing operations Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company million 196 21 Adjustments million : exceptional items 7 5 298 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 15 13 14 tax effect of the above adjustments 8 121 exceptional tax credit 11 8 15 Adjusted profit million 214 155 Adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing operations 46.5p 33.9p Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 45.7p 33.7p For the purposes of the adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the year ended 31 March 2010, the adjustment for the dilutive effect of share options was 2.3 million.
14 Dividends Year to 31 March 2011 2010 Dividends paid on ordinary equity shares million : final paid relating to prior year 74 74 interim paid relating to current year 31 31 Total dividend paid 105 105 Satisfied by: cash million 70 103 scrip dividend million note a 35 2 Total 105 105 The total ordinary dividend is 23.7p 2010 22.9p made up as follows: interim dividend paid 6.8p 6.8p final dividend proposed note b 16.9p 16.1p Total 23.7p 22.9p a During the year, shareholders were given the option to receive the final dividend relating to the prior year and the interim dividend relating to the current year in the form of a scrip issue.
On 30 July 2010 and 7 January 2011, the Group issued 5,716,625 shares and 1,601,272 shares respectively for scrip at a nominal value per share of 25p and a cash equivalent value of 35 million.
Further detail is disclosed in Note 24. b The final dividend pr oposed for the year of 79 million 2010 74million, based on the number of shares outstanding as at 31 March 2011 has not been recognised as a liability and will be paid, subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting, on 5 August 2011 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members on 1 July 2011.
80 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 15 Goodwill and other intangible assets Other acquired Total Other intangible acquired intangible Goodwill Patents assets intangibles assets Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2010 230 33 127 390 32 422 Additions at cost 12 12 Transfer to assets held for sale 2 2 2 Disposals and write-offs 2 2 3 5 Exchange 6 4 10 1 11 At 31 March 2011 222 33 121 376 40 416 Accumulated amortisation and impairments At 1 April 2010 23 40 63 19 82 Amortisation charge 2 11 13 5 18 Disposals and write-offs 2 2 Exchange 2 2 2 At 31 March 2011 25 49 74 22 96 Net book value at 31 March 2011 222 8 72 302 18 320 Cost At 1 April 2009 240 33 132 405 34 439 Additions at cost 1 1 6 7 Disposals and write-offs 7 7 Exchange 10 6 16 1 17 At 31 March 2010 230 33 127 390 32 422 Accumulated amortisation and impairments At 1 April 2009 20 31 51 14 65 Amortisation charge 3 11 14 6 20 Disposals and write-offs 1 1 Exchange 2 2 2 At 31 March 2010 23 40 63 19 82 Net book value at 31 March 2010 230 10 87 327 13 340 Goodwill The carrying amounts of goodwill by segment are as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 m m Speciality Food Ingredients note a 80 81 Bulk Ingredients 1 1 Allocated by geography: United States note b 57 60 Europe note c 84 88 Total 222 230 Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment.
Although cash flows have been identified for certain individual plants for the purposes of assessing the recoverable amounts, the business is managed as a network in the United States and Europe, with a large amount of interdependency between plants with plants servicing both the Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients segments.
As a result, except as noted, it is not possible to allocate goodwill to either the Bulk Ingredients or the Speciality Food Ingredients segments.
Therefore, goodwill is tested for impairment on a geographical basis except where goodwill can be allocated to an identifiable separate CGU.
Unless otherwise stated, impairment reviews are carried out in accordance with the methodology set out in Notes 2 and 3 using cashflows based on the latest Board approved management projections.
a Goodwill within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment includes 48 million 2010 48 million relating to the acquisition of G. C. Hahn & Co. in June 2007, 18 million 2010 18 million relating to the acquisition of the Cesalpinia Foods group in December 2005 and 12 million 2010 13 million relating to the acquisition of Continental Custom Ingredients in January 2006.
These businesses have been tested for impairment and a pre-tax discount rate of 11% 2010 11%.
Zero growth was assumed in perpetuity.
Management has concluded that no impairment is required.
The remaining goodwill relates to a number of smaller acquisitions, each of which has been tested for impairment using management projections for five years, pre-tax discount rates of 11% 2010 11%, and zero growth assumed in perpetuity.
b Goodwill relating to the United States includes 57 million 2010 60 million relating to the Staley acquisition in 1988, which is treated as one CGU for impairment testing purposes.
Cash flows used were based on the latest approved plans for five years discounted using a pre-tax rate of 11% 2010 11%.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 81 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 15 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued c Goodwill relating to Europe includes 84 million 2010 86 million relating to the acquisition in 2000 of the minority of 34% of shares of the former Amylum business.
Although cash flows have been identified for certain individual plants for the purposes of assessing the recoverable amounts of property, plant and equipment as described in Note 16 the business is treated as one CGU for impairment testing purposes.
The goodwill in the former Amylum business has been tested for impairment using a pre-tax discount rate of 11% 2010 11%.
Management considers that no reasonably possible change in any of the assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of goodwill attached to the above CGUs to fall below their carrying value.
Other intangible assets Included in other intangible assets are 2 million 2010 nil of assets under construction in relation to the implementation of a common global IS IT platform.
16 Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Land and Plant and course of buildings machinery construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 April 2010 578 2 349 345 3 272 Additions at cost 3 11 53 67 Transfers on completion 3 50 53 Transfer to assets held for sale 11 57 68 Disposals and write-offs 3 12 211 226 Businesses sold 114 346 39 499 Exchange and other movements 23 102 17 142 At 31 March 2011 433 1 893 78 2 404 Accumulated depreciation and impairments At 1 April 2010 292 1 564 208 2 064 Depreciation charge 14 86 100 Transfer to assets held for sale 4 42 46 Impairment losses and write-downs 3 1 4 8 Disposals and write-offs 12 195 207 Businesses sold 72 206 4 282 Exchange and other movements 12 63 13 88 At 31 March 2011 221 1 328 1 549 Net book value at 31 March 2011 212 565 78 855 Cost At 1 April 2009 591 2 394 345 3 330 Additions at cost 2 12 68 82 Transfers on completion 6 44 50 Disposals and write-offs 1 13 1 15 Exchange and other movements 20 88 17 125 At 31 March 2010 578 2 349 345 3 272 Accumulated depreciation and impairments At 1 April 2009 288 1 493 1 1 782 Depreciation charge 15 101 116 Impairment losses and write-downs 31 209 240 Disposals and write-offs 1 13 14 Exchange and other movements 10 48 2 60 At 31 March 2010 292 1 564 208 2 064 Net book value at 31 March 2010 286 785 137 1 208 Additions to property, plant and equipment includes capitalised borrowing costs of nil 2010 2 million.
Impairment losses It is the Groups policy to test assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
82 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 16 Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment reviews 2011 The Groups European businesses are a major supplier of sweeteners which operates in competition to sugar throughout the Continent.
Following the disposal of five European starch plants in October 2007, the Group carried out an impairment review in respect of the remaining CGUs at 31 March 2011.
The recoverable amount was based on value in use, calculated based on estimated future cash flows using managements internal forecasts of future margins for the next five years.
The pre-tax discount rate used was 11% 2010 11% and a zero growth rate assumed in perpetuity.
Taking all factors into account management concluded that no further impairment or reversal of previous impairments was required.
During the year, the Group carried out an impairment review in respect of its Dayton plant which manufactures citric acid in light of changes to the regulatory and competitive environment in which it operates.
The recoverable amount was based on value in use, calculated based on estimated future cash flows using managements internal forecasts of future margins for the next five years and applying a terminal value.
The pre-tax discount rate used was 11%.
2010 In the year ended 31 March 2010, following a detailed analysis of end markets, in light of costs of around 70 million to complete and commission the plant in Fort Dodge, Iowa, and factoring in the risks associated with future returns from operating the plant, the Group concluded that the plant was highly unlikely to be completed or commissioned in the foreseeable future.
As a result, the facility was mothballed.
An impairment review was carried out and as a result an impairment charge of 209 million against assets under construction as part of the impairment charge of 217 million was recognised as an exceptional item.
This exceptional item related to the Bulk Ingredients segment.
The recoverable amount was based on value in use, calculated using the expected cash flow approach, weighted for the potential timings of completion and commissioning the plant, and using managements internal forecasts of future cash flows for five years, a pre-tax discount rate of 11% and a zero growth rate assumed in perpetuity.
In the year ended 31 March 2010, following a review of its portfolio of research and development projects, the Group decided to write down assets relating to operations in the Bulk Ingredients segment resulting in an impairment write-down of 20 million relating to Plant and Machinery being recognised in exceptional items.
In the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group carried out a further review of its sugar refining operation in Israel as a result of the deterioration of the margins driven by record high sugar prices and a surplus of EU beet sugar being exported into the Israel domestic market.
The recoverable amount was based on value in use, calculated based on managements internal forecasts of future cash flows for the remainder of the operations contractual life and a pre-tax discount rate of 13% 2010 13%.
An impairment of 11 million was recognised in exceptional items that year.
Leased assets Included in property, plant and equipment is plant and machinery held under finance leases with a net book value of 11 million 2010 13 million.
17 Investments in associates and joint ventures Associates Notes m At 1 April 2009 8 Exchange and other movements 1 At 31 March 2010 7 Disposals of businesses 37 2 At 31 March 2011 5 The Groups associates, which are accounted for under the equity method, are listed in Note 42.
During the year, the Group disposed of its investment in Eridania Tate & Lyle SpA for 3 million proceeds.
The carrying value was 2 million at the date of disposal Note 37.
The amounts equity accounted in the Group income statement and statement of financial position are summarised below: Income statement Year to 31 March 2011 2010 m m Sales 4 5 Expenses 4 5 Profit before and after tax Statement of financial position 31 March 2011 2010 m m Assets 10 12 Liabilities 5 5 Net assets 5 7 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 83 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 17 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued Joint ventures The Groups joint ventures are proportionately consolidated and the continuing businesses are listed in Note 42.
The amounts proportionately consolidated in the Group income statement and statement of financial position are summarised below: Income statement Year to 31 March 2011 Year to 31 March 2010 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations Notes m m m m Sales 5 403 3 323 6 Other expense 344 7 273 3 Profit loss before tax 59 4 50 3 Income tax expense 14 9 Profit loss for the year 45 4 41 3 Statement of financial position 31 March 2011 2010 m m Assets Non-current assets 175 174 Cash and cash equivalents 74 61 Other current assets 158 118 407 353 Liabilities Non-current borrowings 7 5 Other non-current liabilities 23 18 Current borrowings 11 10 Other current liabilities 69 57 110 90 Net assets 297 263 18 Available-for-sale financial assets m At 31 March 2009 39 Additions 3 Fair value loss 10 At 31 March 2010 32 Additions 5 Disposal of businesses 1 Fair value gain 1 Exchange 1 At 31 March 2011 36 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 Notes m m Non-current available-for-sale financial assets 19 14 Current assets held for sale 38 17 18 Total 36 32 Available-for-sale financial assets primarily comprise 36 million 2010 32 million of unlisted securities.
The fair values of non-current availablefor-sale financial assets are approximated at cost where fair value can not be reliably measured.
The fair values of current assets held for sale are based on managements valuation of expected proceeds based on a signed share sale agreement.
The carrying value of the available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 2011 2010 m m Saudi riyal note a 14 15 US dollar note b 12 9 Sterling 8 6 Euro 2 2 Total 36 32 a Saudi riyal comprises 14 million 2010 15 million of assets classified as held for sale in current assets.
b US dollar includes 3 million 2010 3 million of assets classified as held for sale in current assets.
84 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 19 Financial instruments by category Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010.
31 March 2011 Derivatives and other items in a Total Amortised hedging Held for Availablecarrying Fair cost relationship trading for-sale value value Notes m m m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 18 19 19 19 Trade and other receivables 23 274 274 274 Cash and cash equivalents 33 654 654 654 Derivative financial instruments assets 20 42 141 183 183 Borrowings 28 736 378 1 114 1 154 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 20 55 127 182 182 Trade and other payables 27 400 400 400 Total 208 391 14 19 566 606 31 March 2010 Derivatives and other items in a Total Amortised hedging Held for Availablecarrying Fair cost relationship trading for-sale value value Notes m m m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 18 14 14 14 Trade and other receivables 23 398 398 398 Cash and cash equivalents 33 504 504 504 Derivative financial instruments assets 20 48 151 199 199 Borrowings 28 819 490 1 309 1 318 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 20 75 117 192 192 Trade and other payables 27 465 465 465 Total 382 517 34 14 851 860 Trade and other receivables presented above excludes 18 million 2010 28 million relating to prepayments.
Trade and other payables presented above excludes 7 million 2010 12 million relating to social security.
At 31 March 2010, 9 million in respect of deferred income relating to Transitional Aid was excluded.
Included in borrowings are other items in a hedging relationship which are held at amortised cost with a fair value adjustment applied, as they are in a fair value hedge.
Fair value hierarchy Set out below is how the Groups financial instruments measured at fair value, fit within the following fair value hierarchy: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 : inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly level 2 : inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data level 3.
The following tables illustrate the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010: 31 March 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 18 19 19 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 20 16 16 interest rate swaps 20 40 40 forward foreign exchange contracts 20 10 10 commodity pricing contracts 20 53 50 14 117 Assets at fair value 53 116 33 202 Liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 20 46 46 interest rate swaps 20 14 14 forward foreign exchange contracts 20 10 10 commodity pricing contracts 20 21 77 14 112 Borrowings 378 378 Liabilities at fair value 21 525 14 560 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 85 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19 Financial instruments by category continued 31 March 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 18 14 14 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 20 28 28 interest rate swaps 20 38 38 forward foreign exchange contracts 20 4 4 commodity pricing contracts 20 61 58 10 129 Assets at fair value 61 128 24 213 Liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 20 58 58 interest rate swaps 20 17 17 forward foreign exchange contracts 20 10 10 commodity pricing contracts 20 86 18 3 107 Borrowings 490 490 Liabilities at fair value 86 593 3 682 Level 1 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets commodity futures is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
Level 2 financial instruments The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, commodity pricing contracts and forward foreign exchange contracts are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
The fair value of interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts is calculated as the present value of the future cash flows based on observable inputs drawn from interest yield curves sourced from a reputable third party source.
The amount shown within level 2 for borrowings only includes those borrowings which are designated as hedged items in fair value hedges with respect to interest rate risk and whose carrying amount is adjusted for the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Level 3 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments is based on unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity at the balance sheet date.
These inputs generally reflect the entitys own assumptions about how a market participant would reasonably be expected to determine the price of a financial instrument.
For commodity pricing contracts, in evaluating the significance of fair value inputs, the Group generally classifies assets or liabilities as level 3 when their fair value is determined using unobservable inputs that individually, or when aggregated with other unobservable inputs represent more than 10% of the fair value of the observable inputs of the assets or liabilities.
Available-for-sale financial assets which are analysed at level 3 primarily represent investments in unlisted securities.
The fair values of the unlisted securities are approximated at cost.
Hence, value is adjusted only for permanent impairment and for no other movement.
For financial instruments in level 3, the Group does not consider that changes to inputs to reasonable alternatives would have a material impact on the income statement or equity.
The following table reconciles the movement in the Groups financial instruments classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy: Commodity Commodity pricing pricing Availablecontracts contracts for-sale assets liabilities assets Total m m m m At 1 April 2009 21 11 32 Total gains or losses in operating profit 10 3 7 Purchases 3 3 Settlements 21 21 At 31 March 2010 10 3 14 21 Total gains or losses: in operating profit 14 14 in other comprehensive income 1 1 Purchases 5 5 Settlements 10 3 1 8 At 31 March 2011 14 14 19 19 86 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 20 Derivative financial instruments 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Non-current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile Currency swaps: net investment hedges 43 fair value, net investment and cash flow hedges 51 held for trading 12 1 16 2 Interest rate swaps: fair value hedges 24 22 3 held for trading 10 11 9 11 46 55 47 67 Current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile Currency swaps accrued interest 4 2 12 5 Interest rate swaps accrued interest 6 3 7 3 10 5 19 8 Total derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile 56 60 66 75 Other non-current derivative financial instruments Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 1 1 1 Commodity pricing contracts cash flow hedges 1 1 2 1 2 Other current derivative financial instruments Forward foreign exchange contracts: cash flow hedges 9 9 3 6 held for trading 4 Commodity pricing contracts: cash flow hedges 3 1 2 7 held for trading 113 111 126 100 125 121 131 117 Total other derivative financial instruments 127 122 133 117 Total derivative financial instruments 183 182 199 192 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: Non-current derivative financial instruments 48 56 49 67 Current derivative financial instruments 135 126 150 125 183 182 199 192 The ineffective portion recognised in operating profit that arises from cash flow hedges amounts to nil 2010 3 million loss.
The ineffective portion recognised in operating profit that arises from net investment hedges amounts to nil 2010 1 million gain.
The ineffective portion recognised in net finance expense that arises from fair value hedges amounts to nil 2010 1 million gain.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 87 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 Derivative financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges The Group employs forward foreign exchange contracts and commodity pricing contracts to hedge cash flow risk associated with forecast transactions.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts are as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 m m Euro 6 68 US dollar 33 30 Sterling 1 75 Singapore dollar 30 25 Other 3 4 Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity Note 25 on forward foreign exchange and commodity pricing contracts as of 31 March 2011 will be released to the income statement at various dates up to 17 months from the balance sheet date.
Fair value hedges The Group employs currency and interest rate swap contracts to hedge the currency and interest rate risks associated with its borrowings.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate and currency swap contracts applied in fair value hedging relationships as of 31 March 2011 were 353 million and nil respectively 2010 364 million and 100 million respectively.
Net investment hedges The Group employs currency swap contracts to hedge the currency risk associated with its net investments in subsidiaries located primarily in the USA and Europe.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts applied in net investment hedging relationships as of 31 March 2011 were 290 million 31 March 2010 298 million.
Within net investment hedging gains, a fair value gain of 7 million 2010 6million gain on translation of the currency swap contracts to pounds sterling at the balance sheet date was recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity Note 25.
In addition, at 31 March 2011, of the Groups borrowings, a total of 351 million 2010 564 million is designated as hedges of the net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
Debt-related derivatives held for trading Certain currency swap contracts associated with the partial repurchase of the 6.5% Guaranteed Notes 2012 were closed out during the year ended 31 March 2010 by entering into offsetting currency swap contracts.
These swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The notional amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts not designated within hedge relationships as at 31 March 2011 were 192 million 2010 203 million.
Some of the Groups interest rate swap contracts hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate risk, but do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The notional amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts not designated within hedge relationships as of 31 March 2011 were 218million 2010 231 million.
Trading contracts Commodity pricing contracts held for trading relate to the Groups commodity trading activities which are undertaken for the purposes of supporting underlying operations.
Foreign exchange contracts held for trading are undertaken to hedge anticipated future contractual cash flows within the Groups cereal sweetners and starches business.
88 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 21 Financial risk factors Management of financial risk The key financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks, which include interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and certain commodity price risks.
The Board regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and sets overall risk limits.
The Chief Financial Officer retains the overall responsibility for management of financial risk for the Group.
Most of the Groups financing, interest rate and foreign exchange risk are managed through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, whose operations are controlled by its board.
The treasury company is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and has other board members who are independent of the treasury function.
The board of Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC approves policies and procedures setting out permissible funding and hedging instruments, and a system of authorities for the approval of transactions and exposures within the limits approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Group interest rate and currency exposures are concentrated either in the treasury company or in appropriate holding companies through marketrelated transactions with Group subsidiaries.
These positions are managed by the treasury company within its authorised limits.
Commodity price risks are managed through divisional commodity trading functions in the USA and Europe.
These functions are controlled by divisional management who are responsible for ratifying general strategy and overseeing performance on a monthly basis.
Commodity price contracts are categorised as being held either for trading or for hedging price exposures.
Commodity contracts held for trading within the Group are limited, confined only to tightly controlled areas within the corn pricing areas.
The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency, swaptions, caps, forward rate agreements, financial and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
Market risks Foreign exchange management Tate & Lyle operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from commercial transactions transaction exposure, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in overseas operations translation exposure.
Transaction exposure The Groups policy requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional currency exposures against their functional currency once the transaction is committed or highly probable, mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The amounts deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions only when the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Translation exposure The Group manages the foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations, particularly in the USA and Europe, by maintaining a percentage of net debt in US dollars and euro to mitigate the effect of these risks.
This is achieved by borrowing principally in US dollars and euro, which provide a partial match for the Groups major foreign currency assets.
The Group also manages its foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations through the use of currency swap contracts.
The amount deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is offset against the foreign currency translation effect of the net investment in overseas operations, and is released to the income statement upon disposal of those investments.
A weakening of the US dollar and euro against sterling would result in exchange gains on net debt denominated in these currencies which would be offset against the losses on the underlying foreign currency assets.
At the year end, net debt amounting to 464 million 2010 814 million was held in the following currencies: net borrowings of US dollars 98% 2010 76%, euro 35% 2010 20%, net deposits of pounds sterling 28% 2010 net borrowings of 7% and other currencies 5% 2010 3%.
The Groups interest cost through the income statement is impacted by changes in the relevant exchange rates.
The following table illustrates only the Groups sensitivity to the fluctuation of the major currencies on its financial assets and liabilities, as defined and set out in Note 19: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Sterling US dollar 5% change 1 23 28 Sterling euro 5% change 11 15 Interest rate management The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally from changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest rates.
This risk is managed by fixing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt, which aims to optimise net finance expense and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups policy is that between 30% and 75% of Group net debt excluding the Groups share of joint-venture net debt is fixed or capped excluding out-of-the-money caps for more than one year and that no interest rates are fixed for more than 12 years.
At 31 March 2011, the longest term of any fixed rate debt held by the Group was until November 2019 2010November 2019.
The proportion of net debt at 31 March 2011 excluding the Groups share of joint-venture net debt that was fixed or capped for more than one year was 85% 2010 82%.
A derogation of the maximum percentage of fixed rate debt was approved by the Tate&Lyle PLC Board until 30 June 2011.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
The impact is calculated with reference to the gross debt and cash held as at 31 March 2011 assuming that other variables remain unchanged.
If interest rates increase by 100 basis points, Group profit before tax will increase by approximately 2 million 2010 1 million.
If interest rates decrease by 100 basis points, or less where applicable, Group profit before tax will decrease by approximately 1 million 2010 1 million.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 89 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 21 Financial risk factors continued Price risk management Tate & Lyle participates mainly in four markets: food and beverage: industrial ingredients: pharmaceutical and personal care: and animal feed.
Food and beverage and industrial ingredients are the most significant.
All ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn maize.
Tate & Lyle is exposed to movements in the future prices of commodities in those domestic and international markets where the Group buys and sells corn and energy for production.
Commodity futures, forwards and options are used where available to hedge inventories and the costs of raw materials for unpriced and prospective contracts not covered by forward product sales.
In most cases, these hedging contracts mature within one year and are either traded on recognised exchanges or over the counter.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups commodity pricing contracts as of 31 March to the price movement of commodities.
31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Corn 30% change 2 2 The majority of the Groups commodity pricing contracts are held for trading and changes in mark-to-market values of these contracts are taken directly into the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity from commodity pricing contracts designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions when they occur.
Credit risk management Counterparty credit risk arises from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures inherent within the Groups outstanding receivables.
The Group manages credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the long-term credit ratings of Standard & Poors and Moodys typically single A long-term credit ratings or higher.
Trading limits assigned to commercial customers are based on ratings from Dun & Bradstreet and Credit Risk Monitor.
In cases where published financial ratings are not available or inconclusive, credit application, reference checking, and obtaining of customers confidential financial information such as liquidity and turnover ratio, are required to evaluate customers credit worthiness.
Counterparties positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and there are no significant concentrations of credit risks.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 m m Cash and cash equivalents 654 504 Trade and other receivables 274 398 Derivative financial instruments assets 183 199 Available-for-sale financial assets 19 14 The Groups trade receivables are short term in nature and largely comprise amounts receivable from business customers.
There are no amounts included in trade receivables in respect of securitised receivables 2010 nil.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups having a number of key quality customers and a customer base which is large, unrelated and internationally dispersed.
Liquidity risk management The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business needs, by maintaining access to a wide range of funding sources, including capital markets and bank borrowings.
Capital market issues outstanding at 31March 2011 include the US$300 million 6.125% 144A bond maturing in June 2011, the 100 million 6.50% bond maturing in June 2012, the US$500million 5.00% 144A bond maturing in November 2014, the US$250 million 6.625% 144A bond maturing in June 2016, and the 200 million 6.75% bond maturing in November 2019.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities to provide liquidity back-up to cover its funding requirements for the foreseeable future.
The Group has a core committed bank facility of US$1 billion which matures in October 2012.
This facility is unsecured and contains common financial covenants for Tate & Lyle and its subsidiary companies that the pre-exceptional and amortisation interest cover ratio should not be less than 2.5 times and the multiple of net debt to EBITDA, as defined in our financial covenants, should not be greater than 4.0 times.
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations and it is Group policy to manage the consolidated statement of financial position so as to operate well within these covenanted restrictions.
In both the current and comparative reporting period, the Group complied with its financial covenants at all measurement points.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are raised through the Group treasury company, Tate&Lyle International Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the business units on an arms length basis.
90 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 21 Financial risk factors continued Current Group policy is to ensure that, after subtracting the total of undrawn committed facilities, no more than 10% of gross debt matures within 12 months and no more than 35% has a maturity within two and a half years.
At 31 March 2011, after subtracting total undrawn committed facilities, there was no debt maturing within two and a half years 2010 none.
The average maturity of the Groups gross debt was 4.8 years 20105.4 years.
At the year end the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 654 million 2010 504 million and had committed facilities of 623million 2010659 million of which 623 million 2010 515 million was undrawn.
These resources are maintained to provide liquidity back-up and to meet the projected maximum cash outflow from debt repayment, capital expenditure and seasonal working capital needs foreseen for at least a year into the future at any one time.
The table below analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
31 March 2011 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 229 436 418 Interest on borrowings 52 151 68 Trade and other payables 406 1 Derivative contracts: receipts 361 970 payments 346 990 Commodity contracts 5 31 March 2010 1 year 1-5 years 5 years m m m Borrowings including finance leases 191 653 435 Interest on borrowings 61 185 96 Trade and other payables 474 1 Derivative contracts: receipts 407 778 payments 394 802 Commodity contracts 123 3 Included in borrowings are 2,394,000 of 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Only one years worth of interest payable on these cumulative preference shares is included in the less than one year category above.
Interest on borrowings is calculated based on borrowings held at year end without taking into account future issues.
Floating-rate interest is calculated using forward interest rates derived from interest rate yield curves as at year end.
Derivative contracts include currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
All commodity pricing contracts such as options and futures are shown separately under commodity contracts.
Commodity contracts include only net settled commodity derivative contracts and gross settled commodity purchase contracts with negative fair values.
Purchase contracts outflows represent actual contractual cash flows under the purchase contracts and not their fair values.
Cash outflows from the purchase contracts are offset by cash inflows received from sale contracts: however, these inflows are not included as part of this analysis.
Financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are converted to pounds sterling using year end exchange rates.
Capital risk management The Groups primary objectives in managing its capital are to safeguard the business as a going concern: to maintain sufficient financial flexibility to undertake its investment plans: to retain as a minimum an investment grade credit rating which enables consistent access to debt capital markets: and to optimise capital structure in order to reduce the cost of capital.
The Groups financial profile and level of financial risk is assessed on a regular basis in the light of changes to the economic conditions, business environment, the Groups business profile and the risk characteristics of its businesses.
Tate & Lyle has contractual relationships with Moodys and Standard and Poors S&P for the provision of credit ratings, and it is the Groups policy to keep them informed of all major developments.
At 31 March 2011, the long-term credit rating from Moodys was Baa3 stable outlook and from S&P was BBB stable outlook.
The Group is committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings.
The Group regards its total capital as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 Notes m m Net debt 464 814 34 Total shareholders equity 973 854 Total capital 1 437 1 668 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 91 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 21 Financial risk factors continued The Board of Tate & Lyle PLC has set two ongoing key performance indicators KPIs to measure the Groups financial strength.
The target levels for these financial KPIs are that the ratio of net debt EBITDA should not exceed 2.0 times and interest cover should exceed 5 times.
These ratios are calculated on the same basis as the external financial covenants noted above.
The ratios for these KPIs for the financial years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 are: 31 March 2011 2010 Net debt EBITDA 1.1 1.8 Interest cover 6.9 5.8 22 Inventories 31 March 2011 2010 m m Raw materials and consumables 288 202 Work in progress 16 19 Finished goods 150 188 Total 454 409 Finished goods inventories of 4 million 2010 2 million are carried at realisable value, this being lower than cost.
Inventories of 197 million 2010 60 million are carried at market value.
In 2010, the Group recognised an impairment charge of 4 million against finished goods inventories at its sugar refining business in Israel, which was included in exceptional items.
The sugar refining business in Israel has been classed as an asset held for sale at 31 March 2011 and is reported in discontinued operations.
23 Trade and other receivables 31 March 2011 2010 m m Non-current trade and other receivables Other receivables 1 2 Total 1 2 31 March 2011 2010 m m Current trade and other receivables Trade receivables 263 329 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 19 24 Trade receivables net 244 305 Prepayments and accrued income 18 28 Margin deposits 5 45 Government grants receivable 3 Other receivables 24 43 Total 291 424 The fair values of the non-current trade and other receivables are not materially different from their carrying values.
The fair values of the current trade and other receivables are equivalent to their carrying values due to being short-term in nature.
There is limited credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a number of key quality customers and a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
The carrying value of trade and other receivables represents the maximum credit exposure.
Government grants receivable relate to the Transitional Aid and Restructuring Aid provisions of the EU Sugar Regime.
These amounts were receivable subject to audit by the governments of the jurisdictions to which they relate.
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 2011 2010 m m US dollar 142 231 Euro note a 75 98 Sterling 19 31 Other 56 66 Total 292 426 a Includes nil of government grants receivable under the Transitional Aid and Restructuring Aid provisions of the EU Sugar Regime 2010 3 million.
92 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 23 Trade and other receivables continued Provision for impairment of receivables 31 March 2011 2010 m m At 1 April 24 21 Charge for the year 1 3 Reversal of impairment 1 Disposal of businesses 5 Exchange 1 1 At 31 March 19 24 The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in the income statement.
The Group recognised a loss of 1 million 2010 3 million for impairment of its trade receivables during the year.
The loss is solely from continuing operations and has been included in operating profit in the income statement Note 6.
As at 31 March 2011, trade receivables of 37 million 2010 63 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 m m Up to 30 days past due 26 42 13 months past due 1 4 Over 3 months past due 10 17 Total 37 63 24 Share capital and share premium Ordinary Share share capital premium Total m m m At 1 April 2009 115 404 519 Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 1 1 Issue of shares for scrip dividends 2 2 Capitalised on scrip dividends 2 2 At 31 March 2010 115 405 520 Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 1 1 Issue of shares for scrip dividends 2 33 35 Capitalised on scrip dividends 33 33 At 31 March 2011 117 406 523 Ordinary shares carry the right to participate in dividends and each share entitles the holder to one vote on matters requiring shareholder approval.
Allotted, called up and fully paid equity share capital Year to 31 March 2011 Year to 31 March 2010 Shares m Shares m At 1 April 460 575 700 115 460 012 801 115 Allotted under share option schemes 217 743 48 287 Scrip dividend shares issued 7 317 897 2 514 612 At 31 March 468 111 340 117 460 575 700 115 Treasury shares and shares held in ESOP trust As at 31 March 2011, the Group held 175,328 shares 2010 512,490 shares in Treasury.
During the year 337,162 shares 2010 816,012 shares were released from Treasury to satisfy share options exercised.
The shares held in Treasury at 31 March 2011 represented less than 0.1% 2010 0.1% of the Parent companys share capital at the year end, and have a nominal value of less than 0.1 million 2010 0.1 million.
As at 31 March 2011, the Group held 2,713,694 shares 2010 3,141,100 shares in an ESOP trust at a nominal value of 25p and a market value of 577.5p 2010 454.2p.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, shareholders were given the option to receive the final dividend relating to the prior year and the interim dividend relating to the current year in the form of a scrip issue.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 93 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24 Share capital and share premium continued Analysis of ordinary shareholders 31 March 2011 Number of holdings % Total % Up to 500 shares of 25p each 5 133 30.0 1 362 081 0.3 501 1 000 4 340 25.3 3 408 994 0.8 1 001 1 500 2 262 13.2 2 818 630 0.6 1 501 2 000 1 555 9.1 2 814 748 0.6 2 001 5 000 2 449 14.3 7 603 898 1.6 5 001 10 000 560 3.3 3 943 911 0.8 10 001 200 000 586 3.4 29 665 839 6.3 200 001 500 000 102 0.6 33 304 495 7.1 Above 500 000 130 0.8 383 188 744 81.9 Total 17 117 100.0 468 111 340 100.0 25 Other reserves Other Hedging Translation reserves reserve reserve note a Total m m m m At 31 March 2009 23 123 119 219 Cash flow hedges: fair value gains in the year 13 13 reclassified and reported in the income statement during the year 11 11 tax effect of the above movements 4 4 Loss on revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 10 10 Currency translation differences: net investment hedging gains in the year 58 58 Net exchange differences on consolidation 67 67 At 31 March 2010 3 114 109 220 Cash flow hedges: fair value gains in the year 9 9 reclassified and reported in the income statement during the year 9 9 tax effect of the above movements 5 5 Gain on revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 1 1 Currency translation differences: net investment hedging gains in the year 29 29 Net exchange differences on consolidation 65 65 Items transferred to the income statement on disposal 3 20 23 At 31 March 2011 7 58 110 175 a Other reserves include the merger reserve, the available-for-sale fair value reserve, and the statutory reserves of certain overseas subsidiaries, all of which are non-distributable.
94 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 26 Share-based payments During the year to 31 March 2011, various equity-settled share-based payment arrangements existed, as set out below.
The grants made during the year and the prior year were as follows: Sharesave scheme Executive Deferred Performance share option bonus Duration Type of arrangementshare plan scheme share plan in years Bi-annually Annually Annually Annually Annually in Timing of grant in June in July in June December note a Number of options shares granted in year to 31 March 2011 3 305 524 3 14 218 5 7 482 Number of options shares granted in year to 31 March 2010 5 001 896 3 85 632 5 45 453 Fair value per share for 2011 grant pence 381 3 84 5 94 Fair value per share for 2010 grant pence 234 3 90 5 97 Valuation basis Monte Carlo Binomial Lattice Monte Carlo Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Contractual life 10 years 10 years 3 years 3 5 years 3 5 years Vesting conditions note b note c note d note e note e a The last grant under this scheme was made in June 2004. b For the year ended 31 March 2011, exercise of 3,305,524 shares is dependent 50% on adjusted diluted earnings per share and 50% on return on capital employed.
For the year ended 31 March 2010, exercise of 419,403 shares was not subject to any performance conditions, exercise of 269,616 shares was dependent on total shareholder return and the exercise of 4,312,877 shares was dependent 50% on total shareholder return and 50% on adjusted diluted earnings per share.
c Exercise is dependent on earnings per share performance relative to inflation over a three-year period following grant.
Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to the exercise of options.
d Executives have previously had the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their annual cash bonus after deduction of tax, national insurance or other social security payments and invest the amount deferred in the Companys shares.
Subject to the satisfaction of employment conditions and a performance target over the performance period as described in b above, participants received awards of matching shares based on the number of shares which could have been acquired from the gross bonus amount deferred by the participant.
During the performance period, dividends were paid on the deferred shares but not on matching shares.
This plan was suspended during the year ended 31 March 2009. e Options granted in the years to 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2011 were by invitation at a 10% discount to the market price.
Options are exercisable at the end of a three-year or five-year savings contract.
The Group recognised total expenses before tax of 9 million 2010 5 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year.
Details of the movements for equity-settled share option schemes during the year to 31 March were as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Shares price Shares price number pence number pence Outstanding at 1 April 11 154 941 72 9 780 720 111 Granted 3 327 224 3 5 132 981 11 Exercised 982 311 331 1 064 000 174 Lapsed 2 240 878 54 2 694 760 55 Outstanding at 31 March 11 258 976 33 11 154 941 72 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 95 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 Share-based payments continued The weighted average Tate & Lyle PLC share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 514 pence 2010 377pence.
At 31 March 2011, 1,008,988 2010 1,728,068 of the outstanding options were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of 332 pence 2010 330 pence.
A detailed breakdown of the range of exercise prices for options outstanding at 31 March is shown in the table below: Year to 31 March 2011 Year to 31 March 2010 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Number remaining exercise Number remaining exercise outstanding contractual price outstanding contractual price at end of year life in months pence at end of year life in months pence At nil cost 10 183 236 51.1 8 864 912 55.5 0.01 to 1.99 2.00 to 3.99 1 002 184 31.4 338 2 044 399 40.9 341 4.00 to 7.99 73 556 38.1 449 245 630 36.5 443 Total 11 258 976 49.2 33 11 154 941 52.4 72 The fair value of grants is measured using the valuation technique that is considered to be the most appropriate to value each class of grant.
These include Binomial Lattice models, Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
These valuations take into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Key assumptions are detailed below: Sharesave Performance scheme At 31 March 2011 share plan December Expected volatility n a 35% Expected life n a 3.3 5.3 years Risk-free rate 2.1% 3.0% Expected dividend yield 5.2% 5.5% Forfeiture rate 0% 10% Correlation with comparators n a n a Volatility of comparators n a n a Expectations of meeting performance criteria 100% n a Weighted average market price at date of grant pence 443 538 Sharesave Performance scheme At 31 March 2010 share plan December Expected volatility 40% 35% Expected life n a 3.3 5.3 years Risk-free rate 3% 3.4% Expected dividend yield 5.15%-7.8% 5.7% Forfeiture rate 0% 10% Correlation with comparators 35% n a Volatility of comparators 26%-144% n a Expectations of meeting performance criteria 100% n a Weighted average market price at date of grant pence 346 418 The expected volatility is based on the Companys historical volatility over the three-year period prior to each award date.
27 Trade and other payables 31 March 2011 2010 m m Non-current payables Accruals and deferred income 1 Other payables 1 Total 1 1 31 March 2011 2010 m m Current payables Trade payables 245 302 Social security 7 12 Deferred consideration note a 7 7 Accruals and deferred income note b 76 126 Margin payables 6 Other payables 65 38 Total 406 485 a Deferred consideration relates to the acquisition of G. C. Hahn & Co.
Note 37. b Includes gover nment grant deferred income of nil 2010 9 million under the Transitional Aid provisions of the EU Sugar Regime.
96 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 28 Borrowings Non-current borrowings 31 March 2011 2010 m m Unsecured borrowings 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2010 2,394,000 note a 2 2 Industrial Revenue Bonds 2016-2036 US$92,000,000 57 61 6.125% Guaranteed Notes 2011 US$300,000,000 200 6.5% Guaranteed Notes 2012 100,000,000 note b 104 106 5.0% Guaranteed Notes 2014 US$500,000,000 328 346 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 170 176 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 201 200 862 1 091 Bank loans Variable unsecured loans US$ 7 6 7 6 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 18 22 18 22 Total non-current borrowings 887 1 119 a On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of 6.5% cumulative preference shares shall be entitled to 1 per share, in preference to all other classes of shareholders.
Holders of these shares are entitled to vote at meetings, except on the following matters: any question as to the disposal of the surplus profits after the dividend on these shares has been provided for: the election of directors: their remuneration: any agreement between the directors and the Company: or the alteration of the Articles of Association dealing with any such matters.
b During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group redeemed 100 million of the 6.5% Guaranteed Notes maturing in June 2012.
Current borrowings 31 March 2011 2010 m m 6.125% Guaranteed Note 2011 US$ 300,000,000 187 Unsecured bank overdrafts 10 23 Drawdown of committed facilities 139 Short-term unsecured loans 25 25 Obligations under finance leases 5 3 Total current borrowings 227 190 Secured borrowings Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings compared with their book values are as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Non-current unsecured borrowings 862 900 1 091 1 100 Non-current bank loans 7 7 6 6 Other non-current borrowings 18 18 22 22 Other current borrowings 227 229 190 190 Total 1 114 1 154 1 309 1 318 The fair value of borrowings has been determined using either quoted market prices, broker dealer quotations or discounted cash flow analysis.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 97 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 28 Borrowings continued Interest rate risks and maturity of borrowings The maturity profile of the Groups non-current borrowings is as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 m m One to two years 115 203 Two to five years 338 470 After five years 434 446 Total non-current borrowings 887 1 119 Floating rate borrowings bear interest based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents.
If the interest rates applicable to the Groups floating rate debt and cash held as at 31 March 2011 rise by an average of 1% over the year to 31 March 2012, this would increase Group profit before tax by approximately 2 million 2010 1 million.
Taking into account the Groups interest rate and cross currency swap contracts, the effective interest rates of its borrowings are as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 6.5% 6.5% Industrial Revenue Bonds 20162036 US$92,000,000 0.3% 0.3% 6.125% Guaranteed Notes 2011 US$300,000,000 5.1% 5.0% 6.5% Guaranteed Notes 2012 100,000,000 3.7% 7.2% 5.0% Guaranteed Notes 2014 US$500,000,000 3.1% 4.9% 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 5.9% 5.9% 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 4.7% 4.8% Short-term loans and overdrafts Current short-term loans mature within the next 12 months and overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Both short-term loans and bank overdrafts are arranged at floating rates of interest and expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Credit facilities and arrangements The Group has an undrawn committed multi-currency facility of 623 million 2010 515 million, which matures in October 2012.
This facility incurs commitment fees at market rates prevailing when the facility was arranged.
The facility may only be withdrawn in the event of specified events of default.
In addition, the Group has substantial uncommitted facilities.
Finance lease commitments Amounts payable under finance lease commitments are as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Present value of Present value of Minimum lease minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments m m m m Within one year 7 5 5 3 Between one and five years 18 16 20 17 After five years 3 2 7 5 28 23 32 25 Less future finance charges 5 7 Present value of minimum lease payments 23 25 Finance lease agreements allow for renewal at the end of the original ten-year lease term at the option of the Group.
29 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences using tax rates applicable in the jurisdictions where such differences arise.
Movements in deferred income tax net liabilities assets in the year are as follows: Deferred tax m At 1 April 2009 48 Credited to the income statement 108 Credited to the statement of comprehensive income 25 Credited directly to equity 1 Exchange 2 At 31 March 2010 84 Charge to the income statement 38 Charge to the statement of comprehensive income Credited directly to equity 1 Exchange 3 At 31 March 2011 44 98 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 29 Deferred tax continued Of the amounts of deferred tax charged to the income statement and other comprehensive income, a credit of 1.8 million 2010 0.3 million arises from changes in tax rates.
There was no impact from the imposition of new taxes.
Deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised tax losses of 451 million 2010 371 million have not been recognised to the extent that they exceed taxable profits against which these assets may be recovered.
No unrelieved tax losses expired under current tax legislation in the year ended 31 March 2011.
Deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses of 39 million have been recognised in the current year in relation to the disposal of Fort Dodge.
In addition tax losses of 25 million have been recognised in the current year to offset the deferred tax liability arising from the UK pensions surplus.
The total deferred tax on unremitted earnings is 5.5 million 2010 3.3 million of which 0.6 million 2010 0.6 million has been recognised.
The Group has not recognised the remaining amount as it is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences arising from unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately 4.9 million 2010 2.7 million.
Other deferred tax liabilities principally relate to deferred tax on acquired intangible assets.
Other deferred tax assets principally relate to deferred tax on provisions.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances in excess of depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m At 1 April 2009 102 54 156 Transfers between categories 2 2 Credited to the income statement 94 25 119 Exchange 1 4 5 At 31 March 2010 7 23 30 Transfers between categories 3 3 Charged to the income statement 84 7 91 Charged to the statement of comprehensive income 2 2 Exchange 6 6 At 31 March 2011 85 29 114 Retirement benefit Share-based Tax obligations payments losses Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m At 1 April 2009 81 2 25 108 Transfers between categories 2 2 Charged credited to the income statement 10 1 4 4 11 Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 29 4 25 Credited to equity 1 1 Exchange 6 1 7 At 31 March 2010 94 2 4 14 114 Transfers between categories 3 3 Charged credited to the income statement 1 42 12 53 Charged credited to the statement of comprehensive income 19 22 1 2 Credited to equity 1 1 Exchange 5 4 9 At 31 March 2011 69 3 64 22 158 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
As a result of these offsets, the deferred tax balances are presented in the statement of financial position as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax liabilities 30 59 Deferred tax assets 74 143 Total 44 84 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 99 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30 Retirement benefit obligations a Plan information The Group maintains pension plans for its operations throughout the world.
Some of these arrangements are defined benefit pension schemes with retirement, disability, death and termination income benefits.
The retirement income benefits are generally a function of years of employment and final salary.
The principal schemes are funded and their assets held in separate trustee-administered funds.
The schemes are funded in line with local practice and contributions are assessed in accordance with local independent actuarial advice.
The schemes operated by the Group are subject to independent actuarial valuation at regular intervals using consistent assumptions appropriate to conditions prevailing in the relevant country.
In the United Kingdom, the most recent actuarial valuations of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligations were carried out as at 31 March 2010 by independent actuaries, and the results of these valuations are being finalised.
The Group also maintains defined contribution pension schemes and some fully insured pension schemes.
On 1 April 2002, the main United Kingdom scheme was closed to new members.
A defined contribution pension scheme has been established to provide pension benefits to new United Kingdom employees.
Under the projected unit method, the service cost of the closed scheme will increase as the members approach retirement.
In the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group decided to close the main United Kingdom pension scheme to future accrual from 6 April 2011.
At the same time, the decision that the Group would no longer fund early retirements was communicated to members.
These changes gave rise to exceptional items in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2010 Note 7.
The Groups subsidiaries in the USA provide unfunded retirement medical and life assurance benefits to their employees.
During the year, the Group announced its intention to close its main US pension schemes, which closed to future accrual from 1 January 2011.
The Group expects to contribute approximately 40 million to its defined benefit plans in the year to 31 March 2012, subject to the finalisation of the 2010 actuarial valuations of the UK schemes.
b Principal assumptions The principal assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuations were as follows: Pension benefits Medical Year to 31 March 2011 UK US Others benefits Inflation rate 2.6 3.6% 2.5% 2.0% 2.5% Expected rate of salary increases 4.4% 3.5% 2.0% n a Expected rate of pension increases 3.4% n a 1.3% n a Discount rate 5.5% 5.4% 5.2% 5.3% Expected return on plan assets total 6.2% 7.2% 5.3% n a Expected equity return on plan assets 8.4% 8.0% 6.5% n a Pension benefits Medical Year to 31 March 2010 UK US Others benefits Inflation rate 3.7% 2.5% 2.0% 2.5% Expected rate of salary increases 4.5% 3.5% 2.0% n a Expected rate of pension increases 3.5% n a 1.3% n a Discount rate 5.5% 5.7% 4.8% 5.6% Expected return on plan assets total 5.9% 7.5% 6.3% n a Expected equity return on plan assets 8.1% 8.4% 7.5% n a During the year the UK government announced that the Consumer Price Index CPI rather than the Retail Price Index RPI should be used as the basis of the calculation of inflation for the statutory index linked features of retirement benefits.
Accordingly, the obligations of the UK schemes have been calculated with reference to the CPI where permitted by the scheme rules.
For the year ended 31 March 2011, the inflation rate applied for CPI and RPI are 2.6% and 3.6% respectively.
Expected longevity post age 65 UK US Mortality assumptions Year to 31 March 2011 Male aged 65 now 21 years 19 years Male aged 65 in 20 years time 24 years 19 years Female aged 65 now 22 years 21 years Female aged 65 in 20 years time 24 years 21 years Expected longevity post age 65 UK US Mortality assumptions Year to 31 March 2010 Male aged 65 now 21 years 19 years Male aged 65 in 20 years time 24 years 19 years Female aged 65 now 22 years 21 years Female aged 65 in 20 years time 24 years 21 years Shorter longevity assumptions are used for members who retire on grounds of ill-health.
The expected rates of return on individual categories of plan assets are estimated by reference to indices published by the relevant exchanges.
The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plans investment portfolio.
The actual rate of return on the plan assets for the year was positive 9.3% 2010 positive 26.5%, and amounted to a gain of 109 million 2010 258 million gain.
100 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Medical cost trend rates are estimated at 9.5% per annum 2010 10%, grading down to 5% by 2020.
If medical cost trend rates were to increase or decrease by 1%, the effects are estimated as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m Increase decrease in medical benefits current service and interest cost 1 1 1 1 Increase decrease in medical benefits obligation 9 7 8 7 c Amounts recognised in the income statement Pension benefits Medical UK US Others Total benefits Total Year to 31 March 2011 m m m m m m Current service cost charged to operating profit 2 5 1 8 3 11 Past service cost 1 1 1 Curtailment benefit 1 1 1 Total charged to operating profit 1 6 1 8 3 11 Interest cost 47 22 2 71 5 76 Expected return on plan assets 52 18 2 72 72 Credited charged to finance expense 5 4 1 5 4 Total 4 10 1 7 8 15 Pension benefits Medical UK US Others Total benefits Total Year to 31 March 2010 m m m m m m Current service cost charged to operating profit 3 5 1 9 2 11 Exceptional items Note 7 : negative past service cost 32 32 32 curtailment benefit 10 10 10 Total credited charged to operating profit 39 5 1 33 2 31 Interest cost 46 22 2 70 6 76 Expected return on plan assets 42 13 2 57 57 Charged to finance expense 4 9 13 6 19 Total 35 14 1 20 8 12 Current service costs are presented in staff costs Note 9 : expected return on plan assets and interest cost are presented in net finance expense Note 10. d Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position Pension benefits UK US Others Total % of % of % of % of Medical plan plan plan plan benefits Total At 31 March 2011 assets m assets m assets m assets m m m Fair value of plan assets: equities 38% 349 53% 145 35% 18 41% 512 512 bonds 47% 430 30% 81 44% 23 43% 534 534 property and other 15% 140 17% 48 21% 11 16% 199 199 919 274 52 1 245 1 245 Present value of funded obligations 823 366 55 1 244 1 244 Present value of unfunded obligations 42 42 97 139 Unrecognised asset due to surplus restriction 1 1 1 Net asset liability recognised in the statement of financial position 96 134 4 42 97 139 Disclosed in the statement of financial position as: retirement benefit surplus 102 1 103 103 retirement benefit deficits 6 134 5 145 97 242 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 101 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Pension benefits UK US Others Total % of % of % of % of Medical plan plan plan plan benefits Total At 31 March 2010 assets m assets m assets m assets m m m Fair value of plan assets: equities 29% 249 54% 131 32% 16 34% 396 396 bonds 34% 301 29% 72 44% 22 34% 395 395 property and other 37% 327 17% 42 24% 12 32% 381 381 877 245 50 1 172 1 172 Present value of funded obligations 872 357 57 1 286 1 286 Present value of unfunded obligations 42 42 101 143 Net asset liability recognised in the statement of financial position 5 154 7 156 101 257 Disclosed in the statement of financial position as: retirement benefit surplus 15 1 16 16 retirement benefit obligations 10 154 8 172 101 273 The plan assets do not include any of the Groups financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
e Reconciliation of movement in plan assets and liabilities Pension benefits Medical UK US Others Total benefits Total Liabilities m m m m m m At 1 April 2009 687 355 50 1 092 94 1 186 Total service cost 3 5 1 9 2 11 Negative past service cost 32 32 32 Curtailment benefits 10 10 10 Interest cost 46 22 2 70 6 76 Actuarial loss 229 55 8 292 13 305 Benefits paid 51 22 2 75 5 80 Exchange 16 2 18 9 27 At 31 March 2010 872 399 57 1 328 101 1 429 Total service cost 2 5 1 8 3 11 Past service cost 1 1 1 Curtailment benefits 1 1 1 Interest cost 47 22 2 71 5 76 Actuarial gain loss 48 27 21 1 22 Benefits paid 49 23 2 74 5 79 Businesses sold 2 2 2 Exchange 23 1 24 6 30 At 31 March 2011 823 408 55 1 286 97 1 383 Pension benefits Medical UK US Others Total benefits Total Assets m m m m m m At 1 April 2009 732 198 45 975 975 Expected return on assets 42 13 2 57 57 Actuarial gain 141 55 5 201 201 Contributions paid by employer 13 12 2 27 5 32 Benefits paid 51 22 2 75 5 80 Exchange 11 2 13 13 At 31 March 2010 877 245 50 1 172 1 172 Expected return on assets 52 18 2 72 72 Actuarial gain 21 16 37 37 Contributions paid by employer 18 32 2 52 5 57 Benefits paid 49 23 2 74 5 79 Exchange 14 14 14 Unrecognised asset due to surplus restriction 1 1 1 At 31 March 2011 919 274 51 1 244 1 244 102 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued f Analysis of actuarial gains losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 31 March 2011 2010 m m Difference between the actual return and the expected return on plan assets 37 201 Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities 12 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 10 305 Unrecognised asset due to surplus restriction 1 Actuarial gains losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 58 104 Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the consolidated statement of compr ehensive income 101 159 Deferred tax taken directly to equity on retirement benefit obligations was 19 million charge to equity 2010 29 million credit to equity.
g History of the plans and experience adjustments 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation and medical benefits 1 383 1 429 1 186 1 203 1 317 Fair value of plan assets 1 244 1 172 975 1 112 1 188 Net deficit 139 257 211 91 129 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities gain loss 12 18 9 25 Experience adjustments on plan assets gain loss 37 201 247 69 3 All experience adjustments are recognised directly in equity, net of related tax see the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
31 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Restructuring Insurance and closure Other funds provisions provisons Total m m m m At 1 April 2009 12 7 13 32 Charged to the income statement 3 56 59 Utilised in the year 2 21 1 24 Exchange and other movements 1 3 4 At 31 March 2010 12 42 9 63 Charged to the income statement 5 28 16 49 Credited to the income statement 2 20 1 23 Utilised in the year 2 13 7 22 Exchange and other movements 2 2 At 31 March 2011 13 35 17 65 31 March 2011 2010 m m Provisions are expected to be utilised as follows: within one year 44 26 after more than one year 21 37 Total 65 63 Insurance funds represent amounts provided by the Groups captive insurance subsidiary in respect of the expected level of insurance claims.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within five years.
The restructuring and closure provisions charged during the year primarily relate to the implementation of a common global IS IT platform and additional closure and other restructuring costs relating to the Food Systems business, within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
The amount utilised during the year primarily relates to the decision to mothball the sucralose manufacturing facility in McIntosh, Alabama.
In addition, during the year the Group charged to the income statement an exceptional provision of 25 million in respect of onerous contracts relating to the future obligations of the plant at Fort Dodge, Iowa.
As a result of the disposal in March 2011, 20 million of the resultant provision was no longer required and was reversed.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within two years.
Other provisions primarily relate to Group legal matters and costs associated with the disposal of the Sugars segment.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within 5 years.
The charge to the income statement in relation to the unwinding of discounts was 2 million 2010 nil.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 103 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 32 Change in working capital 31 March 2011 2010 m m Increase decrease in inventories 121 99 Decrease in receivables 1 78 Increase in payables 88 39 Increase decrease in derivative financial instruments excluding debt-related derivatives 7 10 Decrease in provisions for other liabilities and charges 16 19 Decrease in retirement benefit obligations 46 21 Increase decrease in working capital continuing operations 101 186 Excluded from the movement in retirement benefit obligations is an actuarial gain of 58 million 2010 actuarial loss 104 million.
33 Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 153 142 Short-term bank deposits 501 362 Total 654 504 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 0.4% 2010 0.4%, with an average maturity of 12 days 2010 6 days.
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 2011 2010 m m Euro 55 136 US dollar 415 322 Sterling 132 2 Other 52 44 Total 654 504 34 Net debt The components of the Groups net debt are as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 Notes m m Non-current borrowings 28 887 1 119 Current borrowings and overdrafts 28 227 190 Debt-related derivative instruments 20 4 9 Cash and cash equivalents 33 654 504 Net debt 464 814 Derivative financial instruments presented within assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position of 1 million net asset comprise net debt-related instruments of 4 million liability and net non-debt-related instruments of 5 million asset 2010 7 million net asset comprising net debt-related instruments of 9 million liability and net non-debt-related instruments of 16 million asset.
104 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 34 Net debt continued Net debt is denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 2011 2010 m m Euro 162 161 US dollar 458 620 Sterling 131 60 Other 25 27 Total 464 814 Movements in the Groups net debt are as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 April 814 1 231 Increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 168 80 Cash outflow from net decrease in borrowings 147 267 Debt transferred on disposal of businesses 8 Trade finance recognised as debt 16 Fair value and other movements 7 Exchange 27 79 Decrease in net debt in the year 350 417 At 31 March 464 814 Included in the cash outflow from net decrease in borrowings is an amount of 16 million 2010 45 million that is included in net cash used in financing activities from discontinued operations.
35 Contingent liabilities 31 March 2011 2010 m m Trade guarantees 1 13 As at 31 March 2010, trade guarantees included 13 million in relation to discontinued operations.
In addition to the above, in 2010 we had guaranteed the obligations of certain subsidiaries and joint ventures to Payment Agencies in connection with Restructuring Aid.
The Groups share of these guarantees were 6 million.
Other trade guarantees have been given in the normal course of business by the Group at both 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010.
These are excluded from the figures given above and are in respect of Revenue and Customs and the Rural Payments Agency for Agricultural Produce bonds, ECGD recourse agreements, letters of credit and tender and performance bonds.
The Group is subject to claims and litigation generally arising in the ordinary course of its business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
All such actions are strenuously defended but provision is made for liabilities that are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice and after taking into account the Groups insurance arrangements.
While there is always uncertainty as to the outcome of any claim or litigation, it is not expected that claims and litigation existing at the balance sheet date will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
Sale of EU Sugars The sale of EU Sugars to American Sugar Refining, Inc. completed on 30 September 2010.
The consideration after working capital adjustments was 227 million, subject to closing adjustments arising from the agreement of post completion statements.
The process to reach such agreement is ongoing and items totalling 54 million remain outstanding and are expected to be submitted for adjudication to an independent expert.
These items relate to the impact of major turbulence in the supply of raw sugar to the EU during the period prior to closing which resulted in an increase in certain rolling re-export commitments of the business arising under the EU Sugar Regime.
The Group believes that its position is fully supported and as such will be robustly defended.
No provision in respect of outstanding items has been recorded.
36 Commitments Capital commitments 31 March 2011 2010 m m Commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 24 8 Operating lease arrangements Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its land, buildings, plant and equipment.
Certain operating lease agreements allow for renewal at the end of the original term at the option of the Group.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 105 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 36 Commitments continued At the balance sheet date the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 m m Within one year 24 31 Later than one year and no later than five years 68 84 After five years 81 80 Total 173 195 37 Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Group acquired 80% of the issued share capital of G. C. Hahn & Co. Hahn from Georg Hahn Familien GmbH the Hahn Family.
As the Group effectively bears all the risks and rewards for 100% of this business, no non-controlling interest is recognised in the Groups financial statements.
The acquisition agreement allowed for the Group to acquire the remaining 20% of the issued share capital of Hahn through put and call options.
During the year to 31 March 2010 a put option was exercised for 15% of the issued share capital for a total consideration of 21million which was paid by the Group on 31 March 2010.
At 31 March 2011 deferred consideration of 7 million relating to the remaining 5% of the issued share capital is recognised in trade and other payables Note 27.
Disposals EU Sugars and Molasses disposal During the year the Group completed the disposal of EU Sugars to American Sugar Refining, Inc.
The disposal comprised an asset sale of the Thames Sugar Refinery and its associated businesses in London and a share sale of Alcantara Empreendimentos SGPS, SA, Tate & Lyle Norge AS and Eridania Tate & Lyle SpA.
Total consideration of 227 million remains subject to finalisation of post completion statements Note 35.
During the year the Group also completed the disposal of Molasses to W&R Barnett Ltd. Total consideration was 66 million, subject to finalisation of post completion statements.
The Group incurred 4 million of costs associated with the disposal.
The calculation of the result on disposal is shown below: 31 March 2011 EU Sugars Molasses Total m m m Goodwill and intangible assets 1 2 3 Property, plant and equipment 203 14 217 Investment in associates 2 2 Available-for-sale financial assets 1 1 Derivative financial instruments assets 18 7 25 Inventories 72 35 107 Trade and other receivables 66 42 108 Trade and other payables 53 33 86 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 15 3 18 Retirement benefit obligation 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 5 5 10 Borrowings 5 3 8 Taxation 1 2 3 Total assets disposed 292 64 356 Non controlling interests disposed 5 5 Net assets disposed 292 59 351 Cash received during the year 225 65 290 Receivable at 31 March 2011 2 1 3 Total consideration 227 66 293 Other items: Disposal costs 4 4 8 Recycling of cash flow hedge reserve 3 3 Exchange differences transferred from equity 11 9 20 Loss gain on disposal 55 12 43 Cash flows: Cash consideration 225 65 290 Cash disposed 5 5 10 Cash inflow in the year 220 60 280 106 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 37 Acquisitions and disposals continued International Sugar Trading In the year to 31 March 2009, the Group disposed of its International Sugar Trading business to Bunge Limited Bunge for total consideration, net of disposal costs of 57 million.
Following agreement of completion adjustments, the Group repaid 26 million to Bunge during the year to 31March 2010.
38 Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale On 20 April 2011, the Group has entered into a conditional contract to dispose of Vietnam Sugar to TH Milk Food Joint Stock Company.
The Group is committed to the disposal of its other remaining businesses within the legacy Sugars division, principally Tate & Lyle Gadot Manufacturing and Tate & Lyle Israel Limited.
These businesses have been disclosed as discontinued operations Note 12 and the assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2011 are shown in the table below.
Assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2011 are shown as held for sale as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 m m Assets Intangible assets 2 Property, plant and equipment 22 Inventories 17 Trade and other receivables 9 Available-for-sale financial assets 17 18 Total assets held for sale 67 18 Liabilities Trade and other payables 5 Total liabilities held for sale 5 39 Post balance sheet events On 20 April 2011, the Group announced the sale on a conditional basis of Vietnam Sugar to TH Milk Food Joint Stock Company for cash consideration of 33 million in addition to the Groups share of the value of working capital and net cash to be retained in the business.
The disposal is expected to be completed during the first half of the 2012 financial year.
On 26 May 2011, the Group took the decision to re-open the mothballed facility in McIntosh, Alabama and restart production of sucralose there.
The Group estimates that the re-opening process will take about 12 months and that production will commence in the first half of the financial year ending 31 March 2013.
Capital expenditure of around 13 million is anticipated before the plant can restart.
The decision will result in the reversal of impairment of around 50 million and the release of around 20 million of the McIntosh mothball provision at current exchange rates.
Both the reversal of the impairment and the release of the provision will be recognised as exceptional items in the 2012 financial year.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 107 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 40 Related party disclosures Identity of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, the Groups pension schemes and with key management being its directors and executive officers.
No related party relationships with close family members of the Groups key management existed in the current or comparative year.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Transactions entered into by the Company with subsidiaries and between subsidiaries as well as the resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation and are not required to be disclosed.
Similarly, the Groups share of transactions entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries with joint ventures and between joint ventures as well as the Groups share of the resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation.
Transactions and balances with joint ventures before consolidation eliminations and with associates are as follows: 31 March 2011 2010 Continuing m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures and associates 150 111 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures and associates 221 174 Receivables due from joint ventures and associates 15 18 Payables due to joint ventures and associates 17 8 Financing loans to joint ventures and associates 18 10 deposits from joint ventures and associates 25 3 The Group had no material related party transactions containing unusual commercial terms.
The Group provides guarantees in respect of banking facilities of a joint venture totalling 10 million 2010 21 million.
Key management Key management compensation is disclosed in Note 9.
41 Foreign exchange rates The following exchange rates have been applied in the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: Year to 31 March 2011 2010 Average foreign exchange rates 1 US$ 1.55 1.61 1 1.19 1.13 31 March 2011 2010 Year end foreign exchange rates 1 US$ 1.60 1.52 1 1.13 1.12 42 Main subsidiaries and investments 1 Percentage Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom of equity attributable to Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC 2 G. C. Hahn & Co. Limited Blending 100 3 Tate & Lyle Holdings Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Industries Limited Holding company 100 3 Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC In-house treasury company 100 3 Tate & Lyle Investments Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle LLC Holding company 100 1 Registered in England and Wales, except Tate & Lyle LLC which is registered in Delaware, USA.
2 The Gr oup holds 95% of the issued capital of Hahn and has the right to acquire the remaining 5% through put and call options.
However due to the structure of the acquisition agreement, the Group effectively bears all the risks and rewards for 100% of the business and therefore no minority interest is recognised.
3 Direct subsidiaries of Tate & Lyle PLC.
108 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 42 Main subsidiaries and investments continued Subsidiaries operating overseas Percentage of equity attributable to Country of incorporation or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Argentina Tate & Lyle Argentina SA Cereal sweeteners & starches, Sucralose distribution 100 2 Australia Tate & Lyle ANZ Pty Limited Sucralose distribution and blending 100 Belgium Tate & Lyle Services Belgium NV Holding company 100 Bermuda Tate & Lyle Management & Finance Limited Management & finance 100 1 Brazil Tate & Lyle Brasil do SA Citric acid, Sucralose distribution 100 G. C. Hahn & Co. Estabilizantes e Tecnologia 2 para Alimentos Ltda.
Blending 100 Chile Tate & Lyle Chile Commercial Ltda Cereal sweeteners & starches, Sucralose distribution 100 China Tate & Lyle Trading Shanghai Limited Sucralose distribution 100 G. C. Hahn & Co. Food Stabilizer Business 2 Shanghai Ltd. Blending 100 2 Croatia G. C. Hahn & Co. d. o. o. Blending 100 2 Czech Republic G. C. Hahn & Co. Stabilizacni technika s. r. o. Blending 100 2 France G. C. Hahn & Cie. S. A. R. L. Blending 100 2 Germany G. C. Hahn & Co.  GmbH Blending 100 2 G. C. Hahn & Co. Cooperationsgeschaft mbH Holding company 100 Cesalpinia Germany GmbH Blending 100 Gibraltar Tate & Lyle Insurance Gilbraltar Limited Reinsurance 100 Hong Kong Tate & Lyle Asia Limited Sucralose distribution 100 2 Hungary G. C. Hahn & Co.  Kft Blending 100 Italy Tate & Lyle Italia Spa Blending 100 Israel Tate & Lyle Gadot Manufacturing Sugar refining 65 Tate & Lyle Israel Limited Sugar trading 100 2 Lithuania UAB Litauen G. C. Hahn & Co. Blending 100 Mexico Tate & Lyle Mexico S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Holding company 100 Morocco Tate & Lyle Morocco SA Cereal sweeteners & starches 100 Netherlands Tate & Lyle Holland BV Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Netherlands BV Cereal sweeteners & starches, Sucralose distribution 100 Nederlandse Glucose Industrie BV Holding company 100 2 Poland G. C. Hahn & Co. Technika stabilizowania sp.
z. o. o. Blending 100 Singapore Tate & Lyle Singapore Pte Ltd High-intensity sweeteners 100 South Africa Tate & Lyle South Africa Pty Limited Blending 100 Spain G. C. Hahn Estabilizantes y Tecnologia 2 Blending para Alimentos 100 2 Ukraine G. C. Hahn Blending 100 USA Staley Holdings LLC Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Custom Ingredients LLC Blending 100 Tate & Lyle Finance LLC In-house banking 100 TLHUS, Inc Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Ingredients Americas, LLC Cereal sweeteners & starches 100 Tate & Lyle Sucralose LLC High-intensity sweeteners 100 TLI Holding LLC In-house banking 100 1 Non-coterminous year-end.
2 The Group holds 95% of the issued capital of Hahn and has the right to acquire the remaining 5% through a call option.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 109 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 42 Main subsidiaries and investments continued Joint ventures Percentage of equity attributable to Country of incorporation or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC 1,2 Bulgaria Amylum Bulgaria EAD Cereal sweeteners & starches 100 50 2 Columbia Sucromiles SA Citric acid 50 1,2 Hungary Hungrana Kft Cereal sweeteners & starches 50 25 2 Mexico Almidones Mexicanos SA Cereal sweeteners & starches 50 Netherlands Eaststarch CV Holding company 50 1 Slovakia Amylum Slovakia spol sro Cereal sweeteners & starches 100 50 1 Turkey Amylum Nisasta AS Cereal sweeteners & starches 100 50 USA DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Products Company LLC Industrial ingredients 50 1 Share capital held by Eaststarch CV 2 Non-coterminous year-end.
Associates Percentage of equity attributable to Country of incorporation or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Thailand Tapioca Development Corporation Starch production 33.3 1 Indirect associates of Tate & Lyle PLC.
The proportion of shares held by Tate & Lyle PLC, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is shown in brackets where it is different from the percentage of equity attributable to Tate & Lyle PLC.
Those entities which have non-coterminous year ends are consolidated in the Group financial statements using management accounts for the period to 31 March.
110 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 43 Reconciliation to adjusted information As explained in Note 1, adjusted information is presented as it provides both management and investors with valuable additional information on the performance of the business.
The following items are excluded from adjusted information: exceptional items including profits and losses on disposals of businesses, impairments, and closure and restructuring provisions: and amortisation of intangibles acquired through business combinations.
The following table shows the reconciliation of the statutory information presented in the income statement to the adjusted information: Year to 31 March 2011 Year to 31 March 2010 Exceptional Exceptional m unless otherwise stated Reported amortisation Adjusted Reported amortisation Adjusted Continuing operations Sales 2 720 2 720 2 533 2 533 Operating profit loss 303 18 321 44 312 268 Net finance expense 58 58 72 72 Profit loss before tax 245 18 263 116 312 196 Income tax expense credit 49 49 95 136 41 Non-controlling interests Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company 196 18 214 21 176 155 Basic EPS pence 42.6 3.9 46.5 4.7 38.6 33.9 Diluted EPS pence 41.9 3.8 45.7 4.7 38.4 33.7 Tax rate 19.7% 18.5% 81.9% 20.8% Discontinued operations Sales 590 590 1 074 1 074 Operating loss profit 45 43 2 50 22 28 Net finance income 1 1 Loss profit before tax 45 43 2 51 22 29 Income tax credit expense 16 19 3 11 5 6 Non-controlling interests 4 4 4 4 Loss profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 33 24 9 36 17 19 Basic EPS pence 7.3 5.4 1.9 8.0 3.7 4.3 Diluted EPS pence 7.2 5.3 1.9 8.0 3.7 4.3 Total operations Sales 3 310 3 310 3 607 3 607 Operating profit 258 61 319 6 290 296 Net finance expense 58 58 71 71 Profit loss before tax 200 61 261 65 290 225 Income tax expense credit 33 19 52 84 131 47 Non-controlling interests 4 4 4 4 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 163 42 205 15 159 174 Basic EPS pence 35.3 9.3 44.6 3.3 34.9 38.2 Diluted EPS pence 34.7 9.1 43.8 3.3 34.7 38.0 Tax rate 16.4% 19.7% 129.2% 20.9% Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 111 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information
