Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice of meeting is important and requires your immediate B comprising equity securities as dened in the Companies Act attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, 2006 up to a nominal amount of 21,432,654 such amount to you are recommended to seek your own financial advice immediately be reduced by any shares and rights to subscribe for or convert from a stockbroker, solicitor, bank manager, accountant, or other any security into shares allotted under paragraph A above in independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: and Markets Act 2000. i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Taylor practicable to their existing holdings: and Wimpey plc the Company, please pass this document together ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary: to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
If you have and so that the Boar d may impose any limits or restrictions and sold or transferred part only of your holding of shares in the Company, make any arrangements which it considers necessary or please consult the person who arranged the sale or transfer.
appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under Notice is hereby given of the seventy seventh Annual General Meeting the laws of, any territory or any other matter, of the Company to be held on 26 April 2012 at 11:00 am at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, such authorities to apply until the end of the Annual General WC1H 9JP for the following purposes: Meeting of the Company in 2013 or, if earlier, until the close of business on 25 July 2013 but, in each case, so that the Company Ordinary Business may make offers and enter into agreements during this period Ordinary Resolutions: which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to 1.
To receive the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors and the subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011. the authority ends: and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such 2.
To declare due and payable on 22 May 2012 a final dividend of offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
0.38 pence per ordinary share of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 to shareholders on the register at close of Special Resolutions: business on 20 April 2012.
That, if resolution 14 is passed, the Board be given the power to allot equity securities as dened in the Companies Act 2006 for 3.
To re-elect as a Director, Kevin Beeston.
cash under the authority given by that resolution and or to sell 4.
To re-elect as a Director, Pete Redfern.
ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash, free of the restriction in Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, 5.
To re-elect as a Director, Ryan Mangold.
To re-elect as a Director, Kate Barker CBE.
A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares 7.
To re-elect as a Director, Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde.
for cash in connection with an offer of or invitation to apply for equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under 8.
To re-elect as a Director, Anthony Reading MBE.
paragraph B of resolution 14, by way of a rights issue only : 9.
To re-elect as a Director, Robert Rowley.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 10.
To elect as a Director, Mike Hussey who was appointed as a Director of the Company by the Board since the last Annual ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the General Meeting.
rights of those securities or, as the Board otherwise considers necessary: 11.
To elect as a Director, James Jordan who was appointed as a Director of the Company by the Board since the last Annual and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and General Meeting.
make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, 12.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and accounts are laid before the Company.
B in the case of the authority granted under paragraph A 13.
Subject to the passing of resolution 12, to authorise the Audit of resolution 14 and or in the case of any sale of treasury Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors on behalf shares for cash, to the allotment otherwise than under of the Board.
paragraph A above of equity securities up to a nominal 14.
That the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot amount of 1,607,449, shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or such power to apply until the end of the Annual General Meeting convert any security into shares in the Company: of the Company in 2013 or, if earlier, until the close of business A up to a nominal amount of 10,716,327 such amount to on 25 July 2013, but during this period the Company may make be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require as dened in the Companies Act 2006 allotted under equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after paragraph B below in excess of 10,716,327 : and the power ends: and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
106 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 16.
That the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help us to register your of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the attendance without delay.
Registration will be available from 9:30 am meaning of Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of the on the day of the meeting.
For the safety and comfort of those ordinary shares of 1p each of the Company ordinary shares, attending the meeting, large bags, cameras, recording equipment provided that: and similar items will not be allowed into the building.
The meeting will commence at 11:00 am and light refreshments will be available from A the maximum number of or dinary shares hereby authorised 9:30 am and also after the conclusion of the meeting.
There is to be purchased shall be 321,489,828: wheelchair access to the venue for shareholders who require it or those B the minimum price which may be paid for or dinary shares with reduced mobility.
However, attendees are strongly advised to bring their own carers to assist with their general mobility around the venue.
is 1p per ordinary share: An induction loop system operates in the meeting room.
Directions to C the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be the venue can be found on the reverse of your attendance card.
paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the If you would like to vote on the resolutions but cannot come to the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share Annual General Meeting, please ll in the proxy form sent to you with as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List this notice and return it to our registrar as soon as possible.
They for the five business days immediately preceding the date on must receive it by no later than 11:00 am on 24 April 2012.
If you which such ordinary share is purchased: prefer, you can submit your proxy electronically either via the internet D the authority her eby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the at www.
com or, if you are a CREST member, through conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in the CREST system by completing and transmitting a CREST proxy 2013 and 25 October 2013 unless such authority is renewed instruction as described in the procedural notes below.
prior to such time: and Recommendation E the Company may make contracts to pur chase ordinary shares Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed at under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders as authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
Each Director expiry of such authority, and may purchase ordinary shares in will be doing so in respect of his or her own beneficial shareholding.
pursuance of any such contracts, as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
Inspection of documents The following documents will be available for inspection at the Special Business Companys registered ofce, Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Ordinary Resolutions: Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR, during normal business 17.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended hours from the date of this notice of meeting until the date of the 31 December 2011.
Annual General Meeting and at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London WC1H 9JP from 18.
That in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the Companies 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting until it ends: Act 2006, the Company and all companies which are its subsidiaries when this resolution is passed are authorised to: t copies of the Executive Directors service contracts: and A make political donations to political parties and or independent t copies of the letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non election candidates not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: Executive Directors.
B make political donations to political organisations other than A copy of the full Annual Report and Financial Statements of the political parties not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: and Company for the year ended 31 December 2011, including the Directors Remuneration Report referred to in resolution 17, is also C incur political expenditur e not exceeding 250,000 available on our Web site plc.
in aggregate, By Order of the Board during the period beginning with the date of passing this resolution and ending at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2013.
For the purposes of this resolution the terms political donations, political parties, independent election candidates, political James Jordan organisation and political expenditure have the meanings given by Sections 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006.
Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Special Resolution: Taylor Wimpey plc 19.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting Registered Ofce: of the Company may continue to be called on not less than 14 Gate House clear days notice.
Turnpike Road High Wycombe Explanatory notes relating to each of the above resolutions are set out Buckinghamshire on pages 109 to 113.
HP12 3NR Action to be taken Registered in England and Wales under number 296805 If you wish to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in person, please bring with you the attendance card accompanying this 28 February 2012 document and retain it until the end of the meeting.
It will authenticate Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 107 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Notes to the Notice of Meeting 5.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument Procedural notes or any CREST Proxy Instruction as further described in notes 1.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting 8 and 9 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she the votes which shareholders may cast, shareholders must be wishes to do so.
registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6:00 pm on 24 April 2012 or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to meeting.
Shareholders then on the Register of Members enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant Register someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General of Members after that deadline shall be disregarded in Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy determining the rights of any person to attend and vote appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, at the Annual General Meeting.
under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
As at 28 February 2012 being the last business day prior to persons should direct any communications and enquiries to the the publication of this notice the Companys issued share registered holder of the shares by whom they were nominated capital consisted of 3,207,563,590 ordinary shares, carrying and not to the Company or its registrar.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 28 February 2012 were 3,207,563,590.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 3 and 4 above does not apply 3.
If you are a shareholder of the Company at the time and date to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can set out in note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
exercise all or any of your rights to attend and to speak and vote on your behalf at the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights do so by using the procedures described in the CREST attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company but must members, and those CREST members who have appointed a attend the Annual General Meeting to represent you.
A proxy service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or form which may be used to make such appointment and give voting service provider s, who will be able to take the proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
If you do not have appropriate action on their behalf.
a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the require additional forms, please contact Capita Registrars on CREST service to be valid, it must be properly authenticated 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds lines are open 8:30 am to 5:30 pm Monday to Friday.
specications, and must contain the information required for 4.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available proxy must be received by post to Freepost RSBH-UXKSvia www.
The message, regardless of LRBC, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an BR3 4TU, or during normal business hours only by hand at amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, or, if you prefer, electronically via received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11:00 am on the internet at www.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be member of CREST, via the service provided by Euroclear UK taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied and Ireland Limited at the electronic address provided in note to the message by the CREST Application Host from which 9, in each case no later than 11:00 am on 24 April 2012.
All the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry forms of proxy received after this time will be void.
A form of to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time proxy sent electronically at any time that is found to contain any any change of instructions to proxies appointed through virus will not be accepted.
CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
108 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 10.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors 14.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and questions and participate in the meeting.
The Company Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in must cause to be answered any such question relating to the CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST need be given if: i to do so would interfere unduly with the Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST condential information: ii the answer has already been given personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a on a Web site in the form of an answer to a question: or iii it is voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order voting service provider s take s such action as shall be of the meeting that the question be answered.
necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means 15.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors at plc.
or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations 16.
Voting on all resolutions at this years Annual General Meeting of the CREST system and timings.
will be conducted by way of a poll, rather than on a show of hands.
The Board believes that a poll is more representative of 11.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction shareholders voting intentions because it gives as many in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the shareholders as possible the opportunity to have their votes Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. counted whether their votes are tendered by proxy in advance 12.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more of, or in person at, the Annual General Meeting.
The results of corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all the poll will be announced via a Regulatory News Service and of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in made available at plc.
co. uk as soon as relation to the same shares.
practicable after the Annual General Meeting.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have ORDINARY BUSINESS the right to require the Company to publish on a Web site a Ordinary Resolutions statement setting out any matter relating to: Resolution 1: To receive the annual report and i the audit of the Company s accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid financial statements before the Annual General Meeting: or English company law requires the Directors to lay the Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 ii any cir cumstance connected with an auditor of the and the reports of the Directors and Auditors before a general Company ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting meeting of the Company.
at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 0.38 The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011. such Web site publication to pay its expenses in complying If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where paid on 22 May 2012 to shareholders who are on the Register of the Company is required to place a statement on a Web site Members at the close of business on 20 April 2012. under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the Web site.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a Web site.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 109 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued Dividend Re-Investment Plan The following summary information is given in support of the Subject to shareholders approving the dividend as set out Boards proposal for the election or re-election as appropriate in Resolution 2 at the Annual General Meeting scheduled of the Directors of the Company: for 26 April 2012, the Company will be offering a Dividend Kevin Beeston offers himself for re-election.
Re-Investment Plan the DRI Plan.
For 2012 and in future years, Kevin has been a Non Executive Director and Chairman of the the DRI Plan will be provided and administered by the DRI Plan Group since July 2010.
The Board is satisfied that he continues administrator, Capita IRG Trustees Limited, which is authorised to be independent in character and judgement in applying his and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The DRI expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Nomination Plan will offer shareholders the opportunity to elect to invest cash Committee which he Chairs and the Remuneration Committee, dividends received on their ordinary shares, in purchasing further and that his other commitments do not detract from the extent ordinary shares of the Company.
These shares would be bought in or quality of time which he is able to devote to the Company.
the market, on competitive dealing terms.
His biography appears on page 28.
All shareholders will shortly be sent details of the DRI Plan and Pete Redfern offers himself for re-election.
how it will be offered in connection with the proposed 2011 final Pete has been Chief Executive since July 2007 and was previously cash dividend.
This will include, for current participants in the Group Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc.
His biography Taylor Wimpey DRI Plan, details of certain changes to the terms appears on page 28. and conditions which are necessary from an FSA compliance perspective.
Ryan Mangold offers himself for re-election.
Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRI Plan and the Ryan has been Group Finance Director since November 2010.
His biography appears on page 28. actions required to participate will be available on the Companys Web site: plc.
co. uk or on request from the registrar, Kate Barker CBE offers herself for re-election.
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kate has been an Independent Non Executive Director since Kent, BR3 4TU, e-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.
The Board is satisfied that she continues to be tel: 0871 664 0300 UK or 44 20 8639 3399 overseas.
independent in character and judgement in applying her expertise Resolutions 3 to 11: Election of Directors at meetings of the Board and of the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that her other commitments do not detract from In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject the extent or quality of time which she is able to devote to the Company.
Her biography appears on page 29. to annual election by shareholders, the Board has resolved that all Directors of the Company will retire and, being eligible, offer Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde offers herself themselves for re-election or election as appropriate by for re-election.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Brenda has been an Independent Non Executive Director since Mike Hussey and James Jordan, who were each appointed as July 2007.
She has been subjected to a rigorous annual appraisal, Directors of the Company by the Board since the last Annual having served for eight years in that capacity including previously General Meeting, held in April 2011, will retire and offer themselves for George Wimpey Plc.
The Board is satisfied that she continues for election by shareholders for the first time, as is required by the to be independent in character and judgement in applying her Companys Articles of Association.
expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and that her other commitments do Details of the Directors service contracts, remuneration and not detract from the extent or quality of time which she is able to interests in the Companys shares and other securities are given devote to the Company.
Her biography appears on page 29. in the Directors Remuneration Report to shareholders on pages 39 to 50 of the Report and Accounts.
Full biographical information Anthony Reading MBE offers himself for re-election.
concerning each Director is on pages 28 and 29 of the Report and Tony has been an Independent Non Executive Director since Accounts.
He has been subjected to a rigorous annual appraisal, having served for six years in that capacity including previously for George Wimpey Plc and will have completed seven years by the time of the Annual General Meeting.
The Board is satisfied that he continues to be independent in character and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Remuneration Committee which he Chairs and the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that his other commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page 29.
110 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Robert Rowley offers himself for re-election.
Resolution 13: Authorisation of the Audit Committee Rob has been an Independent Non Executive Director since to agree on behalf of the Board the remuneration January 2010 and the Senior Independent Director since of Deloitte as auditors April 2010.
The Board is satisfied that he continues to be The Board seeks shareholders authority for the Audit Committee independent in character and judgement in applying his expertise to determine on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte for at meetings of the Board and of the Audit Committee which he their services.
The Board has adopted a procedure governing the Chairs and the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and appointment of Deloitte to carry out non-audit services, details of that his other commitments do not detract from the extent or which are given in the Corporate Governance Report.
Details of quality of time which he is able to devote to the Company.
His non-audit services performed by Deloitte in 2011 are given in biography appears on page 28.
Note 5 on page 69 of the Report and Accounts.
The Board confirms that each of the above Directors has recently Resolution 14: Authority to allot shares been subject to formal performance evaluation, details of which are Your Directors wish to renew the existing authority to allot unissued set out in the Corporate Governance Report, and that each shares in the Company, which was granted at the Companys last continues to demonstrate commitment and to be an effective Annual General Meeting held on 21 April 2011 and is due to expire member of the Board.
at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Paragraph A of resolution 14 would give the Directors the Mike Hussey appointed since last AGM and offers authority to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or himself for election.
convert any securities into ordinary shares up to an aggregate Mike was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 July 2011. nominal amount equal to 10,716,327 representing 1,071,632,700 He is Chief Executive of Alcamantar and has held a number of ordinary shares.
This amount represents approximately one-third senior roles in the property sector.
The Board is satisfied that he is of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 14 March independent in character and judgement and that his other 2012, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time of meeting.
which he will be able to devote to the Company In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers James Jordan appointed since last AGM and offers ABI, paragraph B of resolution 14 would give the Directors himself for election.
authority to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or James was appointed as a Director on 21 July 2011.
He is the convert any securities into ordinary shares in connection with a Legal Director for the Group and is also the Group Company rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate Secretary, a position he has held since 2007.
He has a wealth of nominal amount equal to 21,432,654 representing 2,143,265,400 experience, having previously been Group Company Secretary and ordinary shares, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares General Counsel of George Wimpey Plc between 2002 and 2007, issued under paragraph A of resolution 14.
This amount before when he was appointed to the same position with Taylor Wimpey any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the issued plc.
James is a solicitor and held a number of posts in other ordinary share capital of the Company as at 14 March 2012, the industrial sectors prior to joining the George Wimpey Plc.
latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice of meeting.
Resolution 12: Re-appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of resolution as auditors of the Company 14 will expire at the earlier of 25 July 2013 and the conclusion of In accordance with English company law, the Company is required the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013. to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the are laid before the shareholders.
It is therefore proposed that authorities sought under this resolution.
However, if they do the auditors are appointed from the conclusion of the 2012 exercise the authorities, the Directors intend to follow ABI Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general recommendations concerning their use including as regards meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders.
The the Directors standing for re-election in certain cases.
Board recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte as the Companys auditors.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 111 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued Special Resolutions Companys issued share capital.
Accordingly, any shares bought back over the 10% limit will be cancelled.
The Company currently Resolution 15: Authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights holds no shares in treasury.
The Board wishes to renew the existing authority from shareholders to allot shares or sell any shares held in treasury for cash otherwise This is a standard resolution, sought by the majority of public than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
Resolution listed companies at Annual General Meetings.
The Boards current 15, which will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore intention of utilising this authority is generally limited to acquiring requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour, would give shares for the various share scheme arrangements.
We would the Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares or sell any only consider a more formal share purchase programme if it ordinary shares which the Company elects to hold in treasury would result in an increase in earnings per share and was in for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in the best interests of shareholders generally, having regard to proportion to their existing shareholdings.
This authority would be, similar to previous years, limited to The total number of options, conditional share awards and allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding as at the to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those close of business on 14 March 2012 was 120,146,771, shares or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise representing approximately 3.7% of the issued ordinary share up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,607,449 representing capital of the Company as at that date and approximately 4.2 % of 160,744,900 ordinary shares.
This aggregate nominal amount the Companys issued ordinary share capital following any exercise represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital in full of this authority to make market purchases.
of the Company as at 14 March 2012, the latest practicable date The Company has warrants over 39,715,323 ordinary shares, prior to publication of this notice.
In respect of this aggregate nominal representing 1.2% of the Companys ordinary issued share capital amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions as at close of business on 14 March 2012.
If the authority given by of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding Resolution 16 were to be fully used, these would represent 1.4% of cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period the Companys ordinary issued share capital at that date.
where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
This authority will last until the earlier of 25 October 2013 and the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2013.
The authority will expire at the earlier of 25 July 2013 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held SPECIAL BUSINESS in 2013.
Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 16: Authority to make market purchases of shares Resolution 17: Approval of the Directors Remuneration This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 therefore requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
The Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended Any purchases under this authority would be made in one or more 31 December 2011 has been prepared in accordance with tranches and would be limited in aggregate to 10% of the ordinary Sections 420 and 421 of the Companies Act 2006.
Section 439 shares of the Company in issue at the close of business on of said Act requires the Company to give shareholders notice of an 14 March 2012. ordinary resolution approving the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 39 to 50 of The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of the authority the Report and Accounts.
The Board considers that appropriate would not exceed 105% of the average of the middle market executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping to achieve quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the five business the Companys overall objectives.
The vote on the Remuneration days immediately preceding the date of the purchase.
Shares Report has advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy purchased pursuant to these authorities could be held as and overall remuneration packages and is not specic to individual treasury shares, which the Company can re-issue quickly and levels of remuneration.
cost-effectively, and provides the Company with additional exibility in the management of its capital base.
The total number of shares held as treasury shall not at any one time exceed 10% of the 112 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Resolution 18: Authority to make political donations General Meetings, which will continue to be held on at least In order to comply with its obligations under the Companies Act 21 clear days notice on not less than 14 clear days notice.
As 2006 and to avoid any inadvertent infringement of that Act, the this approval will expire at the conclusion of this Annual General Board wishes to renew its existing authority for a general level of Meeting, Resolution 19 proposes its renewal.
The shorter notice political donation and or expenditure.
Resolution 18 seeks to renew period of 14 clear days would not be used as a matter of routine the existing authority for the Company to make political donations for any general meeting, but only where the exibility is merited by and incur political expenditure.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the business of a particular meeting and is thought to be to the this authority to be divided into three heads as set out in advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The renewed approval will Resolution 18 with a separate amount specified as permitted for be effective until the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2013, each.
An amount not exceeding 250,000 for each head of the when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
In accordance with the Companies Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less Act 2006, Resolution 18 extends approval to all of the Companys than 21 clear days notice, the Company must in respect of that subsidiaries.
meeting make available electronic voting to all shareholders.
This authority will last until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2013, unless renewal is sought at that meeting.
The Company and the Group do not make any donations to political parties or organisations but do support certain industrywide initiatives such as the Home Builders Federation in the UK.
Whilst we do not regard this as political in nature, in certain circumstances donations made for charitable or similar purposes could possibly be treated as a donation to a political organisation under the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
For example, a donation to a humanitarian charity which may also operate as a political lobby, sponsorship, subscriptions, paid leave to employees fullling public duties and payments to industry representative bodies could constitute a donation to a political organisation within the current denitions in the Companies Act 2006.
Details of the Companys and the Groups charitable donations appear on page 53 of the Report and Accounts.
Special Resolution Resolution 19: Notice of general meetings This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 have increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, a resolution was passed approving the Companys ability to call general meetings other than Annual Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 113
