FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Parent Company financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation Current asset investments The Company financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP Current asset investments relate to money market deposits which are using the historical cost convention modified for the revaluation of stated at cost.
All income from these investments is included in the certain financial instruments, in accordance with applicable accounting Parent Company Profit and Loss Account as interest receivable and standards and the Companies Act 2006. similar income.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures prior financial year 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010.
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies is set out below.
Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are Exemptions translated into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rates prevailing at the The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under balance sheet date of the financial year.
Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a Profit and Loss Account for the Company alone.
Share-based payments Employees of the Company receive part of their remuneration in the The Company has taken advantage of the FRS 29 Financial form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render Instruments: Disclosures exemption and not provided derivative services in exchange for shares, rights over shares equity-settled financial instrument disclosures of the Company alone.
transactions or in exchange for cash.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 grant date using the Black-Scholes model.
In accordance with FRS 20 Cash Flow Statement.
The cash flows of the Company are included Share-Based Payment the resulting cost is charged to the Parent in the Tesco PLC Group financial statements.
Company Profit and Loss Account over the vesting period.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosure from disclosing related party transactions with entities that Where the Company awards options to employees of subsidiary entities, are part of the Tesco PLC Group.
this is treated as a capital contribution.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosure Financial instruments Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted, following new Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Parent amendments to FRS interpretations.
These have not had a significant Companys Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the impact on the results or net assets of the Company: contractual provisions of the instrument.
Amendment to FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Presentation on Debtors Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, Debtors are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010. value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
Amendment to FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Presentation Presentation on Classification of Rights Issues, effective for annual Financial liabilities and equity instruments periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity Amendment to FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and instrument is any contract that gives a residual interest in the assets Measurement on Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual periods of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments beginning on or after 1 July 2009. issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Amendment to FRS 20 Share Based Payment, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at UITF 48 Abstract Accounting implications of the replacement of the value of the amount received, net of attributable transaction costs.
RPI with CPI, effective for annual periods beginning on or after Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated 1 January 2010. at amortised cost with any differences between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Parent Company Profit and Loss Account Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective, but not over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
expected to have a significant impact on the Company: Other creditors UITF Abstract 47 Extinguishing liabilities with equity instruments, Other creditors, except for intercompany creditors, are non interesteffective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010. bearing and stated at amortised cost.
Intercompany creditors are either interest-bearing or non interest-bearing depending on the type and Improvements to FRSs, effective for annual periods beginning on or duration of creditor relationship.
FRS 30 Heritage Assets, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 April 2010.
148 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the operating, financing and investing activities.
The Company does not hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes, forecasted transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the however if derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting they are Parent Company Profit and Loss Account.
If a forecasted hedged accounted for as such.
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Parent Company Profit Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by reference to market values for similar financial instruments, discounted Net investment hedging cash flows or use of option valuation models.
Where derivatives do not Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on remeasurement are hedges when they hedge the Companys net investment in an overseas immediately recognised in the Parent Company Profit and Loss Account.
The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any from remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly in resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship equity.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Parent and the items being hedged.
Company Profit and Loss Account.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Parent Company Profit and Loss Account In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Company is required to when the foreign operation is disposed of.
document, from inception, the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Company is also required to Derivative instruments qualifying for net investment hedging are document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between principally forward exchange transactions and interest rate swaps.
the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness Pensions testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge The Company participates in the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme which is remains highly effective.
a multi-employer scheme within the Tesco Group and cannot identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme.
Accordingly, Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one as permitted by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the Company has year from the balance sheet date are disclosed as falling due after more accounted for the scheme as a defined contribution scheme, and the than one year.
charge for the period is based upon the cash contributions payable.
Fair value hedging Taxation Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit for the year, they hedge the Companys exposure to changes in the fair value of a using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives sheet date.
that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Parent Company Profit and Loss Account, together with any changes in Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date and would give rise to an obligation to pay more or less taxation in the future.
Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge accounting are principally interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are recoverable.
They are regarded as recoverable to the extent that on the basis of all Cash flow hedging available evidence, it is regarded as more likely than not that there will Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the they hedge the Companys exposure to variability in cash flows that are underlying timing differences can be deducted.
either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discontinued basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences The effective element of any gain or loss from remeasuring the reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been substantively derivative instrument is recognised directly in equity.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Parent Company Profit and Loss Account in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects the Parent Company Profit and Loss Account.
The classification of the effective portion when recognised in the Parent Company Profit and Loss Account is the same as the classification of the hedged transaction.
Any element of the remeasurement criteria of the derivative instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge is recognised immediately in the Parent Company Profit and Loss Account.
Derivative financial instruments qualifying for cash flow hedging are principally forward foreign exchange transactions and interest rate swaps.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 149
