BUSINESS REVIEW 105.5m Building our team Value of shares awarded under Shares In Success To build our team 75% We pay at least 75% of so that we create employee medical, dental, prescription and vision costs in the US more value We treat people how we like to be treated.
We want our people Talent and promotions to enjoy working at Tesco.
Our people do a great job each One of our People Promises is an opportunity to get on.
and every day by giving our customers the best possible We promise to support and develop our people throughout shopping trip.
By creating an open environment of trust and respect, our We want the women in our teams to achieve their full potential.
people feel supported, they share their knowledge and In the last four years the number of female directors has experience and work hard to give our customers great service.
increased by nearly 70% across the Group, and we have three We support our people, trusting in their ability to deliver while women on our Board.
helping them to reach their full potential.
We encourage our people to learn on the job and take responsibility from day one.
Building capability Every year, we build our plans for the year around our People As part of our ongoing commitment to building capability, Promises.
We want all of our people across all of our markets to: we are investing in the Tesco Academy.
Our Academy supports the development of our people through training courses, be treated with respect: networking opportunities and mentoring.
have an opportunity to get on: In July, we will open our zero-carbon Academy centre in have a manager who helps them: and Incheon, South Korea.
Asia is a rapidly growing region for Tesco and the Academy will help us to build capability in the area.
In China, our Store Manager Programme has been created so Its through our People Promises and our benefits package that we can recruit and develop people to become our future that we are proud to say that our people stay with us for a Store Managers.
The programme started in October 2010 with long time.
Around half of our Director population has at least 22 candidates taking part.
In recognition of the importance of people across our business, Rewards and benefits our Group Personnel Director, Alison Horner, is now part of Our people do a great job for our customers and we want our Executive Committee.
Alison is a great example of talent them to feel valued and rewarded.
We invest in pay and, in developed in Tesco, with 12 years of experience across the the UK, we have the highest pay rates for customer assistants business in both Personnel and Operations.
Recruitment and growth Across all of our markets, we offer a wide range of competitive benefits.
In the US, we pay at least 75% of medical, dental, As Tesco grows and diversifies, we are able to offer more jobs prescription and vision costs.
In the UK we have an open to people in the communities around our stores, depots and defined benefit pension scheme which is greatly valued by offices.
This year we have recruited 21,000 people worldwide.
our staff and rare among FTSE 100 companies.
Our graduate programmes fast track graduate trainees with Share ownership incentive schemes help our staff to get their high potential into leadership positions.
This year we have own personal stake in Tesco.
216,000 staff shared a total of recruited around 140 Commercial graduates into UK and 105.5 million when the Shares |n Success scheme matured Central European buying and general merchandise roles in 2010. the largest number of Commercial graduates that we have employed since the programme began.
This is part of our ongoing commitment to invest in future leaders.
28 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 CAREER DEVELOPMENT We believe that home-grown managers make valuable business leaders because they understand our culture and approach.
Our new CEO, Philip Clarke, is an example of this, having started work at Tesco part-time as a schoolboy.
Across the business, we currently have almost 30,000 people on development programmes, gaining the knowledge, leadership skills and qualifications for their next role.
30,000 People training for their next role TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 29
