BUSINESS REVIEW Our business Business review Our strategy Our services businesses have come a long way since we first included in our strategy the desire to develop retailing services.
In 1997, Tesco set out a strategy to grow the core business Today these parts of Tesco generate 583 million profit, and diversify with new products and services in existing and representing 16% of the Group total.
To date this has been new markets.
This strategy enabled us to deliver strong, largely UK-focused, but as many of our international businesses sustained growth over the past 14 years.
Weve followed have now established well-known brands in their local market, customers into large expanding markets in the UK such as it is time to expand our ambitions and aim to grow retail financial services, general merchandise and telecoms and services in all our markets.
new markets abroad, initially in Europe and Asia and more recently in the United States.
In 2007, we added a fifth element to our strategy to underpin our commitment to communities and the environment.
In order to reflect changing consumer needs and the Weve updated this objective slightly by emphasising our increasingly global nature of our business weve evolved our responsibilities in these areas.
Our goal is to put our strategy.
The strategy now has seven parts and applies to our responsibilities to the communities we serve at the five business segments the UK, Asia, Europe, the United heart of what we do.
There are two new strategic goals, both of which reflect the Some elements of the strategy remain unchanged.
The goal way that Tesco has developed over the last decade and our to grow the core UK business is as relevant today as it was in areas of emphasis for the future.
The UK is the largest business in the Group and a key driver of sales and profit.
There are many opportunities for The first is to be a creator of highly valued brands.
Our brand has evolved from a logo above a few stores in the UK further growth and so we will continue to grow the UK core.
to a multitude of store, product and service brands across the Another of our original goals was to be a successful world.
Building brands gives our business more meaning with international retailer.
In 1997, our international businesses our customers.
On one level, this relates to our Retail brands generated 1.8% of the Groups profits.
Today they represent such as the Tesco brand itself, but it also refers to our Product 25% and were now either number one or number two in eight brands such as F&F and Technika and our Pillar brands such as of our 13 markets outside the UK.
Our next step is to be an outstanding international retailer Our final goal is to build our team so that we create more in stores and online.
As our business continues to grow and diversify we need In 1997, we were largely a food retailer so we set ourselves more leaders to run the many substantial business and support the challenge of becoming as strong in non-food as in food.
Our leaders not only have an As our business has grown and we offer an ever wider variety important role today, but also have a responsibility to help build of products to customers, the term non-food no longer does a bigger and better team for the future.
justice to all the products and services we sell.
We now aim Our progress in these areas is reviewed over the following pages.
to be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food.
14 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 Our sevenpart strategy To grow the UK core 16 To be an outstanding international retailer in stores and online 18 To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food 20 To grow retail services in all our markets 22 To put our responsibilities to the communities we serve at the heart of what we do 24 To be a creator of highly valued brands 26 To build our team so that we create more value 28 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 15
