Overview Business review Governance Financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners is effective from Where hedge accounting is not applied to certain hedging periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009.
It provides guidance on arrangements, the reported results reflect the movement in fair value the appropriate accounting treatment when an entity distributes assets of related derivatives due to changes in foreign exchange and interest other than cash as dividends to its shareholders.
In addition, at each year end, any gain or loss accruing on open contracts is recognised in the Group Income Statement for the financial IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers is effective from periods year, regardless of the expected outcome of the hedging contract on commencing on or after 1 July 2009.
It concludes that when an item termination.
This may mean that the Group Income Statement charge of property, plant and equipment transferred meets the definition of is highly volatile, whilst the resulting cash flows may not be as volatile.
an asset from the perspective of the recipient, the recipient should The underlying profit measure removes this volatility to help better recognise the asset at its fair value on the date of the accordance with identify underlying business performance.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Income Statement charge As of the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following for pensions.
Under IAS 19 the cost of providing pension benefits standards were in issue but not yet effective.
The Group has not applied in the future is discounted to a present value at the corporate bond these standards in the preparation of the financial statements: yield rates applicable on the last day of the previous financial year.
Corporate bond yield rates vary over time which in turn creates IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective from periods commencing volatility in the Group Income Statement and Group Balance Sheet.
It adds guidance on the classification and IAS 19 also increases the charge for young pension schemes, such as measurement of financial assets and liabilities.
It only permits the Tescos, by requiring the use of rates which do not take into account recognition of fair value gains and losses in other comprehensive income the future expected returns on the assets held in the pension scheme if they relate to equity investments that are not held for trading.
which will fund pension liabilities as they fall due.
The sum of these IAS 24 Amended Related party disclosures is effective from periods two effects can make the IAS 19 charge disproportionately higher commencing on or after 1 January 2011.
It clarifies and simplifies the and more volatile than the cash contributions the Group is required to definition of a related party and will require certain entities to make make in order to fund all future liabilities.
Therefore, within underlying additional disclosures.
profit we have included the normal cash contributions for pensions but excluded the volatile element of IAS 19 to represent what the IFRIC 14 Amended Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement Group believes to be a fairer measure of the cost of providing postis effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2011.
corrects an unintended consequence where in some circumstances entities are not entitled to recognise as an asset some voluntary IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods.
prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
The amount charged to the Group Income Statement in respect of operating lease costs and incentives is expected to increase significantly IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities and equity instruments is as the Group expands its international business.
The leases have been effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2010.
It requires structured in a way to increase annual lease costs as the businesses that where a debtor issues equity instruments to a creditor to settle expand.
IAS 17 requires the total cost of a lease to be recognised on a all or part of a financial liability, these instruments should be deemed straight-line basis over the term of the lease, irrespective of the actual fully paid and measured at the fair value of the liability extinguished.
This adjustment also impacts the Groups operating profit and rental income within the share of post-tax profits of joint The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future adoption ventures and associates.
of these standards is still under review.
Other than IFRS 9, where the Group is continuing to assess the materiality of the impact of this new IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations intangible asset standard, the Group does not expect any of the changes to have material amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions.
Under IFRS 3 effect on the result or net assets of the Group.
intangible assets are separately identified and fair valued.
The intangible assets are required to be amortised on a straight-line basis over their Use of non-GAAP profit measures underlying profit before tax useful economic lives and as such is a non-cash charge that does not The Directors believe that underlying profit before tax and underlying reflect the underlying performance of the business acquired.
Similarly, diluted earnings per share measures provide additional useful information the standard requires all acquisition costs to be expensed in the Group for shareholders on underlying trends and performance.
Due to their nature, these costs have been excluded are used for internal performance analysis.
Underlying profit is not from underlying profit as they do not reflect the underlying performance defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other of the Group.
It is not intended to be a substitute IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards.
for, or superior to IFRS measurements of profit.
The interpretation requires the fair value of customer loyalty awards to be measured as a separate component of a sales transaction.
The The adjustments made to reported profit before tax are: underlying profit measure removes this fair value allocation to present underlying business performance, and to reflect the performance of IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements.
the operating segments as measured by management.
Under IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Group applies hedge accounting to its various hedge relationships when allowed under the rules of IAS 39 IAS 36 Impairment of Intangibles impairment of goodwill arising on and when practical to do so.
Sometimes the Group is unable to apply acquisitions.
The remaining carrying value of goodwill relating to Japan hedge accounting to the arrangements but continues to enter into was not fully recoverable and was fully impaired during the year.
The these arrangements as they provide certainty or active management resulting non-cash charge does not reflect the underlying performance of the exchange rates and interest rates applicable to the Group.
The Group believes these arrangements remain effective and Restructuring costs.
These relate to certain costs associated with the economically and commercially viable hedges despite the inability Groups restructuring activities and have been excluded from underlying to apply hedge accounting.
profit as they do not reflect the Groups underlying performance.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 105
