SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Summary report of the Directors Principal activity and business review Provision B.
6.2 of the new UK Corporate Governance Code requires that The principal activity of the Group is retailing and associated activities in the every three years there should be an externally led evaluation of the Boards UK, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Republic of Ireland, India, Japan, performance.
The Board usually carries out an external Board evaluation Malaysia, Poland, Slovakia, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey and the US.
The every three years, with internal evaluations in the intervening years.
The Group also provides retail banking and insurance services through its subsidiary, last external evaluation took place in 2007 and an externally facilitated Tesco Bank.
The summary of the Group financials is on pages 33 to 35. evaluation would normally have taken place this year.
Given the extensive Board and senior management changes taking place it was decided that Dividends it would be more appropriate to conduct an internal evaluation process and The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 10.09p per to carry out an externally facilitated process next year once these changes ordinary share, to be paid on 8 July 2011 to members on the Register at have had an opportunity to bed in.
the close of business on 3 May 2011.
Together with the interim dividend of 4.37p per ordinary share paid in December 2010, the total dividend for A full corporate governance statement is contained in the Annual Report the year will be 14.46p compared with 13.05p for the previous year, an and Financial Statements 2011. increase of 10.8%.
Summary report of the Directors on remuneration Directors Details of the current members of the Board are shown on page 36.
Remuneration policy Gareth Bullock and Stuart Chambers joined the Board on 3 July 2010.
It is the role of the Remuneration Committee to determine and recommend They will offer themselves for election and the other Directors will to the Board the remuneration policy for the Chairman and Executive offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on Directors.
Tesco has a long-standing policy of valuing talent and experience 1 July 2011. and seeks to provide incentives for delivering high, sustainable and profitable growth which leads to a strong increase in value for shareholders.
The Corporate governance remuneration strategy is tailored to reward the delivery of strong year-on-year Tesco PLC is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
earnings growth as well as sustained performance in the longer term.
The Board considers that Tesco PLC complied in all respects with the The Remuneration Committee has reviewed our executive remuneration Combined Code on Corporate Governance for the year ended 26 February arrangements in light of our strategy, our operational goals and the 2011 with the exception of provision A.
3.2, in respect of which the Company feedback from shareholders.
Whilst we believe that our remuneration was not in compliance for part of the year, and complied with the new arrangements are broadly competitive and operate well, the Committee UK Corporate Governance Code in all respects with the exception of has found opportunities to simplify and re-balance where appropriate.
6.2. details are contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011.
1.2 require that at least half of the Board, excluding Compliance the Chairman, should comprise Non-executive Directors determined by In carrying out its duties, the Remuneration Committee gives full the Board to be independent.
The Board recognises the importance of consideration to best practice.
The Committee was constituted and a balanced board with an appropriate level of independence.
The Board operated throughout the year in accordance with the principles outlined had one more Executive than Non-executive Directors excluding the in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority derived from the Chairman between July 2010 and the end of the financial year.
Following Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Remuneration report Sir Terry Leahys retirement and the appointment of Philip Clarke as has been drawn up in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate his successor as CEO in March 2011, there is now an equal number of Governance, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies Executive and independent Non-executive Directors and the Board is and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Financial again balanced and compliant with this provision.
The Remuneration Report also complies with the disclosures required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
A summary of Directors emoluments and interests is set out on pages 31 and 32.
The full Remuneration Report is provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011.
30 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
