FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED For all other non-financial assets including intangible assets and property, The Group as a lessor plant and equipment the Group performs impairment testing where there Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as are indicators of impairment.
If such an indicator exists, the recoverable receivables at the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment in the lease.
are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating The Group as a lessee unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the Group Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of reduction of the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no charged to the Group Income Statement.
impairment loss had been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Group Income immediately as a credit to the Group Income Statement.
Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Investment property Sale and leaseback Investment property is property held to earn rental income and or for A sale and leaseback transaction is one where the Group sells an asset and capital appreciation rather than for the purpose of Group operating immediately reacquires the use of that asset by entering into a lease with activities.
Investment property assets are carried at cost less accumulated the buyer.
The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
The depreciation upon the substance of the transaction by applying the lease classification policies for investment property are consistent with those described for principles described above and whether or not the sale was made at the owner-occupied property.
Other investments For sale and finance leasebacks, any profit from the sale is deferred Other investments in the Group Balance Sheet comprise loan receivables and amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating leasebacks, and available-for-sale financial assets.
generally the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss from the sale is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Loan receivables are recognised at amortised cost and available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
Post-employment and similar obligations The Group accounts for pensions and other post-employment benefits Refer to the financial instruments accounting policy for further detail.
principally private healthcare under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Inventories For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present Inventories comprise goods held for resale and properties held for, value using the projected unit credit method whilst plan assets are or in the course of, development and are valued at the lower of cost recorded at fair value.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are and fair value less costs to sell using the weighted average cost basis.
recognised separately in the Group Income Statement: service costs are spread systematically over the expected service lives of employees and Short-term investments financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial Short-term investments in the Group Balance Sheet consist of deposits gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Group Statement of with money market funds.
Cash and cash equivalents Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense Cash and cash equivalents in the Group Balance Sheet consist of cash at as they fall due.
bank, in hand and demand deposits with banks together with short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Share-based payments Employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form Non-current assets held for sale of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale in exchange for shares, rights over shares equity-settled transactions or if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than in exchange for cash.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale date using the Black-Scholes model.
The resulting cost is charged to the and it should be expected to be completed within one year from the date Group Income Statement over the vesting period.
The value of the charge of classification.
is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are Taxation measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The tax expense included in the Group Income Statement consists of current and deferred tax.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
102 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
