FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED materially from reported loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties The effective element of any gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative include the economic environment, notably interest rates and their instrument is recognised directly in equity.
effect on customer spending, the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and recognised in the Group Income Financial liabilities and equity instruments Statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to transaction affects the Group Income Statement.
The classification of the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity the effective portion when recognised in the Group Income Statement instrument is any contract that gives a residual interest in the assets of is the same as the classification of the hedged transaction.
Any element the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
of the remeasurement of the derivative instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge is recognised immediately in the Group Interest-bearing borrowings Income Statement within finance income or costs.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, Derivative instruments qualifying for cash flow hedging are principally interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any forward foreign exchange transactions and interest rate swaps.
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Group Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires interest basis.
or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the Trade payables hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in the Group Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Statement of Changes in Equity until the forecasted transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the Group Income Statement.
If a Equity instruments forecasted hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds cumulative gain or loss recognised in the Group Statement of Changes received, net of direct issue costs.
in Equity is reclassified to the Group Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Net investment hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity risks arising from when they hedge the Groups net investment in an overseas operation.
operating, financing and investing activities.
The Group does not hold The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from remeasuring or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes, however, the derivative instrument is recognised directly in the Group Statement of if derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted Changes in Equity.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in for as such.
Gains and losses accumulated in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity are included in the Group Income Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by reference to market values for similar financial instruments, by Derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges are principally discounted cash flows, or by the use of option valuation models.
Where forward foreign exchange transactions.
derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on remeasurement are immediately recognised in the Group Income Treatment of agreements to acquire non-controlling interests Statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition The Group has entered into a number of agreements to purchase of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge the remaining shares of subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
relationship and the item being hedged.
Under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the net present value of In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to the expected future payments are shown as a financial liability.
At the end document from inception the relationship between the item being of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to recognised in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs.
document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between Where the liability is in a currency other than Pounds Sterling, the liability the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the has been designated as a net investment hedge.
Any change in the value hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness of the liability resulting from changes in exchange rates is recognised testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge directly in equity.
Provisions Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive one year from the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and where Fair value hedging a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the Group believes a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that that the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligations exceed the are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group economic benefits expected to be received under the lease.
Where Income Statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the material, these leases are discounted to their present value.
Provisions hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
for dilapidation costs are recognised on a lease by lease basis.
Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge accounting Other recent accounting developments are principally interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations became effective for the first time for the financial year beginning 28 February Cash flow hedging 2010 but either have no material impact on the result or net assets of Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when the Group or are not applicable.
they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
104 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
