BUSINESS REVIEW Heading General information Principal activity, business review and future developments The Companys shareholders The Company has been notified as at principal activity of the Group is retailing and associated activities in the the date of this report that Blackrock, Inc. owns 5.48%, Legal & General UK, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Republic of Ireland, India, Investment Management Limited owns 3.99% and Berkshire Hathaway Japan, Malaysia, Poland, Slovakia, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey and Inc. owns 3.02% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Group also provides retail banking and insurance services Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association through its subsidiary, Tesco Bank.
may only be amended by special resolution at a General Meeting of theshareholders.
Group results Group revenue excluding VAT rose by 4 billion to 60.9 billion, representing an increase of 7.1%.
Group profit before Directors and their interests The Directors who served during tax increased by 359 million to 3,535 million.
Profit for the year was the year were: Charles Allen CBE: Richard Brasher: Gareth Bullock: 2,671 million, of which 2,655 million was attributable to equity Patrick Cescau: Stuart Chambers: Philip Clarke: Karen Cook: Rodney holders of the parentcompany.
Chase CBE: Harald Einsmann: Ken Hanna: Andrew Higginson: Ken Dividends The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend Hydon: SirTerry Leahy: Tim Mason: Laurie McIlwee: Lucy Neville-Rolfe of 10.09p per ordinary share, to be paid on 8 July 2011 to members on CMG: David Potts: David Reid: and Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker.
the Register at the close of business on 3 May 2011.
Together with the The biographical details of the present Directors are set out on pages interim dividend of 4.37p per ordinary share paid in December 2010, 60 and 61 of this Annual Report.
All our Directors will be seeking the total dividend for the year will be 14.46p compared with 13.05p for re-election at the 2011 AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate the previous year, an increase of 10.8%.
The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares of Fixed assets Capital expenditure excluding business combinations amounted to 3.7 billion compared with 3.1 billion the previous year.
Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors share options, are contained in the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 74 to 91.
In the Directors opinion, the properties of the Group have an open market value well in excess of the book value of 26 billion which has At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material been included in these financial statements.
interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its Share capital and control of the Company Details of the Companys subsidiaries.
A qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined share capital, including changes during the year in the issued share in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 is in force for the benefit capital and details of the rights attaching to the Companys ordinary of each of the Directors and the Company Secretary who is also a shares, are set out in note 29 on page 140.
Details of shares held by the Director of certain subsidiaries of the Company in respect of liabilities Companys Employee Benefit Trusts are shown in note 27 on page 135. incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
In No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights with regards to respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified, control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights.
the Company maintained a directors and officers liability insurance The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2010 AGM to policy throughout the financial year.
purchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum of Employment policies The Group depends on the skills and approximately 10% of its issued share capital.
No shares were commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
purchased under that authority during the financial year and the Ongoing training programmes seek to ensure that employees Company is seeking to renew the authority at the forthcoming AGM understand the Groups customer service objectives and strive to within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
The Groups selection, training, development and Shares held by the Companys Employee Share Incentive Plan Trust, promotion policies ensure equal opportunities for all employees regardless of factors such as gender, marital status, race, age, sexual International Employee Benefit Trust and Tesco Ireland Share Bonus Scheme Trust rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no preference and orientation, colour, creed, ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability or trade union affiliation.
All decisions are based on special rights.
Voting rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the shares held in these trusts rests with the trustees, who merit.
Internal communications are designed to ensure that employees are well informed about the business of the Group.
Employees are may take account of any recommendation from the Company.
Voting rights are not exercisable by the employees on whose behalf the shares encouraged to become involved in the financial performance of the Group through a variety of schemes, principally the Tesco employee are held in trust.
profit-sharing scheme Shares in Success, the savings-related share The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would option scheme Save As You Earn and the partnership share plan take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the Buy As You Earn.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
58 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Political and charitable donations Cash donations to charities Events after the Balance Sheet date There were no material events amounted to 15,613,319 2010 31,221,573.
Total contributions after the Balance Sheet date.
to community projects including cash, cause-related marketing, Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP gifts-in-kind, staff time and management costs amounted to as auditors of the Company and the Group will be proposed at the 64,254,910 2010 61,592,464.
There were no political donations 2011 AGM.
During the year, the Group made contributions of 55,085 2010 49,365 in the form of sponsorship for political Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditors events: Conservative Party 8,491: Labour Party 13,506: Liberal Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date Democrat Party 7,637: Plaid Cymru 1,640: Scottish National Party of this Annual Report and Financial Statements have each confirmed 4,700: Waste Watch 1,000: trade unions 18,111. that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Supplier payment policy Tesco PLC is a signatory to the Prompt Groups auditors are unaware, and each of the Directors has taken all Payment Code in the UK.
More information about the Code can be the steps he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself found at www.
Payment terms and herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that conditions are agreed with suppliers in advance and the Group pays the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation its creditors in accordance with those terms.
Payment terms vary is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions according to the type of product and territory in which the suppliers of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. operate.
Tesco PLC is a holding company and therefore has no trade creditors on its Balance Sheet.
Compliance with the Groceries Supply Chain Practices Market Investigation Order 2009 and the Groceries Supply Code of Practice Code The Code came into force in the UK on 4 February 2010 and places obligations on grocery retailers with a turnover greater than 1 billion to build a compliance programme, which includes training staff and providing information to the OFT as requested.
In addition, the Code sets out a number of provisions which relate to different aspects of the retailer supplier relationship.
We are committed to treating our suppliers fairly and work in collaboration with them wherever possible.
It is in our nature to treat compliance with the Code very seriously.
Prior to the introduction of the Code, Tesco took a number of steps to ensure that it was ready to comply.
We have in place a compliance training programme for our buying teams and a comprehensive training course is provided for all relevant new starters.
Annual refresher training is provided via a bespoke e-learning programme.
We have appointed a Code Compliance Officer CCO supported by a small team including an auditor.
We have developed an audit plan and our approach enables us to identify any gaps in our processes so they can be quickly fixed.
All alleged breaches of the Code raised by suppliers have been resolved internally.
We had an instance of a supplier initiating the Dispute Resolution Procedure set out in the Code.
This matter was escalated within the relevant commercial category and resolved.
The CCO submits reports to the Audit Committee which considers that it retains effective oversight of our compliance with the Code.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
As with all business forecasts, the Directors statement cannot guarantee that the going concern basis will remain appropriate given the inherent uncertainty about future events.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 59
