BUSINESS REVIEW Homeplus Building brands received South Koreas Most Admired Company award in October 2010 To be a creator of highly valued brands Community Champions programme, Get Healthy with Whats the benefit to both our stakeholders and Tesco Lotus in Thailand and the UK Tesco Great School Run, our Company of building brands?
were known to be a good neighbour.
By benefiting local By building strong brands through our own products, we offer communities, our brand has taken on new meaning among customers increased value, choice and quality.
Customers trust stakeholders that of a responsible retailer.
They are loyal to our brands because they know By developing a brand reputation for offering great value what to expect from them and what they stand for.
With wines, for example, the Finest logo helps customers to pick out a good and service to customers and being a responsible member of the community, we can attract great people to work for us.
quality option without having to be a connoisseur.
As a responsible and flexible employer with a track record of Strong Product and Pillar brands give us a key point of developing talent within the business, Tesco is also seen as differentiation from our competitors and enable us to continue a great place to build a career.
to meet the changing needs of our customers.
Once customers The increased emotional and functional loyalty from understand the values that our brands stand for, they are more customers, staff and communities generated by our brand likely to trust in our ability to diversify into new service areas.
In financial services, for example, with Tesco Bank weve brought building has contributed to Tesco becoming a profitable, sustainable growth opportunity for shareholders to invest in.
straightforward and good-quality banking solutions based on the needs of our customers to a market characterised by Investment provides us with further opportunities to build and develop our brands across the Group, in turn allowing complexity and poor customer service.
us to diversify to the benefit of customers, staff, communities Wherever we operate we support local communities, their and shareholders.
Through initiatives such as our A brand is a promise, a set of fundamental principles that define a product or business.
It is an intangible representation of what a company stands for in the minds of its customers and other stakeholders.
Retail brands Phone Shop Product brands Pillar brands TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 27
