Operating margin is based upon revenue excluding VAT.
2 The Group adopted IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes and the amendments to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment from 24 February 2008.
Periods before this date have not been restated.
3 Consists of the net result of the Taiwanese business which was sold during 2007.
4 Underlying profit excludes the impact of non-cash elements of IAS 17, 19, 32 and 39 principally the impact of annual uplifts in rents and rent free period, pension cost, and the marking to market of financial instruments : the amortisation charge on intangible assets arising on acquisition, acquisition costs and the non-cash impact of IFRIC 13.
It also exclude costs relating to restructuring US and Japan, closure costs, Vin Plus and the impairment of goodwill in Japan.
For further details of this measure, see page 105.
5 Results have been restated to reflect the US and Tesco Bank as separate segments.
6 Market capitalisation plus net debt.
7 Basic and diluted earnings per share are on a continuing operations basis.
8 Dividend per share relating to the interim and proposed final dividend.
9 Profit before tax divided by average shareholders funds.
10 The numerator is profit before interest, less tax.
The denominator is the calculated average of net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for sale.
11 Store sizes exclude lobby and restaurant areas.
12 Average store size excludes Express, One Stop and Dobbies stores.
13 Based on average number of full-time equivalent employees in the UK, revenue exclusive of VAT and operating profit.
14 Based on weighted average sales area and average weekly sales, excluding Dobbies stores.
15 Excludes one-off gain from Pensions A-Day.
With this one-off gain, ROCE was 13.6%.
16 Using a normalised tax rate before start-up costs in the US and Tesco Direct and excluding the impact of foreign exchange in equity and our acquisition of a majority share of Dobbies.
17 Excluding start-up costs in the US and Tesco Direct and adjusting average number of full-time equivalent employees in the UK to exclude US and Tesco Direct employees profit per employee would be 11,317.
18 Excluding acquisition of Tesco Bank and Homever, India start-up costs, and after adjusting for assets held for sale.
Calculated on a 52-week basis, ROCE for 2009 is 12.8%.
19 Restated to include Dobbies stores.
20 Restated to include Dobbies stores and account for a space restatement of 109,000 sq ft driven by a comprehensive remeasurement of One Stop stores.
146 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
