Overview Business review Governance Financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, There are no investments classified as held for trading.
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax expense is recognised in the Group Income Statement except For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the Group Statement in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of Other Comprehensive Income or directly in the Group Statement of of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or Changes in Equity, in which case it is recognised in the Group Statement loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net result for the of Other Comprehensive Income or directly in the Group Statement of period.
Interest calculated using the effective interest rate method is Changes in Equity, respectively.
recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Dividends on an available-forsale equity instrument are recognised in the Group Income Statement Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, when the entitys right to receive payment is established.
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts Loans and advances to customers and banks used for taxation purposes.
Loans and advances are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or include amounts due from customers and amounts due from banks.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged The Group has no intention of trading these loans and advances and or credited in the Group Income Statement, except when it relates to consequently they are not classified as held for trading or designated items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive as fair value through profit and loss.
Loans and advances are initially income, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity, recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
Subsequent or other comprehensive income, respectively.
to initial recognition, these assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
Income from these Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that financial assets is calculated on an effective yield basis and is recognised taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary in the Group Income Statement.
Impairment of loans and advances to customers and banks The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that its loans and advances to determine whether there is any indication that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
An impairment loss has to be recovered.
been incurred if there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected the amount or Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when timing of future cash flows from the asset.
there is a legally enforceable right to set-off current taxation assets against current taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as loans and advances has been Foreign currencies incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken recognition.
Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets to the Group Income Statement.
that are individually significant and collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
In making collective assessments of impairment, The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk Pounds Sterling.
Since the majority of consolidated companies operate characteristics.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are estimated on as independent entities within their local economic environment, their the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for respective local currency is the functional currency.
Therefore, assets and assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Historical loss experience is liabilities of overseas subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are adjusted, on the basis of current observable data, to reflect the effects translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Group Balance of current conditions not affecting the period of historical experience.
Sheet: profits and losses are translated at average exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods.
Exchange differences arising are recognised Impairment losses are recognised in the Group Income Statement and in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and are included in the the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised is reduced by establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If in as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign recognised, the previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and allowance.
Once an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial translated at the closing rate.
asset or group of financial assets, interest income is recognised on the carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future Financial instruments cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual Loan impairment provisions are established on a portfolio basis taking provisions of the instrument.
into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant Trade receivables factors in establishing the provisions are the expected loss rates and the Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at related average life.
The portfolios include credit card receivables and fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest other personal advances.
The future credit quality of these portfolios rate method, less provision for impairment.
is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ Investments Investments are recognised at trade date.
Investments are classified as either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are recognised at fair value.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 103
