OUR VISION TO BE THE MOST HIGHLY VALUED BY: The customers we serve Our core purpose is to create value for customers to earn their lifetime loyalty.
This objective sits right at the heart of our business as one part of our Values No one tries harder for customers.
We know that we are already valued by our customers across our markets.
In the UK, for example, we have the most loyal customer base of the major grocery retailers and in South Korea, Homeplus was awarded South Koreas Most Admired Company award in October 2010.
The communities in which we operate For Tesco to be considered a force for good, we must be a good neighbour and a responsible member of society.
This is why Community is part of our balanced scorecard approach to running our business and why each market has its own Community Plan, with promises relating to the environment, communities, responsible sourcing, healthy living and jobs and careers.
Our loyal and committed staff We know that if we look after our staff, they will look after our customers.
Work can be a large part of our lives so our people deserve an employer who cares.
Thats why one of our Values is Treat people how we like to be treated.
We are committed to providing opportunities for our people to get on and turn their jobs into careers, and across all of our markets we offer a wide range of competitive benefits.
In the US, for example, we pay at least 75% of medical, dental, prescription and vision costs.
69% of employees across the Group who completed our annual staff survey said that they find their work interesting.
69% of employees across the Group who completed our annual staff survey said that they find their work interesting Our shareholders As the owners of the business, its crucial that our shareholders value Tesco highly.
Shareholders want a good return on their investment and thats what we will continue to deliver for them.
We have over 200,000 shareholders, including a large number of pension funds.
We offer sustainable, profitable growth from a combination of a strong core UK business and exposure to rapidly growing emerging markets.
Over the past decade our total shareholder return TSR has outperformed the FTSE 100 by 53.2% and weve delivered dividend growth for the past 27 years the longest record of consecutive increase by any FTSE 100 company.
To learn more about our vision and strategy: http: ar2011.
com businessreview ourstrategy 7 OUR VISION Tesco Clubcard All retailing is local.
And Clubcard is one of the ways in which we can be responsive to local customer needs.
In addition to rewarding customers for their loyalty, Clubcard provides us with insight from millions of customer transactions.
From this we can develop tailored ranges, promotions and marketing by country or region in fact right down to the individual customer via their Clubcard mailing.
The knowledge and expertise of operating Clubcard was developed in the UK but has now been rolled out to a further 11 countries across the Group, with more members in Asia and Europe than at home in the UK.
F&F Weve been successful at exporting a number of our brands internationally, tailoring them to local trends, needs and price ranges.
F&F is a good example of how one of our brands has spread globally and won locally.
Were bringing the benefits of our Group skill and scale to our buying and sourcing operations, helping to reduce costs and improve quality.
In Central Europe for example, 95% of our clothing supplier base is the same as Ireland and the UK, even though to win in each market, we adapt our range to local trends, tastes and climates.
F&F is now in ten of our markets and is the market-leading clothing brand in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia.
We also opened our first stand-alone F&F store in Prague this year.
World-class training for national talent We know that to be a successful international retailer we need to combine deep local knowledge with global experience this is why all of our international management teams are a mixture of nationals and people from our UK business.
In addition, the experience of working internationally helps us attract, retain and develop our people over a fifth of our directors are currently working outside their home country.
Our Academy supports the development of both operational expertise and leadership excellence.
Management courses are developed based on global best practice and then used to train teams in each local market.
Our first dedicated Academy centre will open in Seoul serving Asia in July.
com businessreview ourstrategy 9 OUR VISION Online ne r re etailing tailing Customers expect to be able to shop where and when they want as shopping habits have changed over the years weve changed too.
As weve grown from a UK supermarket chain towards becoming an international multi-channel retailer weve continued to innovate every step of the way.
We were viewed as pioneers when we first launched an online grocery business 11 years ago.
Its now the largest most profitable business of its kind in the world.
Using their smartphones, our customers can now scan the barcode of grocery items, order online and have their shopping delivered to their home.
A leader in green retailing As a global business we know that we can make a real difference in tackling climate change cutting our own emissions, working with suppliers and helping customers to cut their carbon footprint.
We also understand that successful businesses need to be green to grow.
Our 2050 target to be a zero-carbon business will be achieved through improved efficiency and by generating our energy from renewable sources.
Were making good progress over the past year we have reduced emissions from our baseline portfolio of buildings by 7.7%.
We have pledged to help customers cut their carbon footprints by 50% by 2020.
We have worked with the Carbon Trust and other stakeholders to develop a universal carbon footprint label which describes the emissions associated with each product.
Since January 2008, we have carbon labelled more than 500 everyday products in the UK and have started to label products in South Korea, helping our customers to make greener choices.
500 Products carbon labelled since 2008 To learn more about our vision and strategy: http: ar2011.
com businessreview ourstrategy 11 OUR VISION UK: an outstanding business We have more than doubled sales and profit in our UK business over the last decade, cementing our position as clear market leader.
Yet there remain significant opportunities for further growth.
The UK has the lowest grocery retail space per capita of any country in the EU: only 54% of shoppers are able to reach a Tesco Extra within 15 minutes and we have only a small share of the convenience sector.
Beyond grocery weve developed a strong position in many other categories such as clothing, electricals and entertainment.
But with a market share of around 4% in the non-food sector there is still plenty more to come.
International growth More than two-thirds of our profit growth now comes from markets outside the UK.
We opened our first international Tesco store in 1995: today were in 13 markets across Europe, Asia and North America.
65% of our floorspace is now outside the UK, and our businesses in Asia and Europe are collectively the same size as the whole of Tesco was 11 years ago.
Weve built successful, diverse businesses across the world, yet the journey is only just beginning.
Weve already developed market-leading, highly profitable businesses in a number of countries.
In South Korea, our largest international business, Homeplus, already generates 5 billion revenue.
Yet, if Homeplus were to grow to have the same proportion of the total retail market that Tesco has achieved in the UK, the business would be more than three times as large as it is today.
During our first decade of international expansion weve proved that we are able to develop profitable and market-leading businesses in many of our markets.
Over the next decade, in addition to further expanding our established overseas businesses, we are focused on delivering growth in three of the worlds largest economies: China, India and the United States, which between them offer decades of future growth.
New services Customers trust Tesco and appreciate that we provide value, simplicity and good service.
This is our approach with everything we sell and is the key to our success in following the customer into new areas such as banking and telecoms.
Tesco Bank in the UK now has over 6.5 million customer accounts and generates annual profits of 264 million.
Weve made particularly good progress in credit cards.
In February, one in eight of all MasterCard and Visa credit card transactions in the UK were made on a Tesco credit card.
As we broaden our offer with mortgages launching this year we aim to become the best choice for all our customers banking needs.
We have also established a successful Telecoms business.
Tesco Mobile now has over 2.5 million customers.
By focusing on value and good service and through our 194 Phone Shops we are changing the way that customers buy phones, services and accessories.
