BUSINESS REVIEW 44.6bn Growing the UK core UK sales To grow the UK core 2.5bn Trading profit In our market-leading UK business, we have delivered a solid product development, leading to the introduction of over 2,000 performance by keeping our focus on the customer, providing new and improved food products.
them with great value, choice and service.
The increasing importance of quality for customers is also The UK economy is in recovery but consumers have been under supported by the strong performance of our Finest range, pressure this year due to a combination of high petrol prices, which has outpaced the growth of other areas of our food food and utility inflation and, more recently, the VAT increase.
range, with a 6.3% increase in sales this year.
As a result, were experiencing a period of unusually subdued Many of our customers want to buy locally sourced products industry growth.
Excluding petrol, like-for-like growth in the to support their local communities.
We have five dedicated industry has been significantly lower than last year.
regional buying offices throughout the UK and in 2010 11 Against this backdrop, our UK business has delivered a solid we increased sales of local products to 1 billion, up from performance.
Total UK sales were 44.6 billion, growing by 850 million in 2009 10.
5.5%, which was ahead of the market.
UK trading profit increased by 3.8% or by 6.4% before the effects of our sale and leaseback Price programme: principally the additional rents incurred.
We remain focused on delivering the best value to all customers.
The launch of Essential Savings in May was an Clubcard investment in lower prices on the everyday products which Clubcard is our unique customer loyalty programme our way our customers buy.
We have introduced more multi-buys of saying thank you to our customers.
It is now more popular into the promotion programme to help customers save than ever before, with active membership of over 15 million money.
Together these initiatives have helped us to maintain customers, compared to 13 million at the start of 2008 9. our leading position in a highly competitive market and to encourage customers to switch to Tesco throughout the year.
Clubcard continues to be a significant driver of growth for our business and ensures that our customer base continues to Availability demonstrate considerably higher levels of loyalty than our competitors.
For most of 2010, Clubcard was the number one We have maintained high levels of availability this year reason behind customers switching to us for their weekly shop.
through a number of programmes, from better promotional forecasting through to improved processes for monitoring Stores availability in our stores.
Our customers are benefiting from this work and have noticed the improvements customer New space has continued to drive sales growth.
Weve opened satisfaction with availability is at a record high up 7% from over 200 new stores in 2010 11 and have a strong opening last year and 13% from the year before.
programme for the coming year.
We have also refreshed or extended over 400 stores this year, Service receiving a great response from customers.
For example, we We work continually to improve service for our customers.
have added 7,000 sq ft to Wembley Extra, expanding our World We have trained over 80,000 staff this year in Every Little Helps Foods offer to meet better the needs of customers in the local skills for checkouts, supporting them to deliver helpful, friendly area and the store is outperforming by 16%.
We also know how important it is for our customers to be able to choose the checkout that is right for Range them, so we are working to create the ideal checkout Our customers tell us that quality is increasingly important to configuration in each of our stores based on the local them, it is not simply about finding the cheapest product.
We have stepped up our emphasis on quality, with accelerated 16 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 CLUBCARD Clubcard continues to play an important role in earning customers loyalty.
Weve continued to invest in Double Points, we have introduced the Big Clubcard Voucher Exchange and we have expanded our Partner Reward Scheme.
1 reason for customers switching to Tesco TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 17 THAILAND Tesco Lotus, our business in Thailand, is one of our most successful international businesses with strong profitability and the highest return on capital of all our overseas markets.
We now operate 782 stores with 11m sq ft of space, having added a further 119 stores in the year.
21% Sales in Thailand up 21% 18 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
