BUSINESS REVIEW 11.0bn To be an outstanding international retailer Asia sales To be an outstanding 10.6bn Europe sales international retailer in stores and online Most of our markets have seen steady economic improvement Europe over the past year and in some cases particularly in Asia Our operations in Europe have delivered record results and sharp improvement.
Countries hardest hit in the downturn in strong growth in sales, profits and margins.
Recovering particular Hungary, Ireland and the United States have been economies generally helped but key to this performance was slower to recover, although even there we are now seeing signs the striking improvement in the competitiveness of our local of improvement.
businesses, which won increased market share rapidly.
A particularly encouraging feature of our performance in Asia We have invested for customers through lower prices, sharper and Europe has been excellent market share growth, with many promotions and Clubcard, funded by strong productivity and of our businesses seeing strong growth in both customer substantial early benefits of our pan-European sourcing.
The numbers and like-for-like sales.
resulting strong sales growth has driven an improvement in We have resumed a faster pace of new space opening now profitability and margins.
that economic conditions are generally improving.
We opened Sales growth varied across the region but all markets saw 6.5m sq ft of gross new space in 2010 11, compared with sharply improved like-for-like sales growth compared with 5.1m sq ft in 2009 10 and plan to open a further 8.4m sq ft 2009 10, with a good contribution also coming from new space.
With the improving economic outlook we are stepping up Asia the rate of new store opening.
Some 2.6m sq ft of new space was opened in the year, with a programme to add a further Our businesses in Asia have delivered another good 2.9m sq ft of new space across the region in 2011 12. performance leading to increases in sales and profits supported by improving like-for-like sales growth, a useful We have been delighted by customer reaction to the contribution from new stores and further benefits from our remodelling and conversion of some of our older hypermarkets acquisition in South Korea in 2008. to the Extra format.
Very strong sales improvements have been achieved in the stores with an average sales uplift of As economies in Asia recover, we are seeing improving sales 16% in the eight completed so far.
These refits are delivering trends.
Our performance was helped by favourable exchange particularly marked uplifts in fresh food categories, health rate movements but nevertheless profits grew by almost 18% & beauty, clothing and electricals.
at constant currency rates with excellent growth coming from South Korea and Thailand.
United States Our Asian markets offer an exciting long-term growth Customer feedback at Fresh & Easy remains excellent and opportunity and will be a key focus for our future international strong growth in customer numbers is driving steady sales expansion, both in our established markets and in China.
We have continued to invest through the downturn to ensure that we are in an even stronger position as the economic We expect losses to reduce sharply in the current year as strong recovery continues.
growth in like-for-like sales continues and improved store operating ratios start to deliver shop-door profitability.
We have This year we plan to open 5.1m sq ft of new selling area.
We a strong plan for the business to break-even towards the end have also continued to make good progress in developing of the 2012 13 financial year.
strong brands in our leading Asian businesses with further expansion of Clubcard and our retail services businesses.
TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 19
