BUSINESS REVIEW 10.3bn To be strong in everything we sell Group sales To be as strong in 8.8% Group sales growth everything we sell as we are in food Our general merchandise, clothing and electrical businesses customers get the right product for their individual needs, have continued to grow, despite the challenges of weak supporting a reduction in product returns.
Alongside our in-store demand in some of our important markets.
teams, we have a free electrical helpline for our customers, manned by fully trained engineers, and a dedicated Tech In the UK, high petrol prices and increases in VAT have had a Support website.
significant impact on discretionary consumer spending.
Many high street retailers have suffered from declining sales and have Developing our multi-channel capability issued profit warnings.
Tesco has fared better and maintained Our multi-channel approach makes it easy for our customers market share but we havent been spared the impact of to shop in a way that suits them online, in-store or from subdued demand.
In the UK, general merchandise, clothing catalogues.
Customers can browse in a catalogue, order online and electricals sales grew by 0.4% to 5.3 billion.
General and then collect in-store or they can order in-store and have the merchandise sales growth was affected by a smaller component goods delivered to their home.
This year, over 40% of Tesco of extension selling space in this years new space programme, Direct electrical purchases have been made online and picked with extensions providing just 10% of new space.
up in-store through our Click and Collect service.
In our international markets the picture varies considerably by Europe country.
Most of our markets in Europe and Asia saw strong growth in general merchandise as the economic recovery took In Europe, general merchandise, clothing and electricals hold during the year, although a number of markets such as sales were strong, reflecting an overall improving consumer Ireland and Hungary remain challenging.
background and a strengthening offer in our stores.
Clothing in Central Europe had a successful year with a 9% UK year-on-year growth in total sales.
We are now the clothing Improving the performance of general merchandise in the UK market leader in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia.
is one of our key priorities.
Our aim is to offer our customers the Building on the success of the F&F brand, we have introduced same great quality, price and range in our general merchandise our F&F Blue and F&F Basics sub-brands to provide our customers offer as they would find with their Tesco grocery shop.
The focus with a greater range to choose from.
Our first stand-alone F&F is on delivering in three key areas with the aim of improving the store also opened successfully in Prague last year, highlighting general merchandise shopping trip for our customers: the appeal of the brand in the Czech Republic.
Investing in making the ranges more aspirational Asia In electricals, we were the first UK supermarket to stock the Apple iPad and the Amazon Kindle two of the most soughtOur F&F clothing brand launched in South Korea and Thailand after technology products on the market.
Keeping in tune this year and the early response from customers has been with changes in technology and responding quickly to offer excellent a very good example of the skill and scale of the our customers the latest electrical innovations is central to our Tesco Group being applied across our global network.
strategy and to building our reputation as a leading retailer Last year we opened our first three Sports Multishops in in everything we sell.
Homeplus stores in South Korea.
These innovative sports zones Enhancing the shopping experience with are designed to meet growing customer needs for sporting specialist advice goods, in a one-stop shopping environment.
Sports Multishop In over 200 of our largest stores, we have Tesco Tech Support has increased sales of sporting goods in these stores by over teams, made up of staff specifically trained to help customers 60% with high customer penetration.
with technical queries on electrical items from TVs to cameras and satellite navigation systems.
The additional advice helps 20 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 CLOTHING Clothing is a key element of our customer offer in Central Europe and we have had another pleasing year with 9% sales growth.
We are now clothing market leader in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia.
9% Clothing sales growth in Central Europe TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 21 TESCO TELECOMS We now have 194 Phone Shops in stores across the UK and this year, we have begun to open Phone Shops in our refreshed Extra stores in Central Europe.
Our Phone Shops provide our customers with support and advice so that they can choose the best option for them.
194 Phone Shops in the UK 22 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
