BUSINESS REVIEW 4.0bn Growing retail services Retail services sales To grow retail services 15% Online business sales growth in all our markets In July 2008 when we announced our intention to take full has also resumed growth, having plateaued before the change ownership of Tesco Bank, we set a target to grow the of control, despite the inevitable challenges of migration.
profitability of our retail services businesses from just under Customer account numbers grew well in active credit cards by 400 million in 2007 8 to 1 billion.
11%, personal loans by 17% and motor insurance by 8%.
Our This year, we have made creditable progress in moving towards Fixed Rate Saver product significantly exceeded expectations this target.
We have attracted new customers, grown sales and and we ended the year with a balance of 397 million, 40% profit and continued to invest particularly in infrastructure higher than planned and we now have one, two and three-year to equip the business for further growth.
The range of products available for customers will be broadened further this year with the We want all of our customers, across all of our markets, to have planned launch of mortgages.
access to our financial, telecoms and online services.
We can do this by applying Group skill and scale and building on the tesco.
com knowledge which we have acquired from our retail services experience in the UK, Ireland and South Korea.
Our online businesses, including online grocery and Tesco Direct, had another strong year.
Taking into account our In 2010 11, total retail services sales were 4.0 billion, up 12% operations in South Korea and Ireland, total sales grew by 15%.
on 2009 10 and trading profit grew to 583 million.
Our UK operations continued to grow well, with double-digit growth in grocery and a further 30% increase at Tesco Direct.
Tesco Bank Despite a challenging year in the wider banking sector, and Tesco Telecoms as it completes its transition to full separation from The Royal Our Telecoms business grew well during the year, maintaining Bank of Scotland RBS, Tesco Bank continues to perform well.
strong market share, driven primarily by the growth of Tesco The business has made good progress with its systems Mobile.
In 2010 Tesco Mobile was one of the fastest growing re-platforming, which will complete as planned in 2011.
We UK mobile networks, growing its customer base by 24% to over opened our new banking and insurance service centres in 2.5 million.
Glasgow and Newcastle in October 2010.
All new motor and Our Tesco Mobile joint ventures with O2 in Ireland and Slovakia home insurance business, including renewal policies sold since are performing well.
Both businesses are growing strongly and then have, as planned, been written on new systems.
We also moved into profit for the first time this year.
launched successfully our first new product on our own banking platforms the Fixed Rate Saver last autumn.
This has been dunnhumby followed by our recent innovative retail bond.
Both of these initiatives exceeded plan and serve to diversify our funding dunnhumby has had a very strong year, increasing sales and base and increase the proportion of long-term funding profits by over 30% with excellent growth in the UK supplier available to the Bank.
business and from its overseas joint ventures with retailers.
The Bank has made progress in key areas with savings Following the acquisition of the final 10% of the business in strongly up, good growth in the loan book with improved the first half of the year, dunnhumby is now a wholly owned margins and an excellent year in credit cards, with the subsidiary of Tesco.
The car insurance book Retail services profit comprises profit from Telecoms, tesco.
com, dunnhumby and Tesco Bank, including UK store ATM income.
TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 23
