FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Parent Company financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation Current asset investments The Company financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP Current asset investments relate to money market deposits which are using the historical cost convention modified for the revaluation of stated at cost.
All income from these investments is included in the certain financial instruments, in accordance with applicable accounting Parent Company Profit and Loss Account as interest receivable and standards and the Companies Act 2006. similar income.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures prior financial year 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010.
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies is set out below.
Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are Exemptions translated into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rates prevailing at the The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under balance sheet date of the financial year.
Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a Profit and Loss Account for the Company alone.
Share-based payments Employees of the Company receive part of their remuneration in the The Company has taken advantage of the FRS 29 Financial form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render Instruments: Disclosures exemption and not provided derivative services in exchange for shares, rights over shares equity-settled financial instrument disclosures of the Company alone.
transactions or in exchange for cash.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 grant date using the Black-Scholes model.
In accordance with FRS 20 Cash Flow Statement.
The cash flows of the Company are included Share-Based Payment the resulting cost is charged to the Parent in the Tesco PLC Group financial statements.
Company Profit and Loss Account over the vesting period.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosure from disclosing related party transactions with entities that Where the Company awards options to employees of subsidiary entities, are part of the Tesco PLC Group.
this is treated as a capital contribution.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosure Financial instruments Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted, following new Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Parent amendments to FRS interpretations.
These have not had a significant Companys Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the impact on the results or net assets of the Company: contractual provisions of the instrument.
Amendment to FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Presentation on Debtors Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, Debtors are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010. value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
Amendment to FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Presentation Presentation on Classification of Rights Issues, effective for annual Financial liabilities and equity instruments periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity Amendment to FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and instrument is any contract that gives a residual interest in the assets Measurement on Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual periods of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments beginning on or after 1 July 2009. issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Amendment to FRS 20 Share Based Payment, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at UITF 48 Abstract Accounting implications of the replacement of the value of the amount received, net of attributable transaction costs.
RPI with CPI, effective for annual periods beginning on or after Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated 1 January 2010. at amortised cost with any differences between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Parent Company Profit and Loss Account Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective, but not over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
expected to have a significant impact on the Company: Other creditors UITF Abstract 47 Extinguishing liabilities with equity instruments, Other creditors, except for intercompany creditors, are non interesteffective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010. bearing and stated at amortised cost.
Intercompany creditors are either interest-bearing or non interest-bearing depending on the type and Improvements to FRSs, effective for annual periods beginning on or duration of creditor relationship.
FRS 30 Heritage Assets, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 April 2010.
148 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
