Overview Business review Governance Financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The Group continues to receive insurance commission arising from the At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is recognised as sale of insurance policies sold under the Tesco brand through the legacy an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to arrangement with the Royal Bank of Scotland RBS.
This commission benefit from the business combinations synergies and to the lowest level income is variable and dependent upon the profitability of the underlying at which management monitors the goodwill.
Goodwill arising on the insurance policies.
acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within the carrying value of the investment.
Clubcard, loyalty and other initiatives The cost of Clubcard and loyalty initiatives is treated as a deduction On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable from sales and part of the fair value of the consideration received is amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss deferred and subsequently recognised over the period that the awards on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 29 February 2004 the date of The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to transition to IFRS was retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts the fair value to the customer and considers factors such as redemption subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written via Clubcard deals versus money-off-in-store and redemption rate.
off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been restated and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Computers for Schools, Sport for Schools and Club vouchers are issued by Tesco for redemption by participating schools clubs and are part of Intangible assets our overall Community Plan.
The cost of the redemption i. e meeting Acquired intangible assets the obligation attached to the vouchers is treated as a cost rather than Acquired intangible assets, such as software, pharmacy licences, customer a deduction from sales.
relationships, contracts and brands, are measured initially at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, at Rental income 2%-100% of cost per annum.
Rental income is recognised in the period in which it is earned, in accordance with the terms of the lease.
Internally-generated intangible assets Research and development expenditure Finance income Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Finance income, excluding income arising from financial services, is recognised in the period to which it relates using the effective interest Development expenditure incurred on an individual project is capitalised rate method.
only if all the criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met, principally: Dividend income Dividends are recognised when a legal entitlement to receive an asset is created that can be identified such as software or new payment arises.
processes : it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic Finance costs benefits: and Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Qualifying assets are those that the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Group Income Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, the cost Statement in finance costs, excluding those arising from financial services, is amortised over the projects estimated useful life, usually at 14%-25% in the period in which they occur.
For Tesco Bank, finance cost on financial of cost per annum.
liabilities is determined using the effective interest rate method and is recognised in cost of sales.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated Business combinations and goodwill depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
The Group accounts for all business combinations by applying the purchase method.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis to its residual value over its anticipated useful economic life.
On acquisition, the assets including intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of an acquired entity are measured at their fair value.
The following depreciation rates are applied for the Group: The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than 40 years unexpired at 2.5% of cost: The Group recognises intangible assets as part of business combinations leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are depreciated at fair value on the date of acquisition.
The determination of these fair by equal annual instalments over the unexpired period of the lease: and values is based upon managements judgement and includes assumptions on the timing and amount of future incremental cash flows generated plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles at rates by the assets acquired and the selection of an appropriate cost of capital.
The useful lives of intangible assets are estimated and amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, when shorter, over the term of Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of an the relevant lease.
acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets net liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate at the Impairment of non-financial assets date of acquisition.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the of the Groups share of the net assets net liabilities of the acquired entity recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to which the goodwill i. e a discount on acquisition, the difference is credited to the Group relates.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 101
