Overview Business review Governance Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so Tesco PLC is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Registration number 445790.
The address of the registered office is Tesco House, Delamare Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, EN8 9SL, UK.
associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011 prior Use of assumptions and estimates financial year 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010.
For the UK, the Republic The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires of Ireland and the US, the results are for the 52 weeks ended 26 February management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 2011 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010.
For all other the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, operations, the results are for the calender year ended 28 February 2011 income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are year ended 28 February 2010. based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from As described in the Report of the Directors, the main activity of the Group these estimates.
is that of retailing and retailing services.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing Basis of preparation basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in accordance with The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by the Critical estimates and assumptions that are applied in the preperation European Union, and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable of the consolidated financial statements include: to companies reporting under IFRS.
Depreciation and amortisation The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally The Group exercises judgement to determine useful lives and residual rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost values of intangibles, property, plant and equipment and investment basis, except for certain financial instruments, share-based payments, property.
The assets are depreciated down to their residual values over customer loyalty programmes and pensions that have been measured their estimated useful lives.
Impairment The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently i Impairment of goodwill to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy as set out below.
The recoverable Basis of consolidation amount of the cash-generating units has been determined based on value The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations the ultimate Parent Company Tesco PLC, all entities controlled by the are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of its interests in joint in margins.
Management estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that ventures and associates.
reflect the current market assessment of the time value of money and country specific risks.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring the accounting policies ii Impairment of assets used in line with those of the Group.
The Group has determined each store as a separate cash-generating unit.
Where there are indicators for impairment, the Group performs an Subsidiaries impairment test.
A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and financing policies are controlled, directly or indirectly, by Tesco PLC.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is calculated The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated from cash flow projections for five years using data from the Groups latest financial statements from the date that control commences until the internal forecasts.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations date that control ceases.
are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes in margins.
Management estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and reflect the current market assessment of the time value of money and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing country specific risks.
iii Impairment of loans and advances to customers Joint ventures and associates The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one receivables and carried at amortised cost.
A loan is impaired when there is or more other venturers under a contractual agreement.
objective evidence that events since the loan was granted have affected expected cash flows from the loan.
The impairment loss is the difference An associate is an undertaking, not being a subsidiary or joint venture, between the carrying value of the loan and the present value of estimated over which the Group has significant influence and can participate in the future cash flows at the loans original effective interest rate.
financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
The Groups loan impairment provisions are established on a portfolio The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included basis taking into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, in the Group Income Statement using the equity method of accounting.
credit scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Group Balance factors in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates.
These Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net portfolios include credit card receivables and other personal advances.
assets of the entity, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of The future credit quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties investments in joint ventures and associates include acquired goodwill.
that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from reported loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties include the economic If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or environment, notably interest rates and their effect on customer spending, exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 99
