FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Provisions IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations, restructuring, is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised pensions, customer redress and claims.
These provisions are estimates and standard requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
The difference between expectations and the actual future liability such, transactions with non-controlling interests with no change in will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
control will no longer result in recognition of goodwill in the Group Balance Sheet or gains and losses recognised in the Group Income The Group has a provision for potential customer redress.
The revised standard also specifies the accounting when the year, the FSA formally issued Policy Statement 10 12 PS 10 12, control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair which introduces new guidance in respect of PPI customer redress value and a gain or loss is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
and evidential provisions to the FSA Handbook with an implementation IAS 39 Amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement date of 1 December 2010.
We will continue to handle complaints is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The and redress customers in accordance with PS 10 12.
This will include amendment requires that inflation may only be hedged if changes ongoing analysis of historical claims experience in accordance with in inflation are a contractually specified portion of cash flows of a the guidance.
The amendment also permits an entity to designate purchased options as a hedging instrument in The calculation of this provision involves estimating a number of a hedge of a financial or non-financial item.
variables, principally the level of customer complaints which may be received and the level of any compensation which may be payable The Group has adopted all amendments published in Improvements to customers.
Uncertainty associated with these factors may result to IFRSs issued in April 2009.
The adoption of these amendments has in the ultimate liability being different from the reported provision.
not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions Insurance reserves and arrangements.
The Group recognises insurance commission arising from the sale of general insurance policies sold under the Tesco brand.
The level Revenue of commission is dependent upon the profitability of the underlying Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable insurance policies, which is in turn dependent on the level of reserves for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the held by the insurance trading partner to underwrite the policies in Groups activities.
Calculation of the required level of insurance claims reserves is dependent on a detailed actuarial review.
Management also undertakes Sale of goods an assessment of other risks which are outside the scope of this review Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of but that are inherent in assessing potential claims liabilities.
A change ownership of the goods have transferred to the buyer and the amount in the estimate of any of the key variables in this calculation could of revenue can be measured reliably.
have the potential to significantly impact the reserve balance recognised which would therefore also impact the insurance commission revenue Revenue is recorded net of returns, discounts offers and value added recognised in the income statement.
Offers include: money-off coupons, conditional spend vouchers and offers such as buy one get one free BOGOF and 3 for 2.
Post-employment benefit obligations The present value of the post-employment benefit obligations depends Provision of services on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using Revenue from the provision of services is recognised when the service is a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the provided and the revenue can be measured reliably, based on the terms net cost income for pensions include the discount rate.
Any changes in of the contract.
these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of post-employment benefit obligations.
Where the Group acts as an agent selling goods or services, only the commission income is included within revenue.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine Financial services the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to Revenue consists of interest, fees and income from the provision be required to settle the post-employment benefit obligations.
determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms receivables is determined using the effective interest rate method.
This is to maturity approximating the terms of the related post-employment the method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or for a benefit obligation.
Other key assumptions for post-employment benefit group of assets, and of allocating the interest income over the expected obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
Additional life of the asset.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts the information is disclosed in note 28. estimated future cash flows to the instruments initial carrying amount.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosure Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable, The Group has adopted the following new and amended standards that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts and interpretations as of 28 February 2010: on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations is effective for periods Fees in respect of services such as credit card interchange, late payment beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues and balance transfer fees and ATM revenue are recognised as the right to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, but with to consideration accrues through the provision of the service to the certain significant changes.
All payments to purchase a business customer.
The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of will be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some providing the service is incurred as the service is rendered.
The price is contingent payments subsequently remeasured at fair value through usually fixed and always determinable.
Goodwill and non-controlling interests may be calculated on a gross or net basis.
All transaction costs will The Group generates commission from the sale and service of Motor and be expensed.
Home Insurance policies underwritten by Tesco Underwriting Limited.
This is based on pre-determined commission rates at the point of sale.
Similar commission income is also generated from the sale of white label insurance products underwritten by other third party providers.
100 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
