Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the forty-eighth 9.
To re-appoint Geoff Cooper as a director of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to Annual General Meeting of Travis Perkins plc will the Company.
Biographical details of Geoff exercise all the powers of the Company to be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, Cooper appear on page 46. allot: Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, 10.
To re-appoint Paul Hampden Smith as a a shares as defined in section 540 of the NN5 5BG on Tuesday 22 May 2012 at 11.45 am.
Biographical details Companies Act 2006 or grant rights to of Paul Hampden Smith appear on page 46. subscribe for or to convert any security The Resolutions 11.
To re-appoint John Carter as a director of into shares up to an aggregate nominal Resolutions 1 to 16 inclusive will be proposed the Company.
Biographical details of John amount of 8,132,018: and as ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 17 to 19 Carter appear on page 46. b equity securities as such phrase is inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP, Chartered to be interpreted in accordance with 1.
To receive the Companys annual accounts Accountants, as auditors of the Company section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 for the financial year ended 31 December to hold office from the conclusion of this up to an aggregate nominal amount 2011, together with the directors report, meeting until the conclusion of the next of 16,264,037 such amount to be the directors remuneration report and general meeting of the Company at which reduced by the aggregate nominal the auditors report on those accounts accounts are laid.
amount of shares allotted or rights to and on the auditable part of the directors 13.
To authorise the Directors to fix the subscribe for or to convert any security remuneration report.
into shares in the Company granted 2.
To declare a final dividend for the financial 14.
That the directors remuneration report for under paragraph a of this resolution 16 year ended 31 December 2011 of 13.5 the financial year ended 31 December 2011 in connection with an offer by way of a pence per ordinary share, payable to set out on pages 56 to 66 be approved.
rights issue: shareholders on the register at the close of 15.
That the rules of the Travis Perkins i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion business on 4 May 2012.
Sharesave Scheme 2012 the Scheme as nearly as may be practicable to 3.
To appoint Ruth Anderson as a produced in draft to this meeting and, for the their existing holdings: and non-executive director of the Company.
purposes of identification, initialled by the ii.
to holders of other equity securities Biographical details of Ruth Anderson appear Chairman, be approved and the Directors be as defined in section 560 1 of the on page 47. authorised to: Companies Act 2006 as required 4.
To re-appoint Robert Walker as a director of a.
Make such modifications to the Scheme by the rights of those securities or, the Company.
Biographical details of Robert as they may consider appropriate to take subject to such rights, as the directors Walker appear on page 46. account of the requirements of HMRC and otherwise consider necessary, 5.
To re-appoint Chris Bunker as a for the implementation of the Scheme and so that the Directors may non-executive director of the Company.
and to adopt the Scheme as so modified impose any limits or restrictions and Biographical details of Chris Bunker appear and to do all such other acts and things make any arrangements which they on page 47. as they may consider appropriate to consider necessary or appropriate to 6.
To re-appoint John Coleman as a implement the Scheme: and deal with treasury shares, fractional non-executive director of the Company.
b Establish further schemes based on the entitlements, record dates, legal, Biographical details of John Coleman appear Scheme but modified to take account of regulatory or practical problems in, or on page 47. local tax, exchange control or securities under the laws of, any territory or any 7.
To re-appoint Philip Jansen as a laws in overseas territories, provided that other matter, non-executive director of the Company.
any shares made available under such such authorities to apply until the end of the Biographical details of Philip Jansen appear further schemes are treated as counting Companys next annual general meeting on page 47. against the limits on individual or overall after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 8.
To re-appoint Andrew Simon as a participation in the Scheme.
until the close of business on 30 June 2013 non-executive director of the Company.
That, in substitution for all existing but, in each case, so that the Company Biographical details of Andrew Simon appear authorities, the Directors be generally and may make offers and enter into agreements on page 47. unconditionally authorised in accordance with before the authority expires which would, or 124 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 might, require shares to be allotted or rights under the laws of, any territory or any expenses which may be paid for an to subscribe for or to convert any security other matter: and ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 into shares to be granted after the authority b to the allotment of equity securities pursuant pence: expires and the Directors may allot shares to the authority granted by paragraph a c the maximum price exclusive of or grant such rights under any such offer of resolution 16 and or an allotment which expenses which may be paid for an or agreement as if the authority had not constitutes an allotment of equity securities ordinary share is an amount equal to expired.
by virtue of section 560 3 of the Companies 105% of the average of the middle 17.
That, in substitution for all existing powers Act 2006 in each case otherwise than in market quotations for an ordinary share and subject to the passing of resolution the circumstances set out in paragraph as derived from The London Stock 16, the Directors be generally empowered a of this resolution 17 up to a nominal Exchange Daily Official List for the five pursuant to section 570 of the Companies amount of 1,219,802 calculated, in the business days immediately preceding Act 2006 to allot equity securities as such case of equity securities which are rights the day on which that ordinary share is phrase is to be interpreted in section 560 of to subscribe for, or to convert securities purchased: the Companies Act 2006 for cash pursuant into, ordinary shares as defined in section d this authority expires at the conclusion of to the authority granted by resolution 16 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 by the next Annual General Meeting of the and or where the allotment constitutes an reference to the aggregate nominal amount Company or 30 June 2013, whichever is allotment of equity securities by virtue of of relevant shares which may be allotted the earlier: and section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006, pursuant to such rights, such power to e the Company may make a contract to in each case free of the restriction in section apply until the end of the Companys next purchase ordinary shares under this 561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power annual general meeting after this resolution authority before the expiry of such to be limited: is passed or, if earlier, until the close of authority, which will or may be executed a to the allotment of equity securities in business on 30 June 2013 : but so that the wholly or partly after the expiry of such connection with an offer of equity securities Company may make offers and enter into authority, and may make a purchase of but in the case of an allotment pursuant agreements before the power expires which ordinary shares pursuant to any such to the authority granted by paragraph b of would, or might, require equity securities to contract.
resolution 16, such power shall be limited be allotted after the power expires and the to the allotment of equity securities in Directors may allot equity securities under connection with an offer by way of a rights any such offer or agreement as if the power issue only : had not expired.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion 18.
That a general meeting other than an annual as nearly as may be practicable to general meeting may be called on not less their existing holdings: and than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board ii to holders of other equity securities 19.
That the Company be and is hereby Andrew Pike as defined in section 560 1 of the generally and unconditionally authorised Company Secretary Companies Act 2006, as required to make one or more market purchases Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, by the rights of those securities or, within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Northampton NN5 7UG subject to such rights, as the directors Companies Act 2006 of ordinary shares of 21 February 2012 otherwise consider necessary, and 10 pence each in the capital of the Company Registered in England No.
824821 so that the Directors may impose any ordinary shares, provided that: limits or restrictions and make any a the maximum aggregate number Directions to Northampton Rugby Football Club arrangements which they consider of ordinary shares authorised to be can be found on page 129. necessary or appropriate to deal purchased is 24,396,055 representing with treasury shares, fractional 10% of the issued share capital of the entitlements, record dates, legal, Company as at 21 February 2012 : regulatory or practical problems in, or b the minimum price exclusive of 125 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
