Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting other day or days as may be agreed with HMRC : the institutional investors decide that they need Summary of principal terms of the and ii if the option relates only to new issue not count.
Travis Perkins Sharesave Scheme Shares, the nominal value of a Share.
2012 the Scheme The option price will be determined by Variation of capital Operation reference to dealing days which fall within six If there is a variation in the Companys share The operation of the Scheme will be supervised weeks of the announcement by the Company capital then the Board may, subject to HMRC by the board of directors of the Company the of its results for any period or at any other time approval, make such adjustment as it considers Board.
It will be approved by HM Revenue when the Board considers there to be exceptional appropriate to the number of Shares under option & Customs HMRC in order to provide UK circumstances which justify offering options and the option price.
tax-advantaged options to UK employees.
Rights attaching to shares Eligibility Exercise of options Any Shares allotted when an option is exercised Employees and full-time directors of the Options will normally be exercisable for a six under the Scheme will rank equally with Company and any designated participating month period from the third, fifth or seventh Shares then in issue except for rights arising subsidiary who are UK resident taxpayers are anniversary of the commencement of the related by reference to a record date prior to their eligible to participate.
The Board may require savings contracts.
Earlier exercise is permitted, allotment.
employees to have completed a qualifying period however, in the following circumstances: of employment of up to five years before the following cessation of employment by reason Alterations to the scheme grant of options.
The Board may also allow other of death, injury, disability, redundancy, The Board may amend the provisions of the employees to participate.
retirement on reaching age 60 or any other Scheme in any respect, provided that the prior age at which the employee is bound to approval of shareholders is obtained for any Grant of options retire under his terms of employment or the amendments that are to the advantage of Options can only be granted to employees who business or company that the employee works participants in respect of the rules governing enter into HMRC approved savings contracts, for ceasing to be part of the Companys group: eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits under which monthly savings are normally made when an employee reaches 60: on the issue of Shares or the transfer of treasury over a period of three or five years.
Options where employment ceases more than three Shares, the basis for determining a participants must be granted within 30 days or 42 days if years from grant for any reason other than entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares to be applications are scaled back of the first day by dismissal for misconduct: and acquired and the adjustment of options.
reference to which the option price is set.
The in the event of a takeover, amalgamation, The requirement to obtain the prior approval number of Shares over which an option is granted reconstruction or winding-up of the Company, of shareholders will not, however, apply to will be such that the total option price payable for except in the case of an internal corporate any minor alteration made to benefit the those Shares will correspond to the proceeds on re-organisation when the Board may decide to administration of the Scheme, to take account of maturity of the related savings contract.
exchange existing options for equivalent new a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain An option may not be granted more than 10 options over shares in a new holding company.
favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory years after shareholder approval of the Scheme.
Except where stated above, options will lapse on treatment for participants or for any company in Options are not transferable, except on death.
cessation of employment or directorship with the the Companys group.
Shares will be allotted or transferred to Overseas schemes Individual participation participants within 30 days of exercise.
The shareholder resolution to approve the Monthly savings by an employee under all savings Scheme will allow the Board, without further contracts linked to options granted under any Overall scheme limits shareholder approval, to establish further sharesave scheme may not exceed the statutory The Scheme may operate over new issue Shares, schemes for overseas territories, any such maximum currently 250.
The Board may set a treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the scheme to be similar to the Scheme, but modified lower limit in relation to any particular grant.
to take account of local tax, exchange control or In any ten calendar year period, the Company securities laws, provided that any Shares made Option price may not issue or grant rights to issue more available under such further schemes are treated The price per Share payable upon the exercise of than 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share as counting against the limits on individual and an option will not be less than the higher of: i 80 capital of the Company under the Scheme and overall participation in the Scheme.
of the average middle-market quotation any other employee share Scheme adopted by of a Share on the London Stock Exchange on the Company.
the three days preceding a date specified in an Treasury Shares will count as new issue invitation to participate in the Scheme or such Shares for the purposes of these limits unless 126
