com the product range available.
Customers are also Shareholder enquiries www.
co. uk able to construct their own price quotation that Shareholder enquiries should be directed to the www.
com includes any special price arrangements that Company Secretary at the Companys registered www.
co. uk have been negotiated with the Group.
co. uk Lodge Way House, Lodge Way, Harlestone www.
co. uk Electronic communication Road, Northampton NN5 7UG www.
co. uk In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 telephone 01604 752424: www.
com and the Companys Articles of Association, the email cosec@travisperkins.
co. uk company is allowed to use its website to publish or to the Companys registrars, www.
co. uk statutory documents and communications to Capita Registrars, www.
co. uk shareholders, such as the Annual Report and The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, www.
co. uk Accounts and the Notice of the AGM.
You can Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU www.
co. uk therefore view or download a copy of the Annual telephone 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p www.
co. uk hire Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM per minute plus network extras: lines are open www.
co. uk by going to our website at www.
co. uk going live in March com see section called Investor Centre.
co. uk you received a hard copy of this report in the www.
co. uk hire post then you will not have consented to this Should your query relate to a pensions matter www.
Should you now wish to please email pensions@travisperkins.
co. uk consent to this method of publication, you should your query relates to a marketing matter please www.
co. uk contact Capita Registrars, Freepost RLYX-GZTUemail marketing@travisperkins.
co. uk KRRG, SAS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, www.
By reducing the number Financial diary www.
co. uk of communications sent by post, it will not Announcement of 2011 www.
co. uk only result in cost savings to the Company but annual results: 22 February 2012 www.
com also reduce the impact that the unnecessary Ex-dividend date: 2 May 2012 www.
co. uk printing and distribution of reports has on the Record date: 4 May 2012 www.
Please note that if you consent Annual General Meeting: 22 May 2012 www.
co. uk to website publication, you will continue to be Payment of final dividend: 31 May 2012 www.
co. uk notified each time that the Company places a Announcement of 2012 www.
co. uk statutory communication on the website.
This interim results: July 2012 www.
co. uk notification will be sent to you by post.
co. uk you may also choose to receive notifications by annual results: February 2013 www.
co. uk e-mail and we would encourage you to do so.
co. uk you wish to receive these notifications by e-mail, Annual general meeting www.
co. uk you should register at www.
co. uk com, and follow the instructions see Registrars It has always been the Companys custom www.
co. uk On-Line Service below.
to provide a light luncheon for shareholders www.
com investor relations site Please telephone Capita Registrars on following the AGM and a buffet luncheon will be www.
co. uk 0871 664 0391 within the UK, calls cost 10p available.
You need not notify the company in www.
co. uk per minute plus network extras: lines are open advance if you would like lunch.
co. uk 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday Friday or 44 20 www.
co. uk 8639 3367 Non-UK if you have any queries.
Internet There are sites on the internet that carry a range These sites allow credit account holders Notes of information about the Group and its principal to order on-line through Trademate, with 1.
Before consenting to receive documents and brands, products and services at the following the exception of the Wickes, Tile Giant and communications via the website, shareholders addresses: Toolstation sites which allow on-line ordering by should ensure that they have a computer with www.
co. uk secure card transaction.
internet access and the Adobe Acrobat reader www.
co. uk Most of the sites provide information about facility.
The Adobe Acrobat reader software may www.
co. uk branch locations and allow access to prices and be obtained via the website free of charge.
co. uk end user site 130 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2.
If you elect to receive notifications of including the lodgement of an electronic proxy entry.
Please contact Capita who will be pleased the publication of the documents and form that is found to contain any computer to carry out your instructions.
communications on the website electronically, virus will not be accepted.
it will be your responsibility to notify our 7 The Company reserves the right, irrespective Overseas shareholders registrars, Capita, of any subsequent change of your election, to revert to sending hard copy Capita are able to provide you with a service that in your e-mail address or other contact documentation by post whenever it considers will convert your sterling dividends into your local details.
it necessary or desirable to do so.
If you are not resident in the United receive payment directly into your bank account, Kingdom, it is your responsibility to ensure Capita registrars or you can be sent a draft in your local currency.
that you may validly receive documents and The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Further details are available from Capita communications electronically either generally Capita, provide a number of services that, as a Registrars, Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, The or in relation to any particular document or shareholder, might be useful to you: Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent communication without the Company being BR3 9ZA: telephone UK: 0871 664 0385 Calls required to comply with any governmental Registrars on-line service cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras: or regulatory procedures or any similar By logging onto www.
com and lines are open to 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday formalities.
The Company may deny electronic following the prompts, shareholders can view Friday or 44 208 639 3405 Non-UK or by access to documents and communications and amend various details on their account.
logging on to relating to certain corporate actions in respect Please note that you will need to register to use www.
of those shareholders who it believes are this service for which purpose you will require resident in jurisdictions where it is advised your unique investor code, which can be found Share dealing services that to provide such access would or may be a on your share certificate, proxy card or dividend There are two share dealing services that you breach of any legal or regulatory requirements.
may wish to use to buy or sell shares in Travis 4.
The Companys obligation to provide Perkins but alternatively there are many other shareholder documents to you is satisfied Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP options that you could use : when it transmits an electronic message.
The This is a scheme which allows you to use 1.
Capita offers an on-line and telephone share Company is not responsible for any failure in your dividends to buy further shares in Travis dealing service which is available by logging transmission for reasons beyond its control Perkins.
For any shareholders who wish to on to www.
com or telephoning any more than it is for postal failures.
In the re-invest dividend payments in the Company, a 0871 664 0346 calls cost 10p per minute event of the Company becoming aware that facility is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd in plus network extras: lines are open 8.00am an electronic communication to you has not conjunction with Capita Registrars.
Under this to 4.30pm, Monday Friday.
For the on-line been successfully transmitted, a further two facility, cash dividends are used to purchase service, Capitas commission rates are 1% of attempts will be made.
If the transmission is additional shares.
Shares are bought on the the value of the deal minimum 20, maximum still unsuccessful, a hard copy of the relevant dividend payment date at the then current market 75 and for the telephone service, Capitas notification will be posted to your registered price.
Any cash left over which is insufficient to commission rates are 1.50% of the value of address.
purchase a whole share will be carried forward the deal minimum 25, maximum 102.50.
Your registration to receive electronic and held without interest, in a Client Money 2.
Stocktrade offer a telephone share dealing communications and your relevant contact bank account.
Any shareholder requiring further service which is available by telephoning 0845 address details will stand until such time as information should contact Capita on 0871 6010 995 non-UK 44131 240 0414 and the Company receives alternative instructions 664 0381 Calls cost 10p per minute plus any quoting reference Low cost 335.
Stocktrades from you by e-mail or in writing.
network extras from within the UK: lines are open commission will be 0.5%, to 10,000 and 6 The Company takes all reasonable precautions from 9.00 am to 5.30 pm Monday - Friday.
If 0.2% on the excess thereafter, subject to to ensure no computer viruses are present Non-UK 44 0208 639 3402.
Please note that UK in any electronic communication it transmits, 1023.
com or share purchases will be subject to 0.5% but the Company shall not be responsible for visit www.
There will also be a PTM Panel any loss or damage arising from the opening for Takeovers and Mergers levy of 1 for or use of any e-mail or attachments sent by Duplicate share register accounts single trades in excess of 10,000.
When the Company or on its behalf.
The Company If you are receiving more than one copy of our buying shares you will be required to pay for recommends that shareholders subject report, it may be that your shares are registered your transaction at the time of the deal by all messages to computer virus checking in two or more accounts on our register of debit card, and you should ensure that you procedures.
If that was not your intention you have sufficient cleared funds available in your received by or on behalf of the Company, might consider merging them into one single debit card account to pay for the shares in full.
131 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Warning Regarding Unsolicited Calls and Mail We have been made aware that several of often referred to as a bond, and send them our shareholders have received unsolicited your share certificate.
No reputable company calls or mail regarding their shareholding in would behave in this way and so, if you do Travis Perkins, and offering to buy shares at an receive an approach, we would suggest that you attractive price.
Typically these approaches come ignore it or treat it with caution if it sounds too from overseas companies.
good to be true, it probably is!
Further details of Such approaches are invariably scams and these so called boiler room scams can be found usually the people involved will ask you to provide on our website www.
com them with your bank details, or send them money Shareholder Notes 132 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC General Merchanting Consumer Specialist Merchanting Plumbing and Heating Travis Perkins Midlands Tile Giant Benchmarx and North West Birchwood Price Tools Toolstation CCF Travis Perkins Northern BSS Wickes Keyline Travis Perkins South East City Plumbing Travis Perkins South West DHS and Wales F&P Wholesale PTS Spendlove C. Jebb Printed on: Revive 50 Silk, a recycled paper containing 50% recycled waste and 50% virgin bre and manufactured at a mill certi ed with ISO 14001 environmental This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial management standard.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process ECF, and advice from your stockbroker or other independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Tauro Offset, made from virgin wood bre sourced mainly from sustainable forests in the EC.
It is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process.
Travis Perkins plc, please forward this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to the purchaser or transferee or to the person who This material can be disposed of by recycling, or incineration for energy and composting.
arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Designed by RWH Design Consultants, Photography by Charles Ward Printed by Jones and Palmer T TP COVER ARTWORK.
indd 2 1 10 04 2012 11:50 0 04 2012 11:50 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Adjust spine if necessary T ravis Perkins The largest supplier of building materials in the UK Annual Report and Accounts 2011 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC Travis Perkins plc, Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG.
com TRAVIS PERKINS PLC T TP COVER ARTWORK.
