TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting 1.
A form of proxy is enclosed and instructions Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any for its use are shown on the form.
The Road, Northampton, NN5 5BQ at 11.45 change of instructions to proxies appointed appointment of a proxy will not prevent a am on Tuesday 22 May 2012 and any through CREST should be communicated to member from subsequently attending, voting adjournment s thereof must be returned to the appointee through other means.
and speaking at the Meeting in person, in Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, CREST members and, where applicable, which case any votes of the proxy will be Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, by 11.45 am on their CREST sponsors and voting service superseded.
Alternatively you may submit providers should note that Euroclear UK & your proxy form online by accessing the Ireland Limited does not make available 2.
A member of the Company is entitled to Shareholder portal at www.
special procedures in CREST for any particular appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his com, logging in and selecting the Proxy messages.
Normal system timings and rights to attend, speak and vote at a general Voting link.
If you have not previously limitations will therefore apply in relation meeting of the Company.
A member may registered for electronic communications, to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It appoint more than one proxy, provided that you will first be asked to register as a new is the responsibility of the CREST member each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights user, for which you will require your investor concerned to take or, if the CREST member attaching to different shares.
A proxy need not code which can be found on the enclosed is a CREST personal member or sponsored be a member.
proxy form, your share certificate or dividend member or has appointed a voting service tax voucher, family name and post code if provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor 3.
To appoint more than one proxy, an resident in the UK.
or voting service provider s take s such additional proxy form s may be obtained action as shall be necessary to ensure that by contacting the Registrars or you may 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy a message is transmitted by means of the photocopy the form.
Please indicate in the box or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy CREST system by any particular time.
In this next to the proxy holders name the number of appointment service may do by using the connection, CREST members and, where shares in relation to which they are authorised procedures described in the CREST Manual.
applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate by CREST personal members or other CREST service providers are referred, in particular, ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction sponsored members, and those CREST to those sections of the CREST Manual is one of multiple instructions being given.
All members who have appointed a voting concerning practical limitations of the CREST forms must be signed and should be returned service provider s should refer to their system and timings.
The CREST Manual can together in the same envelope.
CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, be reviewed at www.
who will be able to take the appropriate The Company may treat as invalid a CREST 4.
The right to appoint a proxy under note action on their behalf.
Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out 1 and 2 above does not apply to persons In order for a proxy appointment made in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated whose shares are held on their behalf by means of CREST to be valid, the Securities Regulations 2001. by another person and who have been appropriate CREST message a CREST In each case the proxy appointments must nominated to receive communication from Proxy Instruction must be properly be received by the Company not less than 48 the Company in accordance with Section authenticated in accordance with Euroclear hours before the time appointed for holding 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Nominated persons may have a must contain the information required right under an agreement with the registered for such instructions, as described in the 7.
Only those members entered on the register shareholder who holds shares on their CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of of members of the Company as at 6.00 pm behalf to be appointed or to have someone whether it constitutes the appointment of a on 18 May 2012 shall be entitled to attend or else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if proxy or an amendment to the instruction vote at the meeting in respect of the number nominated persons do not have such a right, given to a previously appointed proxy must, of shares registered in their name at that or do not wish to exercise it, they may have in order to be valid, be transmitted so as time.
Changes to entries on the register of a right under such an agreement to give to be received by the Companys agent ID members after that time shall be disregarded instructions to the person holding the shares RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of in determining the rights of any person to as to the exercise of voting rights.
proxy appointments 11.45 am on 18 May attend or vote at the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt 5.
To be effective, the instrument appointing will be taken to be the time as determined 8.
Reference to the register means the issuer a proxy and any authority under which by the timestamp applied to the message register of members and the Operator register it is signed or a notarially certified copy by the CREST Application Host from which of members maintained in accordance with of such authority for the Annual General the Companys agent is able to retrieve the Regulation 20 of the Uncertificated Securities Meeting to be held at Northampton Rugby message by enquiry to CREST in the manner Regulations 2001.
127 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting 9.
The following documents will be available 12.
The statement of the rights of members in or ii to include in the business to be dealt for inspection at the Registered Office of relation to the appointment of proxies in with at the meeting any matter other than a the Company during usual business hours paragraphs 1 to 6 above does not apply to a proposed resolution which may be properly on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and Nominated Person.
The rights described in included in the business.
A resolution may public holidays excluded from the date of these paragraphs can only be exercised by properly be moved or a matter may properly this Notice to the date of the meeting and registered members of the Company.
be included in the business unless a in at Northampton Rugby Football Club from the case of a resolution only it would, if 11.15 am on the day of the meeting until the 13.
Any corporation which is a member passed, be ineffective whether by reason conclusion of the meeting.
can appoint one or more corporate of inconsistency with any enactment or the Copies of contracts of service of directors representatives who may exercise on companys constitution or otherwise, b it is and nonexecutive directors letters of its behalf all of the same powers as the defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous appointment with the Company, or with corporation could exercise if it were an or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard any of its subsidiary companies.
copy form or in electronic form, must identify The register of directors interests kept by the resolution of which notice is to be given the Company.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act or the matter to be included in the business, A copy of the Companys Articles of 2006 members meeting the threshold must be authorised by the person or persons Association.
requirements set out in that section have the making it, must be received by the company A statement giving particulars of directors right to require the company to publish on a not later than 9 April 2012, being the date relevant transactions.
website a statement setting out any matter six clear weeks before the meeting, and in A copy of the draft rules of the Travis relating to: i the audit of the Companys the case of a matter to be included in the Perkins Sharesave Scheme 2012.
Copies accounts including the auditors report and business only must be accompanied by a will also be available for inspection at the conduct of the audit that are to be laid statement setting out the grounds for the the offices of New Bridge Street, 10 before the meeting: or ii any circumstance request.
Devonshire Square, London, EC2M 4YP connected with an auditor of the Company during usual business hours on any ceasing to hold office since the previous 16.
Shareholders and their proxies will have the weekday Saturdays and English public meeting at which annual accounts and opportunity to ask questions at the Meeting.
holidays excepted from the date of this reports were laid in accordance with section When invited by the Chairman, if you wish to notice until the conclusion of the meeting.
The ask a question, please wait for a Company Company may not require the shareholders representative to bring you a microphone.
At 21 February 2012 being the latest requesting any such website publication to would be helpful if you could state your name practicable date before publication of this pay its expenses in complying with sections before you ask your question.
Questions notice the issued share capital of the 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006. may not be answered at the Meeting if they Company consisted of 243,960,557 ordinary Where the Company is required to place a are deemed not to be in the interests of the shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, statement on a website under section 527 of Company, or the good order of the Meeting, the total voting rights in the Company as at the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the would interfere unduly with the preparation 21 February 2012 was 243,960,557. statement to the Companys auditor not later for the Meeting or involve the disclosure of than the time when it makes the statement confidential information, or if the answer 11.
A person to whom this Notice is sent who is available on the website.
The business has already been given on a website.
The a person nominated under Section 146 of which may be dealt with at the meeting Chairman may also nominate a Company the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information includes any statement that the Company representative to answer a specific question rights a Nominated Person may, under has been required under section 527 of the after the Meeting or refer the response to the an agreement between him her and the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have 15.
Under section 338 and section 338A of the 17.
A copy of this Notice, and other information someone else appointed as a proxy for the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the required by section 311A of the Companies Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such threshold requirements in those sections Act 2006, can be found in the Investor proxy appointment right or does not wish have the right to require the company i to Centre at www.
to exercise it, he she may, under any such give, to members of the company entitled agreement, have a right to give instructions to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a to the shareholder as to the exercise of resolution which may properly be moved and voting rights.
is intended to be moved at the meeting and 128
