overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Independent auditors report to the members of African Barrick Gold plc 34. Business combination We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies African Barrick Gold plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which Act 2006 On 27 April 2010, the Company, through BUK Holdco Ltd, one of its immediate subsidiaries, purchased 100% of the issued share capital of comprise the Parent Company Income Statement, Parent Company Tusker Gold Ltd Tusker by way of a takeover offer for an aggregate net consideration of approximately US$74 million.
Tusker is an Australian In our opinion: Statement of Comprehensive Income, Parent Company Balance Sheet, based exploration company with a focus on gold.
Tusker was listed on the Australian Stock Exchange but was delisted from the Exchange as part the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, Parent Company of the acquisition.
All of Tuskers assets are located in Tanzania and consist of a significant gold resource base and additional exploration ground.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law the information given in the Directors report for the financial year and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for which the parent company financial statements are prepared in thousands of United States dollars 2010 by the European Union.
is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Purchase consideration 74,232 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception Fair value of net assets acquired 52,209 As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement Goodwill on acquisition 22,023 We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where set out on page 99, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: The goodwill arose after the application of IAS 12 Income taxes and is attributable principally to expanding growth opportunities in Tanzania.
of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and There has been no change to the provisional fair value during the year.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in from branches not visited by us: or accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 35.
Post balance sheet events the parent company financial statements and the part of the Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Dividend Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the accounting records and returns: or A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 of US13.1 cents per share, amounting to a final dividend of US16.3 cents per share This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law for 2011, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2012.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 are not made: or of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
we have not received all the information and explanations we We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility require for our audit.
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed Other matter by our prior consent in writing.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of African Barrick Gold plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the JASON BURKITT, parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting For and on behalf of  LLP estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and London non-financial information in the annual report to identify material 7 March 2012 inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become Notes: aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
a The maintenance and integrity of the African Barrick Gold plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for Opinion on financial statements any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
at 31 December 2011 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. annUal report and accoUnts 2011 165
