Glossary of terms continued Employer payroll taxes These comprise payroll and employer taxes Tulawaka the joint venture agreement dated 15 september payable as a result of a companys capacity as an employer.
typically, Agreement 1998 as amended from time to time between these taxes would be reflected in payroll tax returns made to pgi and mDn governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis Tusker Gold tusker gold limited, a company incorporated often monthly throughout the year shortly after the submission under the laws of western australia of the return.
These taxes form part of our operating costs.
TZS tanzanian shilling Environmental taxes These comprise rea levies or other payments to governments relating to environmental policy.
typically, these taxes UK Corporate the UK corporate governance code dated tend to be payable on an annual basis.
These taxes are also included in Governance June 2010 issued by the UK financial our operating costs.
Code reporting council Indirect taxes This comprises vat and other fuel levies that arise on United the United Kingdom of great Britain and the purchase of goods and services and are paid to third parties, to be Kingdom or UK northern ireland refunded by governments.
typically, these taxes would form part of a United States the United states of america, its territories sales tax return made to governments.
refunds received are included or US and possessions, any state of the United states in the taxes refunded category.
of america and the District of columbia Stamp duty This comprises taxes that arise on transfers of assets or VAT value-added tax capital.
typically, these taxes would be reflected in stamp duty returns Voluntary means the voluntary principles on security made to governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, Principles and Human rights to governments shortly after capital or assets are transferred.
Basis of preparation for the reporting of tax data taxes collected These are taxes that a company is obliged to collect from others and pay to government.
The main taxes that we have This basis of preparation supports the reporting of tax data contained included in this category are: on page 54 of this report.
generally the references to tax in this context means any amount of money required to be paid to, or repaid Employee payroll taxes These comprise payroll and employee taxes by, a government.
withheld from employee remuneration and paid to governments, i. e. taxes collected by aBg and remitted to governments on behalf of in overview, the key information presented as regards tax is as follows: employees under arrangements such as paYe schemes.
typically, these taxes borne These are taxes that the aBg group is obliged to pay to a taxes would be reflected in payroll tax returns made to governments government on its own behalf, or taxes that it is obliged to pay to a third and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly party and that can cannot be recovered from a government.
The main throughout the year, shortly after submission of the return.
taxes that we have included in this category are: Withholding taxes collected from suppliers These comprise taxes that Government royalties These comprise payments made to governments are required to be withheld in advance on payments made to suppliers.
typically these tend to become payable, and typically, these taxes would be reflected in income tax returns made are paid, in the year to which they relate.
These taxes form part of our to governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular operating costs.
basis often monthly throughout the year shortly after the submission of the return.
Corporate income tax this comprises any tax on the business calculated on the basis of its profits, income or capital gains.
typically, taxes refunded These are taxes that are refunded by governments these taxes would be reflected in corporate income tax returns made to aBg.
These mostly comprise the following: to governments.
Indirect taxes mainly VAT and fuel levies typically, indirect taxes would tend to become repayable and are repaid by governments Customs duties These comprise all customs excise import and regularly often quarterly throughout the year, shortly after the export duties.
typically, these taxes tend to become payable and are submission of relevant sales tax returns.
also included are other paid to governments at the point where goods are imported and refunds received.
These taxes form part of our operating and capital incurred costs.
