Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information African Barrick Gold plc the Company was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 12 March 2010 under the Companies Act 2006.
It is registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187.
On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered office is 6 St Jamess Place, London SW1A 1NP, United Kingdom.
Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 73.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate parent and controlling party of the Group.
In preparation for the IPO, BGC conducted a reorganisation, which was completed on 22 February 2010, whereby the companies comprising the African Regional Business Unit of BGC were reorganised under the Company the Pre-IPO Reorganisation.
As such, prior to 22 February 2010, the Company did not control all of the entities collectively the Group it acquired pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 7 March 2012.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Equity interest Equity interest at 31 December at 31 December Company Principal activity Country of Incorporation Relationship 2011 2010 African Barrick Gold plc Holding Company UK 100% 100% BUK HoldCo Ltd Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 100% 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% BarbCo One Ltd Group Finance Company Barbados Subsidiary 100% 100% BAPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius Subsidiary 100% 100% CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% Barrick Exploration Africa Ltd BEAL Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Mkumi Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 80% 80% Sekenke Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Associate 20% 20% Nyanzaga Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% Barisun Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Safari Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Kasubuya Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 60% 60% KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% North Mara Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Pangea Goldfields Inc. Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% Barrick Africa Proprietary Ltd Shared Services South Africa Subsidiary 100% 100% East Africa Gold Mines Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% Tusker Gold Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% Indago Autan Proprietary Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% IDG Aurum Holdings Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% IDG Aurum Tanzania Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% IDG Kitongo Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% www.
com 122 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Equity interest Equity interest 1.
General information at 31 December at 31 December Company Principal activity Country of Incorporation Relationship 2011 2010 African Barrick Gold plc the Company was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 12 March 2010 Aptian Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% under the Companies Act 2006.
Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and to trading Kahama Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 49% 49% on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered office Nyakafuru Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 51% 51% is 6 St Jamess Place, London SW1A 1NP, United Kingdom.
Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 73.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate parent and controlling There are no restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the parent in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances.
The joint ventures included in the table above are currently immaterial to the Group.
In preparation for the IPO, BGC conducted a reorganisation, which was completed on 22 February 2010, whereby the companies comprising the 2.
Significant accounting policies African Regional Business Unit of BGC were reorganised under the Company the Pre-IPO Reorganisation.
As such, prior to 22 February 2010, The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been the Company did not control all of the entities collectively the Group it acquired pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation.
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company a Basis of preparation on 7 March 2012.
The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by The principal activities of the subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: the European Union IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretation and those parts of the Companies Equity interest Equity interest Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
at 31 December at 31 December Company Principal activity Country of Incorporation Relationship 2011 2010 The Company became the holding company for the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation completed on 22 February 2010, as detailed in African Barrick Gold plc Holding Company UK 100% 100% Note 1.
As this was a reorganisation of businesses under common control, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December BUK HoldCo Ltd Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 100% 2010 have been prepared on a basis that combines the results and assets and liabilities of each of the companies constituting the Group the pooling 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% of interest method of accounting.
BarbCo One Ltd Group Finance Company Barbados Subsidiary 100% 100% For the periods prior to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation, consolidated financial statements were not prepared for the Group.
The accompanying BAPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius Subsidiary 100% 100% consolidated financial statements present the results of the Company and its subsidiaries as if the Group had been in existence throughout the CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% period presented and as if the Pre-IPO Reorganisation had occurred as at 1 January 2010.
Barrick Exploration Africa Ltd BEAL Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention basis, as modified by the revaluation of financial Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Mkumi Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 80% 80% The consolidated financial statements are presented in United States dollars US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 Sekenke Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Associate 20% 20% except when otherwise indicated.
Nyanzaga Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% The Groups primary business is the mining, processing and sale of gold.
The Group has four operating mines located in Tanzania.
The Group Barisun Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% also has a portfolio of exploration projects located across Africa.
Safari Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Where a change in the presentational format between the prior year and current year financial statements has been made during the period, Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
The following presentational changes were made during the current year: Kasubuya Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 60% 60% Corporate social responsibility expenses previously included in other charges have been separately disclosed on the face on the consolidated KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% income statement.
Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% The movement in the rehabilitation liability previously included in the investing cash flows of the cash flow statement has been reclassified.
North Mara Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% The movement and the corresponding increase in property, plant and equipment has been excluded from the cash flow statement due to Pangea Goldfields Inc. Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% the fact that it is a non-cash movement.
The nature of the change is reclassification and does not affect the net cash used in investing activities.
Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Financial liabilities previously excluded current liabilities and are now presented including both non-current and current liabilities.
Note 27 1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% Barrick Africa Proprietary Ltd Shared Services South Africa Subsidiary 100% 100% Payroll accruals and accrued bonuses previously included in accrued expenses have been reclassified to payroll-related payables.
Note 24 East Africa Gold Mines Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% The segment capital expenditure has been expanded in the current year and restated in the prior year to include expenditure on capitalised Tusker Gold Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% development as a separate category.
Note 3 Indago Autan Proprietary Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% Direct mining costs included in cost of sales have been restated to split this cost between third party smelting costs and other direct mining costs.
IDG Aurum Holdings Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Note 5 IDG Aurum Tanzania Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires IDG Kitongo Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in Note 2e.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued b New and amended standards adopted by the Group There are no new IFRSs or IFRIC Interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2011 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
c New and amended standards, and interpretations mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011 but not currently relevant to the Group although they may affect the accounting for future transactions and events The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 or later periods, but are currently not relevant to the Group.
Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of rights issues.
The Standard was amended to allow rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency to be classified as equity instruments provided the entity offers the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments.
This interpretation clarifies the requirements of IFRSs when an entity renegotiates the terms of a financial liability with its creditor and the creditor agrees to accept the entitys shares or other equity instruments to settle the financial liability fully or partially.
Amendment to IFRS 1, First-time adoption of IFRS Limited exemption from comparative IFRS 7 disclosures for first-time adopters, provides the same relief to first-time adopters as was given to current users of IFRSs upon adoption of the amendments to IFRS 7.
Also clarifies the transition provisions of the amendments to IFRS 7.
IAS 24, Related party disclosures revised 2009.
Amends the definition of a related party and modifies certain related-party disclosure requirements for government-related entities.
Amendment to IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
The amendment removes unintended consequences arising from the treatment of pre-payments where there is a minimum funding requirement.
Results in pre-payments of contributions in certain circumstances being recognised as an asset rather than an expense.
d New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011 and not early adopted The Groups and parent entitys assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below.
IFRIC 20, Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine.
This interpretation addresses the following issues: recognition of production stripping costs as an asset: initial measurement of the stripping activity asset: and subsequent measurement of the stripping activity asset.
This interpretation considers when and how to account for the benefit arising from the stripping activity, as well as how to measure these benefits both initially and subsequently.
The interpretation is effective from 1 January 2013.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRIC 20.
Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures on derecognition.
This amendment will promote transparency in the reporting of transfer transactions and improve users understanding of the risk exposures relating to transfers of financial assets and the effect of those risks on an entitys financial position, particularly those involving securitisation of financial assets.
The standard is applicable for financial periods starting 1 July 2011 but is available for early adoption subject to EU endorsement.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups or parent entitys financial statements.
Amendment to IFRS 1, First time adoption, on fixed dates and hyperinflation.
These amendments include two changes to IFRS 1, First-time adoption of IFRS.
The first replaces references to a fixed date of 1 January 2004 with the date of transition to IFRSs, thus eliminating the need for entities adopting IFRSs for the first time to restate derecognition transactions that occurred before the date of transition to IFRSs.
The second amendment provides guidance on how an entity should resume presenting financial statements in accordance with IFRSs after a period when the entity was unable to comply with IFRSs because its functional currency was subject to severe hyperinflation.
The amendment is applicable from 1 July 2011 but is not expected to have any impact on the Groups or the parent entitys financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes on deferred tax.
IAS 12, Income taxes, currently requires an entity to measure the deferred tax relating to an asset depending on whether the entity expects to recover the carrying amount of the asset through use or sale.
It can be difficult and subjective to assess whether recovery will be through use or through sale when the asset is measured using the fair value model in IAS 40, Investment property.
This amendment therefore introduces an exception to the existing principle for the measurement of deferred tax assets or liabilities arising on investment property measured at fair value.
As a result of the amendments, SIC 21, Income taxes recovery of revalued non-depreciable assets, will no longer apply to investment properties carried at fair value.
The amendments also incorporate into IAS 12 the remaining guidance previously contained in SIC 21, which is withdrawn.
The amendment is effective from 1 January 2012 but is not expected to have any impact on the Groups or the parent entitys financial statements.
com 124 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation regarding other comprehensive income.
The main change resulting from this amendment 2.
Significant accounting policies continued is a requirement for entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income OCI on the basis of whether they are potentially b New and amended standards adopted by the Group reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently reclassification adjustments.
The amendments do not address which items are presented in OCI.
There are no new IFRSs or IFRIC Interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2011 that The amendment is effective from 1 July 2012.
would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benefits.
These amendments eliminate the corridor approach and calculate finance costs on a net c New and amended standards, and interpretations mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011 but not funding basis.
The amendment is effective from 1 January 2013.
currently relevant to the Group although they may affect the accounting for future transactions and events IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
IFRS 9 is the first standard issued as part of a wider project to replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods mixed measurement model and establishes two primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost and fair value.
The basis of beginning on or after 1 January 2011 or later periods, but are currently not relevant to the Group.
classification depends on the entitys business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
The guidance in IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of rights issues.
The Standard was amended to allow rights, on impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting continues to apply.
The standard is effective from 1 January 2013.
The Group is yet to options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency to be classified assess IFRS 9s full impact, however initial indications are that the adoption of IFRS 9 will not have a significant impact on the Groups operating as equity instruments provided the entity offers the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its results or financial position.
The objective of IFRS 10 is to establish principles for the presentation and preparation of IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments.
This interpretation clarifies the requirements of IFRSs when an entity consolidated financial statements when an entity controls one or more other entities an entity that controls one or more other entities renegotiates the terms of a financial liability with its creditor and the creditor agrees to accept the entitys shares or other equity instruments to present consolidated financial statements, defines the principle of control, and establishes controls as the basis for consolidations, sets out to settle the financial liability fully or partially.
how to apply the principle of control to identify whether an investor controls an investee and therefore must consolidate the investee and sets Amendment to IFRS 1, First-time adoption of IFRS Limited exemption from comparative IFRS 7 disclosures for first-time adopters, out the accounting requirements for the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
The provides the same relief to first-time adopters as was given to current users of IFRSs upon adoption of the amendments to IFRS 7. standard will be applicable to the Group but is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups or parent entitys financial statements.
IFRS 11 is a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements focusing on the rights and obligations of the IAS 24, Related party disclosures revised 2009.
Amends the definition of a related party and modifies certain related-party disclosure arrangement rather than its legal form.
There are two types of joint arrangement: joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint operations arise requirements for government-related entities.
where a joint operator has rights to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangement and hence accounts for its interest in assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Joint ventures arise where the joint operator has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and hence equity accounts Amendment to IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
The amendment for its interest.
Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed.
It is not removes unintended consequences arising from the treatment of pre-payments where there is a minimum funding requirement.
Results in expected to have a material impact on the Groups or parent entitys financial statements.
pre-payments of contributions in certain circumstances being recognised as an asset rather than an expense.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities.
IFRS 12 includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, d New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011 and not including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The amendment is effective from early adopted 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value The Groups and parent entitys assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below.
and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned IFRIC 20, Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine.
This interpretation addresses the following issues: recognition of between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use production stripping costs as an asset: initial measurement of the stripping activity asset: and subsequent measurement of the stripping activity is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
This interpretation considers when and how to account for the benefit arising from the stripping activity, as well as how to measure these is yet to assess IFRS 13s full impact, however initial indications are that the adoption of IFRS 13 will not have a significant impact on the benefits both initially and subsequently.
Groups operating results or financial position.
This amendment will promote transparency in the reporting of IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate financial statements.
IAS 27 revised 2011 includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left transfer transactions and improve users understanding of the risk exposures relating to transfers of financial assets and the effect of those risks on after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10.
The amendment is effective from 1 January 2013 but is not expected an entitys financial position, particularly those involving securitisation of financial assets.
The standard is applicable for financial periods starting to have any impact on the Groups or the parent entitys financial statements.
1 July 2011 but is available for early adoption subject to EU endorsement.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups or parent IAS 28 revised 2011, Associates and joint ventures.
IAS 28 revised 2011 includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, entitys financial statements.
to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
It is not expected to have a material Amendment to IFRS 1, First time adoption, on fixed dates and hyperinflation.
These amendments include two changes to IFRS 1, First-time impact on the Groups or parent entitys financial statements.
The second e Significant judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty amendment provides guidance on how an entity should resume presenting financial statements in accordance with IFRSs after a period when the Many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements require management to make judgements and or estimates.
These entity was unable to comply with IFRSs because its functional currency was subject to severe hyperinflation.
The amendment is applicable from judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are based on managements experience and best knowledge of the relevant facts 1 July 2011 but is not expected to have any impact on the Groups or the parent entitys financial statements.
and circumstances, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Life of Mine plans are Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes on deferred tax.
IAS 12, Income taxes, currently requires an entity to measure the deferred tax central to a number of key estimates and are approved by the Board of Directors annually.
Information about such judgements and estimations relating to an asset depending on whether the entity expects to recover the carrying amount of the asset through use or sale.
It can be difficult are included in the accounting policies and or notes to the consolidated financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
and subjective to assess whether recovery will be through use or through sale when the asset is measured using the fair value model in IAS 40, Investment property.
This amendment therefore introduces an exception to the existing principle for the measurement of deferred tax assets Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated or liabilities arising on investment property measured at fair value.
As a result of the amendments, SIC 21, Income taxes recovery of revalued financial statements include: non-depreciable assets, will no longer apply to investment properties carried at fair value.
The amendments also incorporate into IAS 12 the Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold reserves Note 2i : remaining guidance previously contained in SIC 21, which is withdrawn.
The amendment is effective from 1 January 2012 but is not expected The capitalisation of production stripping costs Note 2j : to have any impact on the Groups or the parent entitys financial statements.
The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures Notes 2m and 7: Review of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets carrying value, the determination of whether these assets are impaired and the measurement of impairment charges or reversals Notes 2p, 2q, 2r, 2s, 18 and 19: annUal report and accoUnts 2011 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The estimated fair values of cash generating units for impairment tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates Notes 2s and 19: The estimated useful lives of tangible and long-lived assets and the measurement of depreciation expense Notes 2p and 18: Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases Notes 2p and 18: Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure Notes 2v and 25: Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the amount of any such provision Notes 2v, 25 and 31: Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable Notes 2x, 16 and 21: Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense and indirect taxes Notes 2z, 11 and 20: Determination of the cost incurred in the productive process of ore stockpiles, gold in process, gold dor bullion and concentrate, as well as the associated net realisable value and the split between the long-term and short-term portions Note 15: Determination of fair value of derivative instruments Note 28: and Determination of fair value of stock options and cash-settled share based payments Note 23. f Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2011 and 2010, and operating results and cash flows for the years then ended.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the Company and companies controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the control, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies in order to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to exist where the Company has more than one half of the voting rights unless it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute control.
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights over significant operating and financial decisions.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible as well as other contractual arrangements that enable the Company to exercise control are taken into account.
The consolidated financial statements include all of the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating intercompany transactions as noted above.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control passed to the Group, and have been excluded from the date on which control transferred out of the Group.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests are presented as Equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet and Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated income statement, respectively.
g Business combinations On acquiring a business, the acquisition method of accounting is used, whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable net assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
When purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the initial cost of the acquisition recorded includes an estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to goodwill.
When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which is reviewed for impairment annually or when there is an indication of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
h Foreign currency translation The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian Shillings Shillings, South African Rands Rands, UK pounds sterling Pounds and Australian dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its main subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar are translated at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets measured at historical cost in a currency other than US dollars are translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a currency other than US dollars they are translated into US dollars using the exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.
com 126 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The estimated fair values of cash generating units for impairment tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and probable Average Average As at Year ended As at Year ended reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates Notes 2s and 19: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2011 2010 2010 The estimated useful lives of tangible and long-lived assets and the measurement of depreciation expense Notes 2p and 18: South African rand US$ : ZAR 8.08 7.23 6.66 7.31 Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases Notes 2p and 18: Tanzanian shilling US$ : TZS 1,582 1,558 1,484 1,447 Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure Australian dollars US$ : AUD 0.98 0.97 0.98 0.92 Notes 2v and 25: UK pound US$ : GBP 0.64 0.62 0.65 0.65 Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the amount of any such provision Notes 2v, 25 and 31: Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable Notes 2x, 16 and 21: i Determination of ore reserves Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense and indirect The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with taxes Notes 2z, 11 and 20: the Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects requirements.
Reports to Determination of the cost incurred in the productive process of ore stockpiles, gold in process, gold dor bullion and concentrate, as well as support these estimates are prepared each year.
Proven and probable 2P reserves, and for certain mines other mineral resources, determined in the associated net realisable value and the split between the long-term and short-term portions Note 15: this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine stripping ratios and for Determination of fair value of derivative instruments Note 28: and forecasting the timing of the payments related to the environmental rehabilitation provision.
Determination of fair value of stock options and cash-settled share based payments Note 23.
In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction.
f Basis of consolidation There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2011 and 2010, and operating results and cash flows significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or for the years then ended.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the Company and companies recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being revised.
controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the control, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies in order j Stripping costs to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to exist where the Company has more than one half of the voting rights unless it can In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be extracted be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute control.
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights over significant operating economically.
The process of mining overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
Stripping costs incurred in order to provide initial and financial decisions.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible as well as other contractual access to the ore body referred to as pre-production stripping are capitalised as open pit mine development costs.
arrangements that enable the Company to exercise control are taken into account.
Stripping costs incurred during the production stage of a pit are accounted for as costs of the inventory produced during the period that the Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Subsidiaries stripping costs were incurred, unless these costs provide a future economic benefit.
Production phase stripping costs generate a future economic are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control passed to the Group, and have been excluded from the date on benefit when the related stripping activity: i provides access to ore to be mined in the future: ii increases the fair value of the mine or pit which control transferred out of the Group.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests as access to future mineral reserves becomes less costly: iii increases the productive capacity or extends the productive life of the mine or pit.
are presented as Equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet and Net profit attributable to non-controlling For production phase stripping costs that generate a future economic benefit, the current period stripping costs are capitalised as open pit mine interests in the consolidated income statement, respectively.
g Business combinations Capitalised open pit mine development costs are depreciated on a units of production basis whereby the denominator is the estimated ounces of gold in the associated open pit in proven and probable reserves and the portion of resources considered probable of being extracted On acquiring a business, the acquisition method of accounting is used, whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable net economically.
Capitalised open pit mine development costs are depreciated once the open pit has entered production and the future economic assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the benefit is being derived.
k Revenue recognition When purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the initial cost of the acquisition recorded includes an estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that all of the following criteria are met: with corresponding adjustments made to goodwill.
the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which is reviewed neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, for impairment annually or when there is an indication of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets has been retained: exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and h Foreign currency translation the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian Shillings Shillings, South African Rands Rands, UK pounds sterling Pounds and Australian dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated Gold dor sales in US dollars.
Gold dor is unrefined gold bullion bars usually consisting of 90% gold that is refined to pure gold bullion prior to sale to our customers.
Revenue Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar are translated at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities from gold dor sales is recognised either at the time of sale to a third party or, in relation to quarter end settlements, at the time of shipment should denominated in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates.
All differences that arise are recorded the Group have received confirmation of sale to the third party.
The sales price is based on the gold spot price at the time of sale.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Concentrate sales Concentrate is a processing product containing the valuable ore mineral gold, copper and silver from which most of the waste mineral has been eliminated, that undergoes a smelting process to convert it into gold bullion, copper and silver concentrate.
Under the terms of concentrate sales contracts with independent smelting companies, gold, copper and silver in concentrate is sold at trailing monthly average spot prices based on contract quotational periods.
Revenue is recorded, net of selling costs, at the shipped on board date, which is also when risks and rewards pass to the smelting companies, using market prices on the expected date that final sales prices will be fixed.
Variations between the price recorded at the shipment date and the actual final price set under the smelting contracts are caused by changes in market prices, and result in an embedded derivative in accounts receivable.
The embedded derivative is recorded at fair value each period until final settlement occurs, with changes in fair value classified as provisional price adjustments and included as a component of revenue.
Co-product revenues from the sale of other products, such as copper and silver, contained in the concentrate are recognised in revenue.
Co-products Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, contained in concentrates are recognised in revenue.
l Cost of sales Cost of sales consists of direct mining costs which include personnel costs, general and administrative costs, energy costs principally diesel fuel and electricity, maintenance and repair costs, operating supplies, external services, third party smelting, refining and transport fees, and depreciation related to sales as well as production taxes and royalty expenses for the period.
Cost of sales is based on average costing for contained or recoverable ounces sold as well as production taxes and royalty expense for the period.
All costs are net of any impairment to reduce inventory to its net realisable value.
m Exploration and evaluation Exploration expenditures Exploration expenditures relate to the initial search for mineral deposits with economic potential as well as expenditures incurred for the purposes of obtaining more information about existing mineral deposits.
Exploration expenditures typically comprise costs that are directly attributable to: researching and analysing existing exploration data: conducting geological studies: exploratory drilling and sampling for the purposes of obtaining core samples and the related metallurgical assay of these cores: and drilling to determine the volume and grade of deposits in an area known to contain mineral resources or for the purposes of converting mineral resources into proven and probable reserves.
Exploration expenditures incurred at greenfield sites sites where the Group does not have any mineral deposits that are already being mined or developed are expensed as incurred.
Exploration expenditures incurred at brownfield sites sites that are adjacent to a mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves and are already being mined or developed are capitalised if the following criteria are met: The drilling is being done in an inferred or measured and indicated resource: and There is an existing proven and probable reserve that is contiguous or adjacent to where the drilling is being done: and It is probable that the resource will be converted to a proven and probable reserve.
The assessment of probability is based on the following factors: results from previous drill programmes: results from a geological study: results from a mine scoping study confirming economic viability of the resource: and preliminary estimates of the volume and grade of the deposit, and the net cash flows expected to be generated from its development.
Costs incurred at brownfield sites that meet the above criteria are capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment mine development costs pursuant to IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment.
All other drilling and related exploration costs incurred at these sites are expensed as mine site exploration.
Exploration expenditures incurred for the purposes of determining additional information on a mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves or for the purposes of extending an existing mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves and is already being mined or developed are also capitalised as mine development costs.
Evaluation expenditures Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential in order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability.
They typically include costs directly attributable to: detailed engineering studies: examination and testing of extraction methods and metallurgical treatment processes: surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: www.
com 128 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued permitting activities: and 2.
Significant accounting policies continued detailed economic evaluations to determine whether development of the reserves is commercially justified, including the preparation of scoping, Concentrate sales pre-feasibility and final feasibility studies.
Concentrate is a processing product containing the valuable ore mineral gold, copper and silver from which most of the waste mineral has been eliminated, that undergoes a smelting process to convert it into gold bullion, copper and silver concentrate.
Under the terms of concentrate sales Evaluation expenditures incurred at greenfield sites are expensed as incurred.
Evaluation expenditures incurred at brownfield sites are expensed contracts with independent smelting companies, gold, copper and silver in concentrate is sold at trailing monthly average spot prices based on as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.
Evaluation expenditures incurred at operating mines development projects are capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment, Revenue is recorded, net of selling costs, at the shipped on board date, which is also when risks and rewards pass to the smelting companies, using Mining properties and development costs, respectively.
market prices on the expected date that final sales prices will be fixed.
Acquired exploration and evaluation properties The embedded derivative is recorded at fair value each period until final settlement occurs, with changes in fair value classified as provisional price Exploration and evaluation stage properties acquired either as an acquisition of individual assets or as part of a business combination are adjustments and included as a component of revenue.
Co-product revenues from the sale of other products, such as copper and silver, contained capitalised as an intangible asset, Acquired exploration and evaluation properties.
Exploration and evaluation stage properties represent in the concentrate are recognised in revenue.
interests in properties that do not have mineralised material classified within proven and probable reserves.
The value of such properties is primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineralised material contained in such properties, including value attributable to the rights to Co-products explore or develop: i a property containing mineralised material classified as a measured, indicated or inferred resource: or ii a prospective Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, contained in concentrates are recognised in revenue.
greenfield property with significant exploration potential.
Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred on such properties subsequent to their acquisition are expensed as incurred until the technical and commercial viability of developing the property has been demonstrated under l Cost of sales the same criteria described above for exploration and evaluation expenditures.
Cost of sales consists of direct mining costs which include personnel costs, general and administrative costs, energy costs principally diesel fuel and electricity, maintenance and repair costs, operating supplies, external services, third party smelting, refining and transport fees, and depreciation n Earnings per share related to sales as well as production taxes and royalty expenses for the period.
Cost of sales is based on average costing for contained or recoverable Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net profit for the period attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average ounces sold as well as production taxes and royalty expense for the period.
All costs are net of any impairment to reduce inventory to its net number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if additional realisable value.
Ordinary Shares are assumed to be issued under securities that entitle their holders to obtain Ordinary Shares in the future.
For stock options, the number of additional shares for inclusion in diluted earnings per share calculations is determined using the treasury stock method.
Under m Exploration and evaluation this method, stock options, whose exercise price is less than the average market price of our Ordinary Shares, are assumed to be exercised and Exploration expenditures the proceeds are used to repurchase Ordinary Shares at the average market price for the period.
The incremental number of Ordinary Shares Exploration expenditures relate to the initial search for mineral deposits with economic potential as well as expenditures incurred for the purposes issued under stock options and repurchased from proceeds is included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
of obtaining more information about existing mineral deposits.
Exploration expenditures typically comprise costs that are directly attributable to: o Inventory researching and analysing existing exploration data: Material extracted from the Groups mines is classified as either ore or waste.
Ore represents material that, at the time of extraction, is expected conducting geological studies: to be processed into a saleable form and sold at a profit.
Waste represents material that is required to be removed to access ore bodies.
Ore is exploratory drilling and sampling for the purposes of obtaining core samples and the related metallurgical assay of these cores: and recorded as an asset that is classified within inventory as material is extracted from the open pit or underground mine.
Ore is accumulated in drilling to determine the volume and grade of deposits in an area known to contain mineral resources or for the purposes of converting stockpiles that are subsequently processed into gold in a saleable form under a mine plan that takes into consideration optimal scheduling of mineral resources into proven and probable reserves.
production of our reserves, present plant capacity, and the market price of gold and copper.
Work in process inventory represents gold, copper and silver in the processing circuit that has not completed the production process, and is not yet in a saleable form.
Finished goods inventory Exploration expenditures incurred at greenfield sites sites where the Group does not have any mineral deposits that are already being mined represents gold in saleable form that has not yet been shipped.
Mine operating supplies represent commodities and other raw materials consumed or developed are expensed as incurred.
Exploration expenditures incurred at brownfield sites sites that are adjacent to a mineral deposit that in the production process, as well as spare parts and other maintenance supplies that are not classified as capital items.
Inventories are valued is classified within proven and probable reserves and are already being mined or developed are capitalised if the following criteria are met: at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with cost being determined on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated by reference The drilling is being done in an inferred or measured and indicated resource: and to the cost of inventory at the beginning of the period together with the cost of inventory produced in a period.
There is an existing proven and probable reserve that is contiguous or adjacent to where the drilling is being done: and Gold, copper and silver ore contained in stockpiles is measured by estimating the number of tonnes added and removed from the stockpile, It is probable that the resource will be converted to a proven and probable reserve.
and the associated estimate of gold contained therein based on assay data and applying estimated metallurgical recovery rates based on the The assessment of probability is based on the following factors: results from previous drill programmes: results from a geological study: results expected processing method.
Stockpile ore tonnages are verified by periodic surveys.
Costs are allocated to ore stockpiles based on quantities from a mine scoping study confirming economic viability of the resource: and preliminary estimates of the volume and grade of the deposit, of material stockpiled using current mining costs incurred up to the point of stockpiling the ore and include: direct labour costs: materials and and the net cash flows expected to be generated from its development.
Costs incurred at brownfield sites that meet the above criteria are capitalised contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction of ore, including an allocation of stripping costs attributable to current as a component of property, plant and equipment mine development costs pursuant to IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment.
All other period production: an allocation of mine site overhead costs: and depreciation of mining properties and property, plant and equipment used drilling and related exploration costs incurred at these sites are expensed as mine site exploration.
Exploration expenditures incurred for the in the extraction of ore, reduced by an allocation of capitalised stripping costs.
As ore is processed, costs are removed based on recoverable purposes of determining additional information on a mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves or for the purposes quantities of gold and the stockpiles average cost per unit.
Ore that is not expected to be processed in the 12 months following the balance of extending an existing mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves and is already being mined or developed are also sheet date is classified as non-current.
capitalised as mine development costs.
Costs capitalised in process and finished goods inventory include: the cost of stockpiles processed: the cost of commodities and raw materials Evaluation expenditures consumed in the production process: direct labour: repair and maintenance costs: energy costs: depreciation of property, plant and equipment Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential used in the production process: and an allocation of mine site overhead costs.
Costs are removed from finished goods inventory and recorded in order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability.
They typically include costs directly attributable to: in cost of sales based on the average cost per ounce of gold, copper and silver sold in the period.
detailed engineering studies: Cost of mine operating supplies is the purchase cost, including allocated freight costs where applicable.
examination and testing of extraction methods and metallurgical treatment processes: surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: annUal report and accoUnts 2011 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Provisions are recorded to reduce ore stockpiles, work in process and finished goods inventory to net realisable value where the net realisable value of the inventory is lower than its cost at each balance sheet date.
Net realisable value is determined with reference to relevant market prices less applicable variable selling expenses.
Provisions recorded also reflect an estimate of the remaining costs of completion to bring the inventory into its saleable form.
Provisions are recorded to reduce mine operating supplies to net realisable value, which is generally calculated by reference to its salvage or scrap value, when it is determined that the supplies are slow moving and or obsolete.
Provisions are reversed to reflect subsequent recoveries in net realisable value where the inventory is still on hand at the balance sheet date.
p Property, plant and equipment Mineral properties and mine development costs Mineral properties and mine development costs are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and applicable accumulated impairment losses.
The acquisition cost of a mineral property is the estimated fair value of proven and probable reserves and measured, indicated and inferred resources acquired as a result of a business combination or asset acquisition.
Capitalised mine development costs include: pre-production stripping costs: production stripping costs that result in a future economic benefit refer to Note 2j for capitalisation criteria for stripping costs : costs incurred to access reserves at underground mining operations: and exploration and evaluation expenditures that result in a probable future economic benefit refer to Note 2m for capitalisation criteria for exploration and evaluation expenditures.
Development costs incurred at underground mines to build new shafts, drifts and ramps that provide physical access to the underground ore are capitalised as incurred.
These costs can be incurred throughout the life of the underground mine.
Plant and equipment Plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation and applicable impairment losses.
Cost includes all expenditures incurred to prepare an asset for its intended use including: the purchase price: brokers commissions: and installation costs including architectural, design and engineering fees, legal fees, survey costs, site preparation costs, freight charges, transportation insurance costs, and duties.
Costs that extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an asset are capitalised.
Costs incurred that do not extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an asset are considered repairs and maintenance and expensed as incurred.
The Group enters into leasing arrangements and arrangements that are in substance leasing arrangements.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
Leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability at an amount equal to the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum lease payments over the term of the lease.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance costs using the effective interest method, whereby a constant rate of interest expense is recognised on the balance of the liability outstanding.
The interest element of the lease is charged to the income statement as a finance expense.
The property, plant and equipment assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Assets under construction Assets in the course of construction at both our development projects and operating mines are capitalised in the assets under construction account.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciation commences.
Development projects are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated impairment losses.
Development projects represent interests in properties that contain proven and probable reserves and where development activities are ongoing.
The cost of development projects is composed of: the estimated fair value of development stage assets acquired as a result of a business combination or an asset acquisition: and costs associated with the construction of tangible assets, such as processing plants, permanent housing facilities and other tangible infrastructure associated with the project.
Assets under construction also contains deposits on long lead items.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation Property, plant and equipment is depreciated, net of residual value, over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter on a straight-line basis.
For mineral properties and mine development costs, the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which is linked to the production level.
Such assets are depreciated on a unit of production basis.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for their intended use.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold, copper and silver extracted from the mine or pit in the period as a percentage of the total quantity of material expected to be extracted in current and future periods based on estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves and, for some mines, mineral resources.
Such non-reserve material may be included in the www.
com 130 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued depreciation calculations where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction and the production of the non-reserve material 2.
Significant accounting policies continued is reflected in the life of mine plan.
Provisions are recorded to reduce ore stockpiles, work in process and finished goods inventory to net realisable value where the net realisable value of the inventory is lower than its cost at each balance sheet date.
Net realisable value is determined with reference to relevant market prices Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an ore body and which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves are depreciated less applicable variable selling expenses.
Provisions recorded also reflect an estimate of the remaining costs of completion to bring the inventory over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of that discrete section.
Discrete sections include capitalised underground development costs into its saleable form.
Provisions are recorded to reduce mine operating supplies to net realisable value, which is generally calculated by reference or production stripping costs incurred for the purposes of providing access to specific ore blocks or areas of the mine and which only provide an to its salvage or scrap value, when it is determined that the supplies are slow moving and or obsolete.
Provisions are reversed to reflect subsequent economic benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area.
Development costs incurred which benefit the entire ore body are depreciated recoveries in net realisable value where the inventory is still on hand at the balance sheet date.
over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of the entire ore body.
p Property, plant and equipment The expected depreciation rates of the major categories of assets are as follows: Mineral properties and mine development costs Mineral properties and mine development costs UOP Mineral properties and mine development costs are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and applicable accumulated impairment losses.
Plant and equipment 4%25% The acquisition cost of a mineral property is the estimated fair value of proven and probable reserves and measured, indicated and inferred resources Underground mobile equipment 14.3%20% acquired as a result of a business combination or asset acquisition.
Capitalised mine development costs include: pre-production stripping costs: Light vehicles and other mobile equipment 33.3%50% production stripping costs that result in a future economic benefit refer to Note 2j for capitalisation criteria for stripping costs : costs incurred to Furniture, computer and office equipment 33.3%50% access reserves at underground mining operations: and exploration and evaluation expenditures that result in a probable future economic benefit refer to Note 2m for capitalisation criteria for exploration and evaluation expenditures.
UOP indicates assets which are depreciated on the basis of units of production UOP, in this case ounces of gold, copper and silver produced in a period divided by the total recoverable reserves and resources of gold, copper and silver expected to be mined based on the current life of mine plans.
Development costs incurred at underground mines to build new shafts, drifts and ramps that provide physical access to the underground ore are Each assets estimated residual value and useful life are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The estimate of residual value capitalised as incurred.
and useful life is based on the physical condition and life limitations of buildings, plant and equipment and the present assessment of economically Plant and equipment recoverable reserves of the mine for the mining property and development cost asset.
Changes to the estimated residual values or useful lives are Plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation and applicable impairment losses.
Cost includes all expenditures incurred accounted for prospectively.
to prepare an asset for its intended use including: the purchase price: brokers commissions: and installation costs including architectural, design q Goodwill and engineering fees, legal fees, survey costs, site preparation costs, freight charges, transportation insurance costs, and duties.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at Costs that extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an asset are capitalised.
Costs incurred that do not extend the productive the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially determined based on provisional fair values.
Fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition capacity or useful economic life of an asset are considered repairs and maintenance and expensed as incurred.
For non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially recorded based on the minorities proportion of the fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment of the Goodwill that is acquired through business combinations is allocated to cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Each of the Groups CGUs that has an allocation of goodwill is also an operating segment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
Leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership as defined by IFRS 8.
Consequently, goodwill is tested for impairment at the individual CGU level.
of the asset to the Group are classified as finance leases.
Goodwill is not amortised: rather it is tested annually for impairment in accordance with accounting policy Note 2s.
Goodwill impairments are Finance leases are recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability at an amount equal to the lower of the fair value of the leased property and not reversible.
the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum lease payments over the term of the lease.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance costs using the effective interest method, whereby a constant rate of interest expense is recognised on the r Intangible assets balance of the liability outstanding.
The property, Intangible assets acquired by way of an asset acquisition or business combination are recognised if the asset is separable or arises from contractual plant and equipment assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
On acquisition of a mineral property in the exploration stage, we All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line prepare an estimate of the fair value attributable to the exploration potential, including mineral resources, if any, of that property.
The fair value of basis over the lease term.
the exploration potential is recorded as an intangible asset acquired exploration potential as at the date of acquisition.
When an exploration stage property moves into development, any acquired exploration intangible asset balance attributable to that property is transferred to non-depreciable Assets under construction mining interests within property, plant and equipment.
Assets in the course of construction at both our development projects and operating mines are capitalised in the assets under construction account.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working Impairment testing and the reversal of impairments are conducted in accordance with accounting policy Note 2s.
condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciation commences.
Development projects s Impairment of non-current assets are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of development projects is composed of: the estimated fair value Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or at any time during the year if an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
of development stage assets acquired as a result of a business combination or an asset acquisition: and costs associated with the construction of tangible assets, such as processing plants, permanent housing facilities and other tangible infrastructure associated with the project.
Assets under We review and test the carrying amounts of intangible assets when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may construction also contains deposits on long lead items.
Depreciation Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated, net of residual value, over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter on a An impairment loss recognised in prior years for non-financial assets other than goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if, there has been a change straight-line basis.
For mineral properties and mine development costs, the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which is in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
This reversal is recognised in linked to the production level.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for their the consolidated statement of income and is limited to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of any depreciation, had no intended use.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold, copper and silver extracted impairment been recognised in prior years.
After such a reversal, any depreciation charge is adjusted prospectively.
from the mine or pit in the period as a percentage of the total quantity of material expected to be extracted in current and future periods based on estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves and, for some mines, mineral resources.
Such non-reserve material may be included in the annUal report and accoUnts 2011 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use VIU being the net present value NPV of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value less costs to sell FVLCS.
Impairment assessments are conducted at the level of CGUs, which is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets.
Each operating mine and development project represents a CGU for impairment testing purposes.
An impairment loss is recognised for any excess of carrying amount of a CGU over its recoverable amount.
The FVLCS of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
There is no active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCS is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
Cost to sell is based on managements best estimates of future selling costs at the time of calculating FVLCS.
Costs attributable to the sale of a CGU are not considered significant.
The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM plan for each CGU, which are generally updated in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year.
The Groups LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves and convertible resources and are based on detailed research, analysis and modelling to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGU.
As such, these plans consider the optimal level of investment, overall production levels and sequence of extraction taking into account all relevant characteristics of the ore body, including waste-to-ore tonnes, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties impacting process recoveries and capacities of available extraction, haulage and processing equipment.
Projected future revenues reflect the forecasted future production levels at each CGU as detailed in the LOM plans.
Included in these forecasts is the production of mineral resources that do not currently qualify for inclusion in proven and probable ore reserves where there is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
This is consistent with the approach that a market participant would utilise in preparing a forecast of expected production levels.
Projected future revenues also reflect the Groups estimate of long-term gold prices, which is determined based on current prices, an analysis of the expected total production costs of producers and forward pricing curves and forecasts of expected long-term prices prepared by research analysts.
These estimates often differ from current price levels, but this methodology is consistent with how a market participant would assess long-term gold prices.
The estimates of future cash costs of production and capital expenditures are derived from the LOM plans for each CGU.
Costs incurred in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars using expected long-term exchange rates based on the relevant forward pricing curve for that currency.
Oil prices are a significant component, both directly and indirectly, of the expected cash costs of production.
Estimates for long-term oil prices used in the LOM plans are based on the current spot price, the forward pricing curve and long-term oil price forecasts prepared by analysts.
The discount rate applied to present value is based upon the real weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU.
The discount rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact of the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated with the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGU is located.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit default swap spreads for the period.
In determining FVLCS, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of each CGU.
Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation that is based on a multiple of their underlying NPV.
Consequently, a market participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when estimating the fair value of a gold property.
The NPV multiples utilised in the determination of the FVLCS of a CGU consider the NPV multiples observed in comparable companies.
These observed multiples are primarily derived from research analyst reports and take into consideration the following: i estimate of underlying NPV prepared by the analyst: ii estimate of target market capitalisation prepared by the analyst: iii market capitalisation on the date of the analyst report: and iv market capitalisation on the date of the impairment test.
The NPV multiple applied also takes into consideration the remaining economic life of the CGU.
For CGUs with a remaining economic life of five years or less, an NPV multiple on the lower end of the observed multiple range is utilised.
For other CGUs, the median observed NPV multiple is utilised.
The VIU of a CGU is generally lower than its FVLCS, due primarily to the application of a market multiple to the underlying NPV of a CGU when determining its FVLCS.
Consequently, the recoverable amount of a CGU for impairment testing purposes is determined based on its FVLCS.
t Contributed surplus The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when the transfer of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation was completed.
Contributed surplus represents the difference between the cumulative investment in the entities and businesses which form part of the consolidated African Barrick Gold plc Group and non-controlling interests.
u Share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
com 132 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued v Provisions The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use VIU being the net present value NPV of future Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value less costs to sell FVLCS.
Impairment assessments are conducted at the level of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time of CGUs, which is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets.
Each operating mine value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market and development project represents a CGU for impairment testing purposes.
An impairment loss is recognised for any excess of carrying amount assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the of a CGU over its recoverable amount.
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
There is no Rehabilitation costs active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCS is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future cash flows The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group normally give rise to obligations for environmental rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
Cost to sell is based on managements best estimates of future selling costs at the works can include facility decommissioning and dismantling: removal or treatment of waste materials: and site and land rehabilitation.
The extent time of calculating FVLCS.
of work required and the associated costs are dependent on the requirements of relevant authorities and the Groups environmental policies.
The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of production Provisions for the cost of each rehabilitation programme are recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When the extent of disturbance and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM plan for each CGU, which are generally updated in the fourth quarter of each increases over the life of an operation, the provision is increased accordingly.
The major parts of the carrying amount of provisions relate to tailings fiscal year.
The Groups LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves and convertible resources and are based on detailed research, analysis pond closure rehabilitation: demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines.
and modelling to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGU.
As such, these plans consider the optimal level of investment, overall Costs included in the provision encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected to occur progressively over the life of the operation and at the production levels and sequence of extraction taking into account all relevant characteristics of the ore body, including waste-to-ore tonnes, ore time of closure in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Estimated costs included in the determination of the provision reflect the risks and grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties impacting process recoveries and capacities of available extraction, haulage and probabilities of alternative estimates of cash flows required to settle the obligation at each particular operation.
Routine operating costs that may impact processing equipment.
the ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, such as waste material handling conducted as an integral part of a mining or production process, are not included in the provision.
Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised Projected future revenues reflect the forecasted future production levels at each CGU as detailed in the LOM plans.
Included in these forecasts as an expense and liability when the event occurs that gives rise to an obligation and reliable estimates of the required rehabilitation costs can be made.
is the production of mineral resources that do not currently qualify for inclusion in proven and probable ore reserves where there is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
This is consistent with the approach that a market participant would utilise in preparing a forecast The timing of the actual rehabilitation expenditure is dependent upon a number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the operating of expected production levels.
Projected future revenues also reflect the Groups estimate of long-term gold prices, which is determined based licence conditions and the environment in which the mine operates.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an on current prices, an analysis of the expected total production costs of producers and forward pricing curves and forecasts of expected long-term extended period of time depending on rehabilitation requirements.
The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid over periods of up prices prepared by research analysts.
These estimates often differ from current price levels, but this methodology is consistent with how a market to 30 years with some payments into perpetuity.
Rehabilitation provisions are measured at the expected value of future cash flows, discounted to participant would assess long-term gold prices.
their present value using a current, market-based estimate of the real risk-free pre-tax discount rates.
The unwinding of the discount is included in finance expense and results in an increase in the amount of the provision.
Provisions are updated each reporting period for the effect of a change The estimates of future cash costs of production and capital expenditures are derived from the LOM plans for each CGU.
Costs incurred in in the discount rate and the change in estimate is added or deducted from the related asset and depreciated prospectively over the assets useful life.
currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars using expected long-term exchange rates based on the relevant forward pricing curve for that currency.
Estimates for Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of the associated cash long-term oil prices used in the LOM plans are based on the current spot price, the forward pricing curve and long-term oil price forecasts prepared flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, Group environmental by analysts.
policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
The discount rate reflects When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part of the equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact of the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated with the relevant cash cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised in property, flows based on the country in which the CGU is located.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk premiums, historical country risk plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.
premiums and average credit default swap spreads for the period.
It is possible that managements estimates of provisions could change as a result of changes in regulations, the extent of rehabilitation required, and In determining FVLCS, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of each CGU.
Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation that is the means of reclamation or cost estimates.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted as a result of changes in estimates.
Those adjustments are accounted based on a multiple of their underlying NPV.
Consequently, a market participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when estimating the for as a change in the corresponding value of the related asset, except where a reduction in the provision is greater than the remaining net book value fair value of a gold property.
The NPV multiples utilised in the determination of the FVLCS of a CGU consider the NPV multiples observed in of the related assets, in which case the value is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment is recognised in the income statement.
In the case of closed comparable companies.
These observed multiples are primarily derived from research analyst reports and take into consideration the following: sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes to the capitalised cost result in an adjustment to future i estimate of underlying NPV prepared by the analyst: ii estimate of target market capitalisation prepared by the analyst: iii market capitalisation depreciation and finance expense.
On an annual basis, the Group reviews for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
on the date of the analyst report: and iv market capitalisation on the date of the impairment test.
For CGUs with a remaining economic life of five years or less, an NPV multiple on the w Employee benefits lower end of the observed multiple range is utilised.
The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan the Stock Option Plan, a long-term incentive plan the LTIP and a legacy restricted share unit plan the Legacy RSU Plan.
Stock-based compensation Issue of Stock Options t Contributed surplus Stock options can be granted under either the Company LTIP or the Stock Option Plan.
The Company receives services from employees The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when the transfer as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation was completed.
Contributed surplus represents the difference between the of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: cumulative investment in the entities and businesses which form part of the consolidated African Barrick Gold plc Group and non-controlling interests.
including any market performance conditions: u Share capital excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as excluding the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the requirement for employees to save.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares or procure the transfer of existing shares to satisfy the exercise.
Where shares are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
LTIP The Company has a cash-settled, Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for select employees.
Under the terms of the RSU plan, selected employees are granted RSUs where each RSU has a value equal to one Ordinary Share of the Company.
RSUs vest over a two-and-a-half or three-year period and are settled in cash.
Additional RSUs are credited to reflect dividends paid on Ordinary Shares of the Company during the vesting period with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
A liability for RSUs is measured at fair value on the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
At the grant date the fair value of the awards is determined from the market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any market based vesting conditions attached to the award e. g. relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Changes in the fair value of the RSU liability, due to changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded each period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
Compensation expenses recognised for RSUs incorporate an estimate for expected forfeiture rates.
The expected forfeiture is estimated based on historical forfeiture rates of the Group pre-IPO and expectations of future forfeiture rates.
Adjustments to compensation expense are recognised in periods where the actual forfeiture rate differs from the expected rate.
Legacy RSU Plan Historically, the Barrick Group has maintained a Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for select employees who now work for the Group.
This plan operates in an incidental manner to the Company RSU plan.
These existing legacy restricted share units will continue to be administered and accounted for based on the movement of the fair value of the Barrick Ordinary Share for recording of liabilities and compensation expense.
Defined contribution plan The Groups Tanzanian employees are members of either the National Social Security Fund NSSF or of the Parastatal Pension Fund PPF, which are defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contribution if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to the employee service in the current and prior periods.
The Group and employees both contribute 10% of the employees gross salaries to the schemes.
The contributions are charged to the income statement when they are due.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to their present value.
Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where it is contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Other entitlements The estimated monetary liability for employees accrued annual leave entitlement at the balance sheet date is recognised as an expense accrual.
x Financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents include cash, and money market funds.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale.
These are initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities www.
com 134 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets, where the receivables are discounted and held at their 2.
Significant accounting policies continued net present value.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At the end of each reporting period, Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, other assets and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the expected cash When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares or procure the transfer of existing shares to satisfy the exercise.
Where shares flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium provision is recognised in the income statement.
when the options are exercised.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, Derivatives is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature LTIP of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: The Company has a cash-settled, Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for select employees.
Under the terms of the RSU plan, selected employees are a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : granted RSUs where each RSU has a value equal to one Ordinary Share of the Company.
RSUs vest over a two-and-a-half or three-year period and b hedges of the income cost of a highly probable forecast transaction or commitment cash flow hedge : or are settled in cash.
Additional RSUs are credited to reflect dividends paid on Ordinary Shares of the Company during the vesting period with a c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
At the grant date the fair value of the awards is determined The Group documents at inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk from the market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any market based vesting conditions attached to the award e. g. relative Total management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Changes in the fair value of the RSU liability, due to changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes are recorded each period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
Compensation expenses recognised for RSUs incorporate an in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
estimate for expected forfeiture rates.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 28.
Movements in the hedging reserve are shown in other comprehensive income.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining Legacy RSU Plan maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than Historically, the Barrick Group has maintained a Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for select employees who now work for the Group.
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
plan operates in an incidental manner to the Company RSU plan.
a Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any Defined contribution plan changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion is The Groups Tanzanian employees are members of either the National Social Security Fund NSSF or of the Parastatal Pension Fund PPF, recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement which are defined contribution plans.
within other gains losses net.
Changes in the fair value of the hedge attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contribution if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the within finance costs.
benefits relating to the employee service in the current and prior periods.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee b Cash flow hedge accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance other gains losses net.
sheet date are discounted to their present value.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the Bonus plans forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion is recognised in the income statement.
However, when The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where it is contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or fixed assets, the gains and a constructive obligation.
losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in cost of goods sold in the case of inventory or in depreciation in the case of fixed assets.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
x Financial instruments When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement within other gains losses net.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents include c Net investment hedge cash, and money market funds.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Loans and receivables The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale.
These are initially recognised at fair Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities annUal report and accoUnts 2011 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
Financial liabilities Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
y Finance income and finance expense Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest is recognised as a borrowing cost on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs that relate directly to the construction of property, plant and equipment during the time that it is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
z Taxes The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: Where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: Where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
com 136 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that 2.
Significant accounting policies continued future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued, have been measured using the Financial liabilities single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
To the extent against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional Indirect tax right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax y Finance income and finance expense regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions or receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the or received from the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, the balance sheet date.
If the receivable is expected to be received in more than 12 months from year-end, the receivable is discounted and held at and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Amounts expected to be payable or receivable in more than 12 months are classified as non-current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
Borrowing costs that relate directly to the construction of property, plant and equipment during the time that it is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use are aa Royalties capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are in place at each operating mine.
The primary type of royalty is a net smelter return z Taxes NSR royalty.
Under this type of royalty the Group pays the holder an amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied by the value of gold production at market gold prices less third party smelting, refining and transportation costs.
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income The North Mara mine is also subject to a land royalty land tenements LT based on the net revenue derived from the open pit mines.
or directly in equity, respectively.
Royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale of gold, copper and silver production is recognised.
Current income tax The following percentages apply: Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is Bulyanhulu 3% NSR subject to interpretation.
The tax rates Tulawaka 3% NSR and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
North Mara Nyabirama and Nyabigena pits 3% NSR, 1% LT Deferred income tax North Mara Gokona pit 3% NSR, 1.1% LT Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and Buzwagi 3% NSR, 30% NPI liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates enacted or substantively The NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after all capital, exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the Buzwagi mine have enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are been recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
No amount is currently payable.
recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
bb Leases Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments Where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and period of the lease.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: in other liabilities.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant Where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the cc Dividend distribution extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segment reporting The Group has only one primary product produced in a single geographic location, being gold produced in Tanzania.
In addition the Group produces copper and silver as a co-product.
Reportable operating segments are based on the internal reports provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to evaluate segment performance, decide how to allocate resources and make other operating decisions.
After applying the aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds contained in IFRS 8, the Groups reportable operating segments were determined to be: North Mara gold mine: Tulawaka gold mine: Bulyanhulu gold mine: Buzwagi gold mine: and a separate Corporate and Exploration segment, which primarily consists of costs related to corporate administration and exploration and evaluation activities Other.
Segment results and assets include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, inventories, other assets and receivables.
Capital expenditures comprise additions to property, plant and equipment.
Segment liabilities are not reported since they are not considered by the CODM as material to segment performance.
The Group has also included segment cash costs.
Segment information for the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 is set out below.
com 138 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 3.
Segment reporting in thousands of United States dollars except references to ounces North Mara Tulawaka Bulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total The Group has only one primary product produced in a single geographic location, being gold produced in Tanzania.
In addition the Group Gold revenue 268,762 78,499 327,847 246,194 921,302 produces copper and silver as a co-product.
Reportable operating segments are based on the internal reports provided to the Chief Operating Co-product revenue 804 148 31,977 20,790 53,719 Decision Maker CODM to evaluate segment performance, decide how to allocate resources and make other operating decisions.
After applying Total segment revenue 269,566 78,647 359,824 266,984 975,021 the aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds contained in IFRS 8, the Groups reportable operating segments were determined to be: 1 Segment cash operating cost 103,983 45,450 173,491 156,600 50,297 529,821 North Mara gold mine: Tulawaka gold mine: Bulyanhulu gold mine: Buzwagi gold mine: and a separate Corporate and Exploration segment, Other charges and corporate social which primarily consists of costs related to corporate administration and exploration and evaluation activities Other.
responsibility expenses 12,743 5,865 5,100 14,408 353 26,033 Segment results and assets include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment 2 EBITDA 152,840 39,062 181,233 95,976 49,944 419,167 assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, inventories, other assets and receivables.
Capital expenditures comprise additions to Depreciation and amortisation 28,018 10,622 28,386 39,087 3,402 109,515 property, plant and equipment.
Segment liabilities are not reported since they are not considered by the CODM as material to segment 2 EBIT 124,822 28,440 152,847 56,889 53,346 309,652 performance.
Total segment finance income 1,202 Segment information for the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 is set Total segment finance expense 1,777 out below.
Consequently, the Group has reported these costs in this manner.
Expansionary 47,381 8,346 6,626 920 63,273 5 2 These are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS.
Refer to Non IFRS measures on page 50 for definitions.
Rehabilitation asset addition 18,791 10,953 13,309 9,708 52,761 4 Reflects the adjustment for non-controlling interests at Tulawaka.
Total capital expenditure 123,146 31,652 95,432 83,203 11,802 345,235 5 The prior year segment capital expenditure has been restated to separately reflect capitalised development.
Revenue For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Gold dor sales 699,843 576,839 1 Gold concentrate sales 450,182 344,463 1 Copper concentrate sales 57,529 47,279 Silver sales 10,361 6,440 Total 1,217,915 975,021 1 Gold and copper concentrate sales includes provisional price adjustments to the accounts receivable balance due to changes in market gold and copper prices prior to final settlement as follows: US$5.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: US$3.2 million.
For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 2 Revenue by location of customer Europe Switzerland 702,563 576,839 Germany 88,054 32,491 Asia China 290,469 298,676 Japan 136,829 67,015 Total revenue 1,217,915 975,021 2 Revenue by location of customer is determined based on the country to which the gold is delivered.
Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2011 are revenues of approximately US$1,130 million 2010: US$656 million which arose from sales to four of the Groups largest customers.
No other customers individually account for more than 10% of the Groups revenues.
During the first quarter of 2010 all gold dor sales were made to BIBC, a related party 2010: US$185 million.
Cost of sales For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 1 Direct mining costs 510,465 427,667 Third party smelting costs 21,400 20,308 2 Depreciation 134,149 109,515 Royalty expense 38,100 31,549 3 Total 704,114 589,039 1 Direct mining costs have been restated in the prior year to separately reflect the costs related to third party smelting.
2 Depreciation includes the depreciation component relating to the cost of inventory sold.
3 Cost of sales less depreciation equals cash operating costs.
com 140 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Employee benefits For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Gold dor sales 699,843 576,839 Wages and salaries 154,710 113,221 1 1 Gold concentrate sales 450,182 344,463 Other employee benefits 67,496 51,193 1 2 Copper concentrate sales 57,529 47,279 Stock-based compensation charge 1,735 3,756 Silver sales 10,361 6,440 Total 223,941 168,170 Total 1,217,915 975,021 1 Other employee benefits include bonuses, leave pay, medical expenses, severance costs and other benefits.
1 Gold and copper concentrate sales includes provisional price adjustments to the accounts receivable balance due to changes in market gold and copper prices prior to final settlement as 2 Further details of the Groups stock options and other stock-based compensation plans are provided in Note 23. follows: US$5.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: US$3.2 million.
Average number of employees For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December For the year ended For the year ended in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 31 December 31 December 2 Revenue by location of customer 2011 2010 Europe Operations 4,879 4,351 Switzerland 702,563 576,839 Administration 303 226 Germany 88,054 32,491 Total average headcount 5,182 4,577 Asia China 290,469 298,676 7.
Exploration and evaluation Japan 136,829 67,015 The following represents a summary of exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred at each mine site and significant exploration targets Total revenue 1,217,915 975,021 if applicable.
2 Revenue by location of customer is determined based on the country to which the gold is delivered.
For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2011 are revenues of approximately US$1,130 million 2010: US$656 million which in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 arose from sales to four of the Groups largest customers.
Expensed during the year: During the first quarter of 2010 all gold dor sales were made to BIBC, a related party 2010: US$185 million.
Cost of sales Tulawaka 531 2,343 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December Bulyanhulu 1,250 419 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 1 Other 23,081 12,099 1 Direct mining costs 510,465 427,667 Total expensed 30,339 14,861 Third party smelting costs 21,400 20,308 Capitalised during the year: 2 Depreciation 134,149 109,515 North Mara 14,329 8,065 Royalty expense 38,100 31,549 Buzwagi 314 973 3 Total 704,114 589,039 Tulawaka 2,880 2,758 1 Direct mining costs have been restated in the prior year to separately reflect the costs related to third party smelting.
Bulyanhulu 231 357 2 Depreciation includes the depreciation component relating to the cost of inventory sold.
Total capitalised 17,754 12,153 3 Cost of sales less depreciation equals cash operating costs.
Total 48,093 27,014 1 Included in other are the exploration activities conducted through Barrick Exploration Africa Ltd. All primary greenfield exploration and evaluation activities are conducted in this Company.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Other charges For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Other expenses Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 179 90 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 6,808 Severance payments 1,646 Foreign exchange losses net 6,001 7,863 Unrealised non-hedge derivative losses 3,658 Construction and consumable inventory write-down 4,684 Bad debt expense 1,098 Asset write-downs 1,252 Transaction cost associated with listing 2,575 Insurance 1,840 Buzwagi fuel claim provision 2,539 Disallowed indirect taxes 7,123 Other 1,696 3,577 1 Total 23,679 28,950 Other income Insurance proceeds 4,535 Unrealised non-hedge derivative gains 7,901 Other 139 1,849 Total 8,040 6,384 Total other charges 15,639 22,566 1 Corporate social responsibility expenses previously included in other charges have been disclosed separately on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Auditors remuneration During the year the Group including its subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor s : For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Audit fees Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 464 384 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 518 547 Other services pursuant to legislation 309 295 Tax services 157 202 1 Other services in connection with the capital raising 1,314 Other services in connection with the Tanzanian dual listing 30 Other services 61 Total 1,539 2,742 1 The majority of capital raising costs paid were capitalised against Share Premium.
com 142 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Finance income and finance expense For the year ended For the year ended a Finance income 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December Other expenses in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 179 90 Interest on time deposits 1,030 720 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 6,808 Other 454 482 Severance payments 1,646 Total 1,484 1,202 Foreign exchange losses net 6,001 7,863 Unrealised non-hedge derivative losses 3,658 b Finance expense Construction and consumable inventory write-down 4,684 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December Bad debt expense 1,098 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Asset write-downs 1,252 1 Unwinding of discount 3,344 1,365 Transaction cost associated with listing 2,575 Interest on bank overdraft 199 202 Insurance 1,840 2 Revolving credit facility charges 4,570 209 Buzwagi fuel claim provision 2,539 Other 612 1 Disallowed indirect taxes 7,123 3 Total 8,725 1,777 Other 1,696 3,577 1 The unwinding of discount is calculated on the environmental rehabilitation provision presented in Note 25.
1 Total 23,679 28,950 2 Included in credit facility charges are the amortisation of the fees related to the revolving credit facility as well as the monthly interest and facility fees, refer to Note 27.
3 For cash flow purposes unwinding of discount is excluded from the finance expense movement.
Tax expense Unrealised non-hedge derivative gains 7,901 For the year ended For the year ended Other 139 1,849 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Total 8,040 6,384 Current tax: Current tax on profits for the year 10,162 291 Total other charges 15,639 22,566 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 28,663 1 Corporate social responsibility expenses previously included in other charges have been disclosed separately on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Total current tax 38,825 291 Deferred tax: 9.
Auditors remuneration Origination and reversal of temporary differences 79,099 86,180 During the year the Group including its subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor s : Total deferred tax 79,099 86,180 For the year ended For the year ended Income tax expense 117,924 86,471 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 1 During the year, a binding Memorandum of Settlement with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA was executed to address the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and value added taxation.
The terms of the Memorandum of Settlement allow the Group to offset income tax payable against outstanding refunds for VAT and Audit fees fuel levies.
As a result of these changes, PML, which is the taxpaying entity holding Tulawaka and Buzwagi, has agreed to treat both mines as separate tax entities and in the absence of the Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 464 384 capital expenditure deduction in Buzwagi, the Tulawaka mine has prior year taxable profits which can be immediately paid by offsetting against the indirect tax receivable balance owing to the Group.
This resulted in a corporate tax charge for prior years of US$28.7 million which was offset by a corresponding deferred tax income adjustment of US$28.7 million.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 518 547 The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the Other services pursuant to legislation 309 295 profits of the consolidated entities as follows: Tax services 157 202 For the year ended For the year ended 1 Other services in connection with the capital raising 1,314 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Other services in connection with the Tanzanian dual listing 30 Profit before taxation 402,701 309,077 Other services 61 Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 114,199 88,186 Total 1,539 2,742 Tax effects of: 1 The majority of capital raising costs paid were capitalised against Share Premium.
Non-taxable income 1,219 2,908 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 7,302 4,347 Prior year adjustments 2,391 2,201 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 33 63 Other 890 Tax charge 117,924 86,471 The tax rate in Tanzania is 30% and in South Africa 28% for both years presented.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Tax expense continued Tax periods remain open to review by the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of tax periods remain open to review by tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has dilutive potential Ordinary Shares in the form of stock options.
The weighted average number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of stock options.
At 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Earnings Net profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 274,895 218,103 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499 Adjusted for dilutive effect of: Stock options 10,606 18,482 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 410,096,105 410,103,981 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share from continuing operations cents 67.0 53.2 Dilutive earnings per share from continuing operations cents 67.0 53.2 13.
Dividends The final dividend declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 of US$15.2 million US3.7 cents per share and the 2011 interim dividend of US$13.1 million US3.2 cents per share 2010: US$6.6 million US1.6 cents per share were paid during 2011 and recognised in the financial statements.
Refer to Note 35 for details of the final dividend declared subsequent to year-end.
Cash flow other items a Operating cash flows other items Adjustments for working capital items For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Trade receivables 29,356 2,384 1 Inventories 97,873 18,446 2 Other current assets 7,238 48,802 3 Other liabilities 3,924 6,527 4 Trade and other payables 41,833 28,513 Working capital adjustments relating to Tusker acquisition 3,734 5 Other working capital items 5,034 6,336 Total 42,880 84,248 1 The inventory adjustment includes the movement in current as well as the non-current portion of inventory.
2 In September 2011, a Memorandum of Settlement was agreed with the Tanzanian Government regarding the indirect tax receivable.
The settlement agreement allows for the offset of income taxes payable from the indirect taxes receivable.
The reduction of US$35.7 million in the indirect taxes receivable includes an offset of income taxes payable by Tulawaka US$33.9 million.
3 The other liabilities adjustment includes the movement in both other current and other non-current liabilities.
4 The trade and other payables adjustment excludes statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
5 Other working capital items include exchange losses associated with working capital, as well as once-off working capital adjustments relating to minority interest and funding intercompany settlements.
com 144 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Other non-cash items 11.
Tax expense continued For the year ended For the year ended Tax periods remain open to review by the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA in respect of income taxes for five years following the date 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 of the filing of the corporate tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties Adjustments for non-cash income statement items: and interest.
Because a number of tax periods remain open to review by tax Foreign exchange losses 5,034 7,585 authorities, there is a risk that transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
Provision added 67 Unrealised gain loss on non-hedge derivatives 7,901 3,658 12.
Earnings per share Stock option expense 1,401 640 Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted Other non-cash items 205 443 average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
Exchange loss on revaluation of cash balances 967 278 Total 704 11,785 Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The weighted average b Investing cash flows other items number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of stock options.
For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December At 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 For the year ended For the year ended Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment 1,602 183 31 December 31 December Other long-term receivables 2,103 4,033 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Village housing receivable 145 135 Earnings Tusker options movement 9,696 Net profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 274,895 218,103 Settlement of provisions 3,530 6 Total 320 13,411 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499 Adjusted for dilutive effect of: 6 The movement in the rehabilitation liability previously included in the investing cash flows has been restated.
The movement and the corresponding increase in property, plant and equipment have been excluded from the cash flow statement due to the fact that it is a non-cash movement.
Stock options 10,606 18,482 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 410,096,105 410,103,981 15.
Inventories As at As at Earnings per share 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations cents 67.0 53.2 Raw materials Dilutive earnings per share from continuing operations cents 67.0 53.2 Ore in stockpiles 56,052 34,412 Mine operating supplies 215,733 140,411 13.
Dividends Work in process 30,397 36,568 The final dividend declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 of US$15.2 million US3.7 cents per share and the 2011 interim Finished products dividend of US$13.1 million US3.2 cents per share 2010: US$6.6 million US1.6 cents per share were paid during 2011 and recognised in Gold dor bullion 9,912 5,936 the financial statements.
Gold, copper and silver concentrate 4,853 10,647 14.
Cash flow other items Total current portion of inventory 316,947 227,974 1 Non-current ore in stockpiles 78,022 69,122 a Operating cash flows other items Total 394,969 297,096 Adjustments for working capital items 1 During 2011 US$78 million 2010: US$69.1 million of ore at Buzwagi and North Mara was classified as long-term following managements assessment that these stockpiles will be processed For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December after 2012. in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to US$152.7 million 2010: US$132.0 million.
Trade receivables 29,356 2,384 1 Inventories 97,873 18,446 2 Other current assets 7,238 48,802 3 Other liabilities 3,924 6,527 4 Trade and other payables 41,833 28,513 Working capital adjustments relating to Tusker acquisition 3,734 5 Other working capital items 5,034 6,336 Total 42,880 84,248 1 The inventory adjustment includes the movement in current as well as the non-current portion of inventory.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other current assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Trade and other receivables: 1 Amounts due from dor and concentrate sales 21,053 46,491 2 Other receivables 9,157 11,621 Due from related parties Note 32 354 2,131 Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables 706 1,029 Total 29,858 59,214 1 An agreement was concluded with a financial institution which gives the Group the option to factor certain concentrate receivables in order to reduce the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk and to reduce the Groups investment in trade receivables.
Under this agreement, concentrate receivables are advanced by the institution in exchange for a discount fee of 200 basis points per annum for the discount period.
The institution has no recourse against the Group for changes in pricing from the time it was advanced.
At 31 December 2011, receivables to the value of US$36.6 million 2010: Nil were advanced under this agreement.
2 Other receivables relates to employee and supplier backcharge-related receivables.
Trade receivables other than concentrate receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms.
Concentrate receivables are generally on 60-120 day terms depending on the terms per contract.
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
The carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provisions for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Other current assets: 3 Current portion of indirect tax receivables 22,370 58,048 4 Other debtors and advance payments 10,593 12,055 Insurance receivable 308 325 Total 33,271 70,428 3 The total indirect tax receivable is US$85.3 million of which US$63.0 million is included in non-current assets.
This receivable is due from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority and it is anticipated to be offset against future corporation income tax payments.
To reflect the time value of money the long-term portion of this receivable has been discounted at a rate of 5% 2010: 5.7%.
In September 2011, a Memorandum of Settlement was agreed with the Tanzanian Government regarding the indirect tax receivable.
The settlement agreement allows the offset of taxes payable and payable in future from the indirect taxes receivable.
The reduction of US$35.9 million in the indirect taxes receivable includes an offset of taxes payable by Tulawaka of US$33.9 million.
4 Other debtors and advance payments relate primarily to prepayments for insurance and income taxes offset against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Cash at bank and on hand 252,988 389,158 Money market funds 331,166 11,854 Total 584,154 401,012 www.
com 146 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other current assets 18.
Property, plant and equipment As at As at Mineral properties For the year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 31 December Plant and and mine Assets under 1 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 in thousands of United States dollars equipment development costs construction Total Trade and other receivables: At 1 January 2011, net of accumulated depreciation 796,999 693,834 124,285 1,615,118 1 Amounts due from dor and concentrate sales 21,053 46,491 Additions 345,235 345,235 2 Other receivables 9,157 11,621 Disposals write-downs 1,423 1,423 Due from related parties Note 32 354 2,131 Depreciation 95,336 40,347 135,683 Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables 706 1,029 Transfers between categories 194,629 112,032 306,661 Total 29,858 59,214 At 31 December 2011 894,869 765,519 162,859 1,823,247 1 An agreement was concluded with a financial institution which gives the Group the option to factor certain concentrate receivables in order to reduce the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk and to reduce the Groups investment in trade receivables.
Under this agreement, concentrate receivables are advanced by the institution in exchange for a discount fee of At 1 January 2011 200 basis points per annum for the discount period.
At 31 December 2011, Cost 1,125,072 1,005,279 124,285 2,254,636 receivables to the value of US$36.6 million 2010: Nil were advanced under this agreement.
Accumulated depreciation 328,073 311,445 639,518 2 Other receivables relates to employee and supplier backcharge-related receivables.
Net carrying amount 796,999 693,834 124,285 1,615,118 Trade receivables other than concentrate receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms.
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course At 31 December 2011 of business.
Cost 1,316,602 1,117,311 162,859 2,596,772 The carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does Accumulated depreciation 421,733 351,792 773,525 not hold any collateral as security.
Net carrying amount 894,869 765,519 162,859 1,823,247 Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provisions for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will Mineral properties not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 Plant and and mine Assets under 1 in thousands of United States dollars equipment development costs construction Total As at As at 31 December 31 December At 1 January 2010, net of accumulated depreciation 784,122 625,030 88,920 1,498,072 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Additions 224,391 224,391 Other current assets: Disposals write-downs 273 273 3 Current portion of indirect tax receivables 22,370 58,048 Depreciation 45,839 61,233 107,072 4 Other debtors and advance payments 10,593 12,055 Transfers between categories 58,989 130,037 189,026 Insurance receivable 308 325 At 31 December 2010 796,999 693,834 124,285 1,615,118 Total 33,271 70,428 3 The total indirect tax receivable is US$85.3 million of which US$63.0 million is included in non-current assets.
This receivable is due from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority and it is At 1 January 2010 anticipated to be offset against future corporation income tax payments.
The settlement agreement allows the Cost 1,067,766 875,242 88,920 2,031,928 offset of taxes payable and payable in future from the indirect taxes receivable.
The reduction of US$35.9 million in the indirect taxes receivable includes an offset of taxes payable by Accumulated depreciation 283,644 250,212 533,856 Tulawaka of US$33.9 million.
Net carrying amount 784,122 625,030 88,920 1,498,072 4 Other debtors and advance payments relate primarily to prepayments for insurance and income taxes offset against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies.
At 31 December 2010, net of accumulated depreciation 17.
Cash and cash equivalents Cost 1,125,072 1,005,279 124,285 2,254,636 As at As at 31 December 31 December Accumulated depreciation 328,073 311,445 639,518 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Net carrying amount 796,999 693,834 124,285 1,615,118 Cash at bank and on hand 252,988 389,158 1 Assets under construction represents a sustaining capital expenditures incurred constructing tangible fixed assets related to operating mines and advance deposits made towards the Money market funds 331,166 11,854 purchase of tangible fixed assets: and b expansionary expenditure allocated to a project on a business combination or asset acquisition, and the subsequent costs incurred to develop Total 584,154 401,012 the mine.
Once these assets are ready for their intended use, the balance is transferred to plant and equipment, and or mineral properties and mine development costs.
Leases Property, plant and equipment includes assets relating to the design and construction costs of power transmission lines and related infrastructure.
At completion, ownership was transferred to TANESCO in exchange for amortised repayment in the form of reduced electricity supply charges.
No future lease payment obligations are payable under these finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment also includes emergency back-up generators leased at Buzwagi mine under a three year lease agreement, with an option to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term.
The lease has been classified as a finance lease.
Property, plant and equipment further includes spinning power generators leased at Buzwagi mine under a one year lease agreement, with an option to extend the lease for 36 months and an option to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Property, plant and equipment continued The following amounts were included in property, plant and equipment where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Cost capitalised finance leases 67,223 46,822 Accumulated depreciation 7,582 4,203 Net carrying amount 59,641 42,619 19.
Goodwill and intangible assets Acquired exploration For the year ended 31 December 2011 and evaluation in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total 1 Opening net book amount 178,420 80,093 258,513 Additions Closing net book value 178,420 80,093 258,513 At 31 December 2011 Cost 394,898 80,093 474,991 Accumulated impairment 216,478 216,478 Net book amount 178,420 80,093 258,513 Acquired exploration For the year ended 31 December 2010 and evaluation in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total Opening net book amount 156,397 156,397 Additions 22,023 80,093 102,116 Closing net book value 178,420 80,093 258,513 At 31 December 2010 Cost 394,898 80,093 474,991 Accumulated impairment 216,478 216,478 Net book amount 178,420 80,093 258,513 1 The Groups opening goodwill arose from Pre-IPO acquisitions by Barrick Gold Corporation and African Barrick Gold acquisition of Tusker Gold Ltd on 27 April 2010.
The goodwill allocated to the Group has been presented as if the Group acquired this business as of the acquisition date.
com 148 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued In accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets a review for impairment of goodwill was undertaken.
The review compared the recoverable amount 18.
Property, plant and equipment continued for goodwill for each cash generating unit CGU to the carrying value of the CGU including goodwill.
The key economic assumptions used in this The following amounts were included in property, plant and equipment where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: review were: As at As at 31 December 31 December For the year ended For the year ended in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Cost capitalised finance leases 67,223 46,822 2 Long-term gold price per ounce $1,600 $1,150 Accumulated depreciation 7,582 4,203 3 South African Rand US$:ZAR 7.00 8.00 Net carrying amount 59,641 42,619 Tanzanian Shilling US$:TZS 1,600 1,400 Long-term oil price per barrel $90 $75 19.
Goodwill and intangible assets Discount rates 5.02%5.96% 7.12%8.67% Acquired exploration NPV multiples 1.001.40 1.201.80 For the year ended 31 December 2011 and evaluation in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total 2 Short-term gold price of US$1,600 per ounce used for 2012 and 2013 cash flow forecast.
1 3 Short-term exchange rate of 7.00 used for 2012 and 2013 cash flow forecast.
Opening net book amount 178,420 80,093 258,513 4 No reasonable changes in assumptions would result in an impairment to goodwill.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities At 31 December 2011 Unrecognised deferred tax assets Cost 394,898 80,093 474,991 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Accumulated impairment 216,478 216,478 As at As at Net book amount 178,420 80,093 258,513 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Tax losses 218,455 195,693 Acquired exploration Total 218,455 195,693 For the year ended 31 December 2010 and evaluation in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total The above tax losses which translate into deferred tax assets of approximately US$65 million 2010: US$59 million have not been recognised in Opening net book amount 156,397 156,397 respect of these items due to uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, or there being uncertainty regarding future taxable income against Additions 22,023 80,093 102,116 which these assets can be utilised.
Closing net book value 178,420 80,093 258,513 Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities At 31 December 2010 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Cost 394,898 80,093 474,991 Assets Liabilities Net Accumulated impairment 216,478 216,478 Balance sheet classifications Net book amount 178,420 80,093 258,513 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 1 The Groups opening goodwill arose from Pre-IPO acquisitions by Barrick Gold Corporation and African Barrick Gold acquisition of Tusker Gold Ltd on 27 April 2010.
The goodwill Property, plant and equipment 475,834 441,758 475,834 441,758 allocated to the Group has been presented as if the Group acquired this business as of the acquisition date.
Provisions 6,342 12,994 6,342 12,994 Goodwill and accumulated impairment losses by operating segments: Interest deferrals 12,999 7,213 12,999 7,213 Tusker acquisition 22,023 22,023 22,023 22,023 in thousands of United States dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu Tulawaka Other Total Tax loss carry-forwards 384,501 428,658 384,501 428,658 At 1 January 2010 21,046 121,546 13,805 156,397 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 403,842 448,865 497,857 463,781 94,015 14,916 Additions 22,023 22,023 At 1 January 2011 21,046 121,546 13,805 22,023 178,420 At 31 December 2011 21,046 121,546 13,805 22,023 178,420 Assets Liabilities Net Cost 237,524 121,546 13,805 22,023 394,898 Legal entities in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Accumulated impairments 216,478 216,478 North Mara Gold Mine Limited 36,404 13,865 36,404 13,865 Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited 54,974 121,116 54,974 121,116 Pangea Minerals Limited 95,828 100,297 95,828 100,297 Other 555 153 17,312 22,023 16,757 21,870 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 55,529 121,269 149,544 136,185 94,015 14,916 Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued by the TRA, have been measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach resulting in the recognition of substantially all the related deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Alternative acceptable measurement policies e. g. on a weighted average expected outcome basis could result in a change to deferred tax assets and liabilities being recognised, and the deferred tax charge in the income statement.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$141 million 2010: US$62 million.
Other assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 1 Amounts due from government 28,211 24,844 Operating lease prepayments TANESCO powerlines 2,643 4,210 2 Prepayments Acquisition of rights over leasehold land 14,289 7,444 3 Non-current portion of indirect tax receivable 62,976 63,174 Village housing 320 465 Deferred finance charges 2,219 3,813 Other 508 Total 110,658 104,458 1 Included in this amount are amounts receivable from the Tanzanian Social Security Fund of US$12.0 million 2010: US$8.1 million as well as amounts due from TANESCO of US$12.3 million 2010: US$15.3 million.
2 Prepayment made to the landowners in respect of acquisition of the rights over the use of leasehold land.
3 The non-current portion of the indirect tax receivables has been discounted to its current value using an effective interest rate of 5% 2010: 5.7%.
This resulted in a discounting charge of US$nil 2010: US$6.8 million to the income statement, refer Note 8.
No share movements have taken place in the current year.
Stock-based compensation Stock options Stock options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the Compensation committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
Options outstanding at the end of the year expire in 2017 and 2018.
297,865 of the options granted were exercisable at 31 December 2011.
The vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of three years.
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: Average exercise Average exercise price in pence price in pence per share Options per share Options For the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 2010 At 1 January 536 1,221,459 Granted 497 511,669 539 1,326,459 Forfeited 568 22,500 568 105,000 At 31 December 524 1,710,628 536 1,221,459 www.
com 150 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued A summary of the awards of the Groups equity-settled stock options at 31 December 2011 is presented below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the Group is in a position Weighted average Weighted average Weighted average exercise price in remaining fair value in pence to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Awards made in 2010 Number pence per share contractual life per share The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those 27 April 600,000 568 5.3 217 investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$141 million 2010: US$62 million.
Other assets 25 November 666,459 512 5.9 143 As at As at Awards made in 2011 31 December 31 December 29 November 511,669 497 6.9 166 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 1 Amounts due from government 28,211 24,844 The fair value of each award on the day of grant was estimated using a Lattice valuation approach.
The expected future volatility has been Operating lease prepayments TANESCO powerlines 2,643 4,210 determined by reference to the historical volatility.
The key assumptions used in the valuation are noted in the following table.
2 Prepayments Acquisition of rights over leasehold land 14,289 7,444 Risk-free Suboptimal 3 Non-current portion of indirect tax receivable 62,976 63,174 interest rate Expected volatility Dividend yield exercise multiple Option lifetime Awards made in 2011 % % % Times Years Village housing 320 465 29 November 1.46 42.5 0.80 1.6 7 Deferred finance charges 2,219 3,813 Other 508 Restricted Share Units Total 110,658 104,458 Included in other non-current liabilities are RSUs with a fair value of US$3.5 million as at 31 December 2011 2010: US$7.7 million.
1 Included in this amount are amounts receivable from the Tanzanian Social Security Fund of US$12.0 million 2010: US$8.1 million as well as amounts due from TANESCO of US$12.3 million 2010: US$15.3 million.
Fair value Number of 2 Prepayment made to the landowners in respect of acquisition of the rights over the use of leasehold land.
RSUs US$000 3 The non-current portion of the indirect tax receivables has been discounted to its current value using an effective interest rate of 5% 2010: 5.7%.
This resulted in a discounting At 1 January 2010 339,679 4,687 charge of US$nil 2010: US$6.8 million to the income statement, refer Note 8.
This table shows both Legacy RSU and RSU plans.
The units granted during the year were solely as part of the RSU plan based on the ABG shares.
Stock-based compensation Performance Restricted Share Units Stock options Included in other non-current liabilities are PRSUs with a fair value of US$402 thousand as at 31 December 2011 2010: US$109 thousand.
Stock options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the Fair value Compensation committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation Number of PRSUs US$000 of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of At 1 January 2010 grant.
Granted 144,612 109 The vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of three years.
At 31 December 2010 144,612 109 Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: Granted 389,366 112 Credits for dividends 929 2 Average exercise Average exercise price in pence price in pence Change in value 179 per share Options per share Options For the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 2010 At 31 December 2011 534,907 402 At 1 January 536 1,221,459 Granted 497 511,669 539 1,326,459 Forfeited 568 22,500 568 105,000 At 31 December 524 1,710,628 536 1,221,459 annUal report and accoUnts 2011 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Trade payables 55,790 23,133 1 Accrued expenses 71,357 53,599 1 Payroll-related payables 19,854 29,695 Contract retentions 1,056 1,503 Royalty payable 9,438 8,482 Income tax payable 431 309 Trade payables to related parties Note 32 3,990 3,240 Total 161,916 119,961 1 The prior year balance has been restated to transfer payroll and bonus accruals to payroll-related payables.
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Terms and conditions of the above payables liabilities: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day of statement terms.
Accruals and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 30-60 days.
This expenditure arises at different times over the life of mine for the different mine sites and is expected to be utilised in terms of cash outflows between years 2013 and 2034 and beyond, varying from mine site to mine site.
2 Other provisions relate to provisions for legal and tax-related liabilities where the outcome is not yet certain but it is expected that it will lead to a probable outflow of economic benefits in future.
Rehabilitation obligations arise from the acquisition, development, construction and normal operation of mining property, plant and equipment, due to government controls and regulations that protect the environment on the closure and reclamation of mining properties.
The major parts of the carrying amount of the obligation relate to tailings and heap leach pad closure rehabilitation: demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines.
The fair values of rehabilitation provisions are measured by discounting the expected cash flows using a discount factor that reflects the credit-adjusted risk-free rate of interest.
We prepare estimates of the timing and amount of expected cash flows when an obligation is incurred.
We update expected cash flows to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.
The principal factors that can cause expected cash flows to change are: the construction of new processing facilities: changes in the quantities of material in reserves and a corresponding change in the life of mine plan: changing ore characteristics that impact required environmental protection measures and related costs: changes in water quality that impact the extent of water treatment required: and changes in laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
Each period we assess cost estimates and other assumptions used in the valuation of the rehabilitation provision at each of our mineral properties to reflect events, changes in circumstances and new information available.
Changes in these cost estimates and assumptions are recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the corresponding asset.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted to reflect the passage of time accretion calculated by applying the discount factor implicit in the initial fair-value measurement to the beginning-of-period carrying amount of the provision.
Settlement gains losses will be recorded in other income expense.
Other environmental remediation costs that are not rehabilitation provisions are expensed as incurred.
com 152 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Other liabilities As at As at As at As at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Trade payables 55,790 23,133 Finance lease liabilities 18,217 1 Accrued expenses 71,357 53,599 Employee benefit RSU liability 3,879 7,803 1 Payroll-related payables 19,854 29,695 Other 3,472 3,472 Contract retentions 1,056 1,503 Total 25,568 11,275 Royalty payable 9,438 8,482 Current portion 6,580 3,792 Income tax payable 431 309 Non-current portion 18,988 7,483 Trade payables to related parties Note 32 3,990 3,240 Finance lease liabilities are capitalised at an effective interest rate of 5% per annum.
The lease terms are three and four years, with purchase options Total 161,916 119,961 at the end of the term.
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in 1 The prior year balance has been restated to transfer payroll and bonus accruals to payroll-related payables.
Trade payables As at As at 31 December 31 December are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
Trade payables are in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: Terms and conditions of the above payables liabilities: No later than 1 year 4,711 Between 1 and 3 years 13,113 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day of statement terms.
Between 3 and 5 years 2,380 Accruals and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 30-60 days.
20,204 Future finance charges on finance leases 1,987 25.
Provisions Present value of finance lease liabilities 18,217 Rehabilitation1 Other2 Total in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 As at As at At 1 January 101,477 72,164 11,467 11,400 112,944 83,564 31 December 31 December Change in estimate 52,761 27,948 2,904 67 49,857 28,015 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Utilised during the year 7,529 7,529 Present value of finance lease liabilities: Unwinding of discount 3,344 1,365 3,344 1,365 No later than 1 year 3,862 At 31 December 157,582 101,477 1,034 11,467 158,616 112,944 Between 1 and 3 years 12,028 Current portion 1,034 4,000 1,034 4,000 Between 3 and 5 years 2,327 Non-current portion 157,582 101,477 7,467 157,582 108,944 Present value of finance lease liabilities 18,217 1 Rehabilitation provisions relate to the decommissioning costs expected to be incurred for the operating mines.
Financial assets and liabilities 2 Other provisions relate to provisions for legal and tax-related liabilities where the outcome is not yet certain but it is expected that it will lead to a probable outflow of economic benefits a Financial assets in future.
Carrying value Fair value Rehabilitation obligations arise from the acquisition, development, construction and normal operation of mining property, plant and equipment, in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 2011 2010 due to government controls and regulations that protect the environment on the closure and reclamation of mining properties.
The major parts Cash and cash equivalents 584,154 401,012 584,154 401,012 of the carrying amount of the obligation relate to tailings and heap leach pad closure rehabilitation: demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing Trade and other receivables 29,858 59,214 29,858 59,214 water treatment: and ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines.
The fair values of rehabilitation provisions are measured by discounting the Derivative financial instruments 4,263 4,263 expected cash flows using a discount factor that reflects the credit-adjusted risk-free rate of interest.
We prepare estimates of the timing and amount Total other assets 143,929 174,886 143,929 174,886 of expected cash flows when an obligation is incurred.
The principal Total financial assets 762,204 635,112 762,204 635,112 factors that can cause expected cash flows to change are: the construction of new processing facilities: changes in the quantities of material in reserves and a corresponding change in the life of mine plan: changing ore characteristics that impact required environmental protection measures Less: Current financial assets and related costs: changes in water quality that impact the extent of water treatment required: and changes in laws and regulations governing the Cash and cash equivalents 584,154 401,012 584,154 401,012 protection of the environment.
Trade and other receivables 29,858 59,214 29,858 59,214 Derivative financial instruments 4,050 4,050 Each period we assess cost estimates and other assumptions used in the valuation of the rehabilitation provision at each of our mineral properties Other current assets 33,271 70,428 33,271 70,428 to reflect events, changes in circumstances and new information available.
Changes in these cost estimates and assumptions are recorded as an Total other non-current financial assets 110,871 104,458 110,871 104,458 adjustment to the carrying amount of the corresponding asset.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted to reflect the passage of time accretion calculated by applying the discount factor implicit in the initial fair-value measurement to the beginning-of-period carrying amount of the The fair value of financial assets, excluding other assets, equal their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant.
other assets are indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority, which have been discounted to their present value, refer to Note 16 and Note 21.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Financial assets and liabilities continued b Financial liabilities Carrying value Fair value in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 2011 2010 Derivative financial instruments 114 3,658 114 3,658 Trade and other payables 161,916 119,961 161,916 119,916 1 Other liabilities 25,568 11,275 25,568 11,275 Total 187,598 134,894 187,598 134,894 Less: Current financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 58 1,904 58 1,904 Trade and other payables 161,916 119,961 161,916 119,961 1 Other current liabilities 6,580 3,792 6,580 3,792 Total non-current portion of financial liabilities 19,044 9,237 19,044 9,237 1 The prior year other liabilities has been restated to include both current and non-current liabilities.
Other liabilities relate to cash settled share based plans and their valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
Also included in other liabilities are the finance lease liabilities and their valuation is based on observable market data.
Derivative financial instruments are valued based upon inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable markets data.
Revolving credit facility On 24 November 2010, the Group concluded negotiations with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank, for the provision of a revolving credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements.
During 2011, the term of the facility was extended to 2014 and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
At 31 December 2011, none of the funds were drawn under the facility.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan.
Costs associated with the revolving credit facility have been included in finance expenses.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups derivatives as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are summarised below.
Assets Liabilities Summary of derivatives as at 31 December 2011 Net in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Fair value Commodity contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 384 384 Commodity contracts: Not designated as hedges 3,109 148 21 3,236 Currency contracts: Not designated as hedges 557 65 58 35 529 Total 4,050 213 58 56 4,149 Assets Liabilities Summary of derivatives as at 31 December 2010 Net in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Fair value Commodity contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges Commodity contracts: Not designated as hedges 1,904 1,754 3,658 Total 1,904 1,754 3,658 www.
com 154 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Net fair value 27.
Financial assets and liabilities continued 2011 2010 Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges b Financial liabilities in thousands of United States dollars Asset Liability Asset Liability Carrying value Fair value Fuel option contracts 384 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 2011 2010 Total fair value 384 Derivative financial instruments 114 3,658 114 3,658 Less than 1 year 384 Trade and other payables 161,916 119,961 161,916 119,916 Between 1 and 3 years 1 Other liabilities 25,568 11,275 25,568 11,275 Total fair value 384 Total 187,598 134,894 187,598 134,894 Less: Current financial liabilities Commodity contracts During the year, the Group added 220 thousand barrels of Brent oil net purchase options for calendar year 2012.
The designated contracts act as Derivative financial instruments 58 1,904 58 1,904 a hedge against variability in market prices, in a pre-defined range, on the cost of future fuel purchases over the next year.
At 31 December 2011, Trade and other payables 161,916 119,961 161,916 119,961 1 the Group had 220 thousand barrels of Brent crude oil net purchase options outstanding.
Each contract consists of sold put options, bought call Other current liabilities 6,580 3,792 6,580 3,792 options and sold call options with average strike prices of US$84.50 per barrel, US$110 per barrel and US$130 per barrel respectively.
Total non-current portion of financial liabilities 19,044 9,237 19,044 9,237 1 The prior year other liabilities has been restated to include both current and non-current liabilities.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of forecasted consumption purchased in a future month.
Hedge effectiveness is assessed using linear regression utilising the concept of the hypothetical derivative method.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the commodity contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted Derivative financial instruments are valued based upon inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for expenditure impacts earnings.
similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable Net fair value markets data.
2011 2010 Derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges Revolving credit facility in thousands of United States dollars Asset Liability Asset Liability On 24 November 2010, the Group concluded negotiations with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank, for the provision of a revolving Copper collar contracts 2,569 3,658 credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the Silver collar contracts 688 Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial Fuel option contracts 21 and customary terms for such finance arrangements.
During 2011, the term of the facility was extended to 2014 and when drawn the spread over Currency collar contracts 622 93 LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have Total fair value 3,879 114 3,658 been pledged as security for the loan.
Derivative financial instruments Total fair value 3,879 114 3,658 The Groups derivatives as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are summarised below.
Commodity contracts Assets Liabilities Summary of derivatives as at 31 December 2011 Net During 2011 the Group entered into zero cost collars to manage the impact of copper and silver price fluctuations and option contracts to manage in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Fair value the impact of fuel price fluctuations.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
Commodity contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 384 384 These transactions are economic hedges, and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment for the positions.
Changes in the fair value of these Commodity contracts: Not designated as hedges 3,109 148 21 3,236 options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had 10,582 thousand Currency contracts: Not designated as hedges 557 65 58 35 529 pounds of copper collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put and sold call options with average strike prices of US$3.34 per pound Total 4,050 213 58 56 4,149 and US$4.84 per pound respectively 2010: 21,826 thousand pounds of collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put and call options with an average strike price of US$3.25 per pound and US$4.77 per pound respectively.
Assets Liabilities At 31 December 2011, the Group had 216 thousand ounces of silver collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put and sold call options Summary of derivatives as at 31 December 2010 Net with average strike prices of US$28 per ounce and US$49 per ounce respectively.
These contracts mature in 2012 and 2013 respectively.
in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Fair value Commodity contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges In addition, the Group had 90 thousand barrels of Brent oil option contracts for calendar year 2013.
These option contracts did not meet the Commodity contracts: Not designated as hedges 1,904 1,754 3,658 requirements for hedge accounting however they still economically hedge fuel expenses.
These contracts have the same structure as the existing Total 1,904 1,754 3,658 cash flow hedges for 2012 and have strike prices of US$77, US$110 and US$135.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Derivative financial instruments continued Currency contracts During the year, currency contracts totalling US$63 million of US Dollar South African Rand contracts were entered into to hedge forecasted South African Rand denominated expenditure.
The transactions are economic hedges, and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
The outstanding contracts hedge the variability of the US dollar amount of those expenditures caused by changes in currency exchange rates, in a pre-defined range, over the next two years.
These contracts consist of purchased put options and sold call options with average strike prices of R8.10 and R9.10 respectively.
The contracts mature in 2012 and 2013.
Amount of gain recognised in OCI Gain loss recognised in income Gains losses on derivative financial instruments in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 2011 2010 Gains on cash flow hedges Fuel option contracts 384 Gains losses on derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges Copper collar contracts 6,321 3,658 Silver collar contracts 688 Fuel option contracts 21 Currency collar contracts 529 Total gain loss 7,901 3,658 29.
Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks: b credit risk: and c liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Board of Directors has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit committee.
a Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
Gold price The market price of gold is one of the most significant factors in determining the profitability of the Groups operations.
The price of gold is subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time, especially in the current market environment, and is affected by numerous industry and macro-economic factors that are beyond the Groups control.
In 2011 the price ranged from US$1,308 to US$1,921 per ounce and closed at US$1,531 per ounce.
Gold prices averaged US$1,572, a US$347 per ounce improvement on the US$1,225 per ounce average in the prior year.
The Groups policy is to sell gold at prevailing market prices.
com 156 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price of gold.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the 28.
Derivative financial instruments continued Groups profit after tax for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price Currency contracts changes by 10% with all other variables held constant.
The impact of a similar change in copper and silver is not material to the Groups profit During the year, currency contracts totalling US$63 million of US Dollar South African Rand contracts were entered into to hedge forecasted after tax.
South African Rand denominated expenditure.
The outstanding contracts Effect on Effect on profit after tax profit after tax hedge the variability of the US dollar amount of those expenditures caused by changes in currency exchange rates, in a pre-defined range, over the for the year ended for the year ended Gain loss associated with 10% increase decrease from year-end price next two years.
31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 The contracts mature in 2012 and 2013.
Gold 78,087 62,556 Amount of gain recognised in OCI Gain loss recognised in income Gains losses on derivative financial instruments in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 2011 2010 Copper price Gains on cash flow hedges During 2010 and 2011 the Group entered into zero cost collars to manage the impact of copper price fluctuations see Note 28 for additional details.
In 2011 the price ranged from US$3.08 to US$4.60 per pound, with an average market price of US$4.00 per pound 2010: US$3.42 per pound and Fuel option contracts 384 closing at US$3.43 per pound.
Gains losses on derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges Copper collar contracts 6,321 3,658 Silver price Silver collar contracts 688 During 2011 the Group entered into collar contracts to manage silver price fluctuations see Note 28 for additional details.
In 2011 the price Fuel option contracts 21 ranged from US$26.16 to US$48.70 per ounce, with an average market price of US$35.12 per pound.
Currency collar contracts 529 Oil price Total gain loss 7,901 3,658 Diesel fuel is refined from crude oil and is therefore subject to the same price volatility affecting crude oil prices.
During 2011, oil prices traded between US$92 and US$127 per barrel with an average market price of US$111 per barrel.
To manage the impact of oil price fluctuations, 29.
Financial risk management Brent oil option contracts were entered into during the year see Note 28 for additional details.
The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market prices of crude oil.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks: in the Groups profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes b credit risk: and by US$10 per barrel with all other variables held constant.
The effect on profit after tax before hedging is calculated based on actual consumption c liquidity risk.
for the year and does not address the indirect impact of a change in the oil price on other costs.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing Effect on Effect on and managing risk.
profit after tax profit after tax for the year ended for the year ended Gain loss associated with US$10 decrease increase from year-end price 31 December 31 December The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Oil 3,098 2,372 The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market Risks relating to the use of derivatives conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined By using derivatives, in addition to credit risk, we are affected by market risk.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of a derivative might be and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
adversely affected by a change in commodity prices, interest rates, or currency exchange rates, and that this in turn affects our financial condition.
We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be undertaken.
The Audit committee Foreign currency risk is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars, Shillings, and Rands.
The Group has liabilities the results of which are reported to the Audit committee.
that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Therefore, transactions in currencies other than the US dollar give rise to foreign currency translation risk.
The Groups a Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks primary exposure to this risk arises from direct mining, corporate administration, exploration and evaluation and capital costs that are transacted Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates, will affect the Groups in Shillings and Rands, respectively.
Consequently, fluctuations in the US dollar: Shilling Rand exchange rates increase the volatility of cost of sales, income or the value of its financial instruments.
corporate administration costs and overall net profits, which are reported in US dollars.
The vast majority of expenditure is denominated and settled in US dollars.
Consequently, the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations on the Groups reported direct mining, corporate administration, Gold price exploration and evaluation and capital costs is not significant.
The market price of gold is one of the most significant factors in determining the profitability of the Groups operations.
The price of gold is subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time, especially in the current market environment, and is affected by numerous industry The exchange rates at the end of each financial year are detailed in Note 2h.
and macro-economic factors that are beyond the Groups control.
In 2011 the price ranged from US$1,308 to US$1,921 per ounce and closed Historically, the relationship between the gold price and the value of the Shilling and Rand has provided a natural hedge against fluctuations in at US$1,531 per ounce.
the exchange rate of these currencies against the US dollar.
Generally, a strengthening of the Shilling Rand corresponds with an increase in the The Groups policy is to sell gold at prevailing market prices.
US dollar gold price, which results in an increase in reported US dollar revenues.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Financial risk management continued During the year, Rand US dollar collar contracts were undertaken to hedge rand denominated expenditures.
During the year, currency contracts totalling US$63 million of US$ South African Rand have been designated against forecasted non-US$ denominated expenditure.
The outstanding contracts hedge the variability of the US dollar amount of those expenditures caused by changes in currency exchange rates over the next year.
Refer to Note 28 for more information.
The Group does have significant financial assets denominated in a currency other than US dollar.
These financial assets are as follow: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Indirect tax receivables denominated in Tanzanian shillings 85,347 121,222 Total 85,347 121,222 The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on the value of the financial assets.
Effect on Effect on profit after tax profit after tax for the year ended for the year ended Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar as at 31 December 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar US dollar strengthens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling Increase in total indirect tax receivables 9,483 13,469 US dollar weakens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling Decrease in total indirect tax receivables 7,759 11,020 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
At present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in US dollars.
Interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
The amount of interest expense recorded in the Groups consolidated income statement is not materially impacted by changes in short-term interest rates, due to the Groups low levels of interest-bearing debt at present.
The revolving credit facilitys spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points on amounts drawn.
Group debt levels are impacted by the amount of operating cash flow generated by its operating mines, as well as capital expenditure requirements related to existing operations and development projects.
The Group currently has no interest rate hedging in place as the interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties whom the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical location of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
The maximum allowable term of maturity for any individual security is 12 months.
Investment counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa2 or better by Moodys Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poors.
No more than 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United States of America, United Kingdom and Barbados, or in any one industry group.
Investments are held mainly in United States dollars and cash and cash equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
With respect to other receivables, the most significant debtor is the Tanzanian Revenue Authority.
Throughout the year, ABG has been actively involved in discussions with the Tanzanian government and the Tanzanian Revenue Authority to resolve the status of fuel excise levies and VAT refunds for its operations.
These issues have been outstanding for some time and were further complicated by amendments made to certain tax laws which were passed in 2009.
The amendments conflicted with certain provisions contained in the Groups existing Mineral Development Agreements MDAs which guarantee the fiscal stability of its operations.
The government has adopted legislation to reverse the amendments, www.
com 158 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued which should allow for the fiscal and tax terms of our MDAs to be honoured.
As at 31 December 2011, the discounted outstanding amounts due 29.
Financial risk management continued to the Group were approximately US$85.3 million.
During the third quarter the Group signed a Memorandum of Settlement with the Tanzanian During the year, Rand US dollar collar contracts were undertaken to hedge rand denominated expenditures.
During the year, currency contracts Revenue Authority TRA to address the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and value added taxation.
totalling US$63 million of US$ South African Rand have been designated against forecasted non-US$ denominated expenditure.
The outstanding The terms of the Memorandum of Settlement allow ABG to offset income tax payable against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies as contracts hedge the variability of the US dollar amount of those expenditures caused by changes in currency exchange rates over the next year.
As a result of these changes, Tulawaka and Buzwagi will effectively be treated as two separate entities for tax purposes, Refer to Note 28 for more information.
Further detail is included in Notes 16, 21 and 31b.
These financial assets are as follow: Group policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of a counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored As at As at with trade customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk 31 December 31 December is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties who the Group in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 considers have an appropriate credit rating.
During the year, receivables to the value of US$36.6 million were advanced by a financial institution Indirect tax receivables denominated in Tanzanian shillings 85,347 121,222 under a factoring agreement.
This agreement reduces the risk of default of receivables.
Further detail is included in Note 16.
Total 85,347 121,222 Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets in Note 27.
The Group does not hold The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on the collateral as security for any trade receivables.
The Group does not grade the credit quality of receivables.
value of the financial assets.
c Liquidity risk Effect on Effect on profit after tax profit after tax for the year ended for the year ended Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not having access to sufficient funds to meet both expected and unexpected cash demands.
The Group manages Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar as at 31 December 31 December 31 December its exposure to liquidity risk by ensuring that its operating and strategic liquidity levels are well above minimum internal requirements.
Prudent in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash balances, and the availability of funding from an adequate amount of committed Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar credit facilities.
At the end of both 2011 and 2010 the Group was in a positive net cash position, as disclosed in Note 17.
Details of the undrawn US dollar strengthens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling revolving credit facility are given in Note 27.
Increase in total indirect tax receivables 9,483 13,469 US dollar weakens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling In the ordinary course of business, the Group receives cash proceeds from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital Decrease in total indirect tax receivables 7,759 11,020 expenditure requirements.
The cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested to maximise returns while ensuring that capital is safeguarded to the maximum extent possible by investing only with financial institutions with a strong credit rating.
Insignificant uncommitted overdraft Interest rate risk facilities are maintained with several banking counterparties to meet the Groups normal funding requirements.
The Groups primary source Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate due to changes of liquidity is operating cash flow, and over the past two years the Group has generated an average of about US$516 million per year.
The principal in market interest rates.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose risk factor affecting operating cash flow is market gold prices and production.
the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The principal uses of liquidity are sustaining capital expenditures at existing operating mines, construction activities at development projects, At present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in US dollars.
Interest income is not and interest payments.
Sustaining capital expenditures have averaged about US$124 million per year over the past two years.
materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
The amount of interest expense recorded in the Groups consolidated income statement The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial assets into relevant maturity groupings based on the is not materially impacted by changes in short-term interest rates, due to the Groups low levels of interest-bearing debt at present.
The revolving remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual credit facilitys spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points on amounts drawn.
Group debt levels are impacted by the amount of operating cash flow undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
generated by its operating mines, as well as capital expenditure requirements related to existing operations and development projects.
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 Over 5 in thousands of United States dollars 1 year years years years Total b Credit risk Cash and cash equivalents 584,154 584,154 Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and cash Accounts receivable 29,858 29,858 equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions.
Derivative assets 4,050 213 4,263 Other receivables 33,271 80,326 30,332 143,929 Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical location Total 651,333 80,539 30,532 762,204 of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
No more than For the year ended 31 December 2010 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United States of America, Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 Over 5 in thousands of United States dollars 1 year years years years Total United Kingdom and Barbados, or in any one industry group.
Investments are held mainly in United States dollars and cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents 401,012 401,012 in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
Accounts receivable 59,214 59,214 With respect to other receivables, the most significant debtor is the Tanzanian Revenue Authority.
Throughout the year, ABG has been actively Other receivables 70,428 104,458 174,886 involved in discussions with the Tanzanian government and the Tanzanian Revenue Authority to resolve the status of fuel excise levies and VAT Total 530,654 104,458 635,112 refunds for its operations.
The government has adopted legislation to reverse the amendments, annUal report and accoUnts 2011 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Financial risk management continued The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 Over 5 in thousands of United States dollars 1 year years years years Total Derivative liabilities 58 56 114 Other liabilities 6,580 13,188 5,800 25,568 1 Trade and other payables 161,485 161,485 Total 168,123 13,244 5,800 187,167 For the year ended 31 December 2010 Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 Over 5 in thousands of United States dollars 1 year years years years Total Derivative liabilities 1,904 1,754 3,658 Other liabilities 3,792 4,011 3,472 11,275 Trade and other payables 119,652 119,652 Total 125,348 5,765 3,472 134,585 1 Trade and other payables exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support its business and provides financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio, management thoroughly evaluates the impact of all material projects and potential acquisitions.
These transactions are approved by the Senior leadership team before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
Operating lease arrangements For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the period 1,736 556 Total 1,736 556 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Within one year 1,442 984 In the second to fifth years inclusive 3,701 2,459 After five years 1,188 1,718 Total 6,331 5,161 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group.
com 160 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Commitments and contingencies The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group has The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the following commitments and or contingencies: the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
a Legal contingencies As at 31 December 2011, the Group was a defendant in approximately 212 lawsuits.
The plaintiffs are claiming damages and interest thereon for For the year ended 31 December 2011 Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 Over 5 in thousands of United States dollars 1 year years years years Total the loss caused by the Group due to one or more of the following: unlawful eviction, termination of services, wrongful termination of contracts of service, non-payment for services, defamation, negligence by act or omission in failing to provide a safe working environment, unpaid overtime Derivative liabilities 58 56 114 and public holidays compensation.
Other liabilities 6,580 13,188 5,800 25,568 1 Trade and other payables 161,485 161,485 The total amounts claimed from lawsuits in which specific monetary damages are sought amounted to US$47 million.
The Groups Legal Counsel Total 168,123 13,244 5,800 187,167 is defending the Groups current position, and the outcome of the lawsuits cannot presently be determined.
However, in the opinion of the Directors and Groups Legal Counsel, no material liabilities are expected to materialise from these lawsuits.
Consequently no provision has been set aside against the claims in the books of account.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 Over 5 in thousands of United States dollars 1 year years years years Total Included in the total amounts claimed of US$47 million is a notice received from the tax investigations department informing ABG that the TRA Derivative liabilities 1,904 1,754 3,658 intend to raise a tax assessment of US$21.3 million in respect of the acquisition of Tusker.
The calculated tax assessment is based on the sales price Other liabilities 3,792 4,011 3,472 11,275 of the Nyanzaga property of US$71 million multiplied by the tax rate of 30%.
Management is of the opinion that the assessment is invalid due to the Trade and other payables 119,652 119,652 fact that the acquisition was for Tusker Gold Limited, a company incorporated in Australia.
The share holding of the Tanzanian related entities did Total 125,348 5,765 3,472 134,585 not change and the Tusker Gold Limited group structure remains the same as prior to the acquisition.
1 Trade and other payables exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
Also included in the total amounts claimed of US$47 million is a claim of US$2.8 million against North Mara Gold Mine being compensation for Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from uncaused improvements, disturbance and accommodation allowance, rich gold land current value, interest and costs.
Management are of the settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
opinion that the defence is likely to succeed.
Capital risk management b Tax-related contingencies The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support its i.
On 26 October 2009, the TRA issued a demand notice against the Group for an amount relating to withholding tax on technical services business and provides financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio, provided to Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd.
The claim amounts to US$5.4 million.
Management is of the opinion that the Group complied management thoroughly evaluates the impact of all material projects and potential acquisitions.
These transactions are approved by the Senior with all of the withholding tax requirements, and that there will be no amount payable.
Therefore no provision has been raised.
leadership team before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The TRA has issued a number of tax assessments to the Group relating to past taxation years from 2002 onwards.
Operating lease arrangements these assessments are incorrect and has filed objections to each of them.
The Group is attempting to resolve these matters by means of For the year ended For the year ended discussions with the TRA.
Management is of the opinion that this will not result in any material liabilities to the Group.
31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 c Exploration and development agreement Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the period 1,736 556 Pursuant to agreements with the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, the Group was issued mining licences for Bulyanhulu, Total 1,736 556 Buzwagi, North Mara and Tulawaka mines.
The agreement requires the Group to pay to the Government of Tanzania annual rents of At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, US$2,000 per annum per square kilometre for as long as the Group holds the mining licences.
The total commitment for 2012 based on which fall due as follows: mineral licences held as at 31 December 2011 is US$0.8 million 2011: US$0.3 million.
As at As at d Purchase commitments 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 At 31 December 2011, the Group had purchase obligations for supplies and consumables of approximately US$31 million 2010: US$64 million.
Within one year 1,442 984 In the second to fifth years inclusive 3,701 2,459 e Capital commitments After five years 1,188 1,718 In addition to entering into various operational commitments in the normal course of business, the Group entered into the following commitments Total 6,331 5,161 for construction activities for capital projects.
Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Contracted capital expenditure 32,085 29,323 Total 32,085 29,323 annUal report and accoUnts 2011 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Commitments and contingencies continued f Insurance Insurance coverage is purchased for certain insurable losses, subject to varying deductibles, at the Groups mineral properties including losses such as property damage and business interruption.
The Group records losses relating to insurable events as they occur.
Proceeds receivable from insurance coverage are recorded at such time as receipt is virtually certain and the amount receivable is fixed or determinable.
The following table sets out the effect of the insurance claims: For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Cost of sales 2,100 Other income 4,535 Total 6,635 32.
Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2011, and 31 December 2010.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by BGC, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Transactions with related parties are as follows: a Transactions For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 BIBC gold sale dor 185,233 Provision of goods and services 507 2,443 Purchase of goods and services 8,426 8,864 Special dividend payment 258,680 Dividend payments 20,924 4,852 Total 28,843 84,720 Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services relates to cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties.
Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties and recharged to the Group.
Services purchased relate mainly to insurance and software licences.
Goods purchased relate mainly to consumables and capital equipment.
b Balances due from related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Due from fellow subsidiaries: Placer Dome Exploration 247 247 Placer Dome Technical Services 37 37 Barrick Platinum Pty Ltd 1,696 Other 70 151 Total 354 2,131 The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest.
There are no provisions held against receivables from BGC.
com 162 overview performance governance fInancIal shareholder statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Commitments and contingencies continued c Balances due to related parties As at As at f Insurance 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Insurance coverage is purchased for certain insurable losses, subject to varying deductibles, at the Groups mineral properties including losses Due to Holding Company: such as property damage and business interruption.
Proceeds receivable from Barrick Gold Corporation 3,638 2,608 insurance coverage are recorded at such time as receipt is virtually certain and the amount receivable is fixed or determinable.
The following table Due to fellow subsidiaries: sets out the effect of the insurance claims: BIBC 3 54 For the year ended For the year ended Barrick Gold Australia Ltd 317 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Barrick Gold North America 203 Cost of sales 2,100 Other 146 261 Other income 4,535 Total 3,990 3,240 Total 6,635 The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions noted above.
The payables are unsecured and bear no interest.
Related party balances and transactions d Remuneration of key management personnel The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2011, and 31 December 2010.
Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Leadership Team who receive remuneration.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: Transactions with related parties are as follows: For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December a Transactions in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 For the year ended For the year ended Short-term employee benefits 10,647 6,001 31 December 31 December Post-employment benefits 1,103 486 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Other long-term benefits BIBC gold sale dor 185,233 Stock-based compensation 2,114 728 Provision of goods and services 507 2,443 Total 13,864 7,215 Purchase of goods and services 8,426 8,864 Special dividend payment 258,680 33.
Prospecting licences Dividend payments 20,924 4,852 Total 28,843 84,720 The Group holds exploration mineral rights in the United Republic of Tanzania.
These rights are held in the form of prospecting licences issued by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and are held either directly by the Group or indirectly pursuant to third party agreements.
The licences held Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services by the Group as at 31 December 2011 are summarised in the following table.
The total commitment to exploration expenditure on these licences for relates to cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties.
Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties 2012 is US$2.4 million.
and recharged to the Group.
Goods purchased relate mainly to consumables Number of Approximate and capital equipment.
Mineral licence concessions concessions Km2 Held by North Mara Gold Mine Limited 10 72.84 b Balances due from related parties Held by Pangea Minerals Limited 88 2,069.29 As at As at 31 December 31 December Held by Barrick Africa Exploration Limited 119 1,569.98 in thousands of United States dollars 2011 2010 Held by Vulcan Resources Tanzania 13 191.60 Due from fellow subsidiaries: Held by Sub-Sahara Resources TZ Limited 13 111.00 Placer Dome Exploration 247 247 Held by Nyanzaga Exploration Limited 2 32.97 Placer Dome Technical Services 37 37 1 Prospecting licences indirectly held 71 1,123.72 Barrick Platinum Pty Ltd 1,696 Total 316 5,171.40 Other 70 151 1 Via exploration joint venture with third parties.
Total 354 2,131 The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest.
annUal report and accoUnts 2011 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34. Business combination On 27 April 2010, the Company, through BUK Holdco Ltd, one of its immediate subsidiaries, purchased 100% of the issued share capital of Tusker Gold Ltd Tusker by way of a takeover offer for an aggregate net consideration of approximately US$74 million.
Tusker is an Australian based exploration company with a focus on gold.
Tusker was listed on the Australian Stock Exchange but was delisted from the Exchange as part of the acquisition.
All of Tuskers assets are located in Tanzania and consist of a significant gold resource base and additional exploration ground.
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Purchase consideration 74,232 Fair value of net assets acquired 52,209 Goodwill on acquisition 22,023 The goodwill arose after the application of IAS 12 Income taxes and is attributable principally to expanding growth opportunities in Tanzania.
There has been no change to the provisional fair value during the year.
Post balance sheet events Dividend A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 of US13.1 cents per share, amounting to a final dividend of US16.3 cents per share for 2011, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2012.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
