Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 138 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 139 Financial statements Financial statements Company balance sheet Notes to the Companys financial statements at 30 September 2011 30 September 30 September Derivative financial instruments A.
Accounting policies 2011 2010 Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain Note m m Basis of preparation or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in Fixed assets The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge Investment in subsidiary undertakings D 1,430 918 dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the Total investments 1,430 918 Companys financial statements.
nature of the item being hedged.
Current assets Accounting convention Convertible bond Derivative financial instruments 1 6 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The convertible bonds are split into two components: a debt Debtors E 384 1,145 applicable UK accounting standards and under the historical cost component and a component representing the embedded derivatives Cash at bank and in hand 33 convention.
The financial statements have been prepared on the in the bond.
The debt component represents the Groups liability 418 1,151 going concern basis, which assumes that the Company will continue for future interest coupon payments and the redemption amount.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year F 398 967 in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Company The embedded derivatives represent the value of the option that Net current assets 20 184 has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 408 of the bondholders have to convert into ordinary shares of the Company.
Total assets less current liabilities 1,450 1,102 Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own profit and loss account.
These derivatives were valued on inception and recognised in the Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year G 926 638 The profit after tax included in the financial statements of the Company convertible bond reserve in equity.
Provision for liabilities H 24 19 determined in accordance with the Act, was 174m 2010: 214m.
The debt component of the convertible bonds are measured Net assets 500 445 The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash at amortised cost and therefore increase as the present value of ow statement as its cash ows are included within the published the interest coupon payments and redemption amount increases, Capital and reserves consolidated statement of cash ows of TUI Travel PLC.
with a corresponding charge to finance cost.
The debt component Called up share capital I 112 112 decreases by the cash interest coupon payments made.
The embedded profit and loss account J 277 227 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained derivatives are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date, and Convertible bond reserve J 85 83 within FRS 29 and has not provided the required financial changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Other reserves J 26 23 instruments disclosure on the basis that the Groups consolidated financial statements include consolidated IFRS 7 disclosures which Total shareholders funds J 500 445 Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and derivative are compliant with the requirements of FRS 29. components of a convertible bond based on the allocation of The financial statements were approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 4 December 2011 and were signed on its proceeds to the liability and derivative components when the behalf by: Foreign currencies instruments are first recognised.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets Share-based payment and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet Peter J Long William H Waggott The Company operates share-based payment schemes for the date are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at Chief Executive Chief Financial officer employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The fair value of that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are shares awarded to employees is an employee expense and is borne Company number: 6072876 recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and by fellow Group subsidiaries.
The fair value is measured at the award liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign The notes on pages 139 to 143 form part of these financial statements.
date and is spread over the period during which the employee currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the becomes unconditionally entitled to the awards.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in value takes into account various factors including the expected volatility foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest rate.
Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values The Company makes awards of its own shares to the employees were determined.
of its subsidiaries and as such recognises an increase in the cost Investments of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries financial impairment.
Dividends received and receivable are credited to statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly the Companys profit and loss account.
The increase in investments and credit to equity for the year ended 30 September 2011 is 19m 30 September 2010: 14m.
Interest-bearing borrowings Further information on the share schemes is provided in Note 6 D Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value to the consolidated financial statements.
Subsequent to initial recognition, Transactions of the Companys Employee benefit Trusts are included interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any in the Companys financial statements.
In particular, the Trusts differences between cost and redemption value being recognised purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an credited directly to equity.
Related parties Classication of financial instruments issued For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity to be related to the Company if the Company has the ability directly only to the extent that they meet the following conditions: they or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant inuence over include no contractual obligation upon the Company to deliver cash the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial where the Company and the party are subject to common control or liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially common significant inuence.
Related parties may be individuals or unfavourable to the Company and: where the instrument will or may other entities.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a contained within FRS 8 and has not therefore disclosed transactions non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number or balances with entities which are wholly-owned subsidiaries.
of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a xed amount of cash or other financial assets for a xed number of its own equity instruments.
