Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 136 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 137 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Independent Auditors report to the members of TUI Travel PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of TUI Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 32.
Earnings loss per share continued Travel PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011 which comprise the Companies Act 2006 Non-GAAP measure parent company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial In our opinion: Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to underlying earnings reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is Restated the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Year ended Year ended been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 30 September 30 September Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
2006: and 2011 2010 Note m m the information given in the Directors report for the financial year Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Underlying operating profit 471 399 for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement Net underlying financial expenses 5 111 110 consistent with the parent company financial statements.
set out on page 50, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Underlying profit before tax 360 289 of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied Matters on which we are required to report Underlying tax charge at 27% 2010: 27% 97 79 that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements by exception Underlying profit for the year 263 210 in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where Attributable to ordinary shareholders 261 210 Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Attributable to non-controlling interests 2 with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Underlying profit for the year 263 210 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received The 2010 reconciliation has been restated as described in Note 1 B ii.
The underlying numbers shown are as described in Note 1 B iii and for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 from branches not visited by us: or exclude 35m, being the impact of the volcanic ash in 2010, and include the representation from discontinued operations of the results of of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Jet4You as described in Note 1 B ii.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is accounting records and returns: or shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed 33.
Post balance sheet events certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are by our prior consent in writing.
Details of acquisitions since the balance sheet date are set out in Note 13. not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the audit of the financial statements require for our audit.
Ultimate parent company An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable The ultimate parent company is considered to be TUI AG, a company registered in Berlin and Hanover Federal Republic of Germany.
Other matter assurance that the financial statements are free from material At 30 September 2011 TUI AG was the beneficial owner of 55.47% of the ordinary share capital of the Company.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an In addition a number of bonds are held by TUI AG either directly or indirectly and, if converted, this would give rise to 52,309,463 of of TUI Travel PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011. assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the new shares.
On a fully-diluted basis, if all bonds were converted, TUI AGs shareholding would be 50.83% at 30 September 2011. parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting TUI AG prepares consolidated financial statements which include the results of the Group.
TUI AG is the parent undertaking of the smallest estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation Roger fide Peyrecave Senior Statutory Auditor and largest group to consolidate these financial statements.
The accounting reference date of TUI AG is 30 September.
Copies of the TUI AG of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial for and on behalf of  LLP financial statements are publicly available and can be obtained from the registered ofce of this company situated at Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4, and non-financial information in the Annual Report & Accounts to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 30625 Hanover, Federal Republic of Germany.
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
London If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 4 December 2011 or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. www.
