FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the members of Tullow Oil plc 5 We have audited the Parent Company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which Act 2006 comprise the balance sheet, the accounting policies and the In our opinion: related notes 1 to 13.
The financial reporting framework that The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and has been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Companies Act 2006: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The information given in the Directors report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, year for which the financial statements are prepared is as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters Matters on which we are required to report by exception we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the in our opinion: Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor not been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities The Parent Company financial statements and the part of statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not of the Parent Company financial statements and for being in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified financial statements in accordance with applicable law and by law are not made: or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those We have not received all the information and explanations standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices we require for our audit.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2011. disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Matthew Donaldson Senior Statutory Auditor adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read London, UK all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 13 March 2012 financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
