Operations review continued basin opening campaigns, to where we are today, exploring EXPLORATION & APPRAISAL systems of related hydrocarbon basins.
We are taking ever Bold exploration strategy more material acreage positions, with sensible commitments Our bold exploration strategy differentiates Tullow within the and low cost entry points, to significantly amplify the commercial industry and is focused on discovering big volumes of light oil, follow-up potential in the event of early discoveries.
for premium value, at low finding costs.
Industry-leading success Our focus areas for exploration are Africa and the Atlantic Tullows exploration leadership in the industry was Margins, with Asia providing non-core upside potential.
Our demonstrated again by the Zaedyus-1 discovery in 2011.
This three core plays are giant stratigraphic traps e. g. Ghana, strategic well proved our Atlantic twin basins concept, based on French Guiana and Mauritania, oil-prone rift basins e. g. tectonics, extending the Jubilee play from Ghana across to the Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia and Madagascar and prolific salt corresponding basin on the opposite Atlantic Margin offshore basins e. g. Mauritania, Southern North Sea and Gabon.
French Guiana, and also fide-risked Tullows commanding We have also been building capability to take on a fourth position in the offshore Guyanas.
play, carbonates e. g. Mauritania.
Transformational campaigns We have consistently converted exploration investment into Through investing in years of careful geological evaluation, high-value discoveries.
Our exploration discoveries greatly we have developed numerous high-equity, high-quality enable fund raising and generate vital cash flow through either opportunities which have met our stringent criteria for entry farming down or developing to generate production revenues.
into our current prospect inventory.
For sustainable growth, we are setting up other potentially transformational up-andOur scale grows proportionately with our investment in coming exploration campaigns for our future portfolio.
In exploration and has evolved from individual high-graded prospects Mauritania and Senegal our commanding acreage position and in Tullows early days, through prolific plays, to transformational our in-depth geological studies of new plays have positioned Tullow to move the needle again following any basin opening discoveries.
If we can open these high-impact new plays then the potential for further exploration is really significant.
In Kenya and Ethiopia we have embarked on a complementary T ransformational growth rift basin exploration campaign covering approximately 100,000 has been achieved by square kilometres.
We have covered this unexplored acreage, moving the needle again which is 10 times larger than our Uganda acreage, with the worlds largest ever Full Tensor Gradiometry FTG gravity and again.
Advanced fidelity 2D seismic surveying is ongoing shortage of good and these data are being integrated with the FTG.
Like all exploration ideas, exploration campaigns, our work in Ethiopia and Kenya is opportunities or capability, high-risk but we are hopeful of a breakthrough with the first and our exploration-led few wells planned for 2012.
Numerous leads are currently being growth strategy remains interpreted and the scope for follow-up in our Kenya and Ethiopia acreage, in the event of a breakthrough, could project core to Tullows success.
continuous E&A activities into the middle of the century.
In addition, there are other campaigns under way, including exploration of pre-salt sandstone reservoirs in Tullows offshore Gabon acreage and further exploration in the West Africa Transform Margin where our E&A team is focused on extending the Jubilee play, building on the results which come with each well.
New strategic exploration alliances Tullow is also developing a number of strategic exploration alliances with other E&P companies around complementary exploration skills and opportunities, such as the non-binding, non-exclusive Memorandum of Understanding with Royal Dutch Angus McCoss Shell where we have agreed to jointly investigate certain new Exploration Director frontier exploration opportunities on the Atlantic Margins.
50 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONS REVIEW More information Page 2 Chief Executives review 10 Financial review 34 Corporate responsibility 62 Our medium-term priority is to ensure we do the right things to DEVELOPMENT & OPERATIONS deliver the critical elements that will enable us to maximise the A new scale of activity long-term value and recovery rates from the field.
Tullows exceptional exploration success has provided an exciting and growing portfolio of development and production assets in Further production growth both Africa and South America.
In 2011, we have strengthened Due to the delays in Uganda, the ability to progress development our operational organisation through a new regional business activity was limited during 2011.
With the successful completion structure, comprising West & North Africa, South & East Africa of the farm-down in February 2012, the partnership can now plan and Europe, South America & Asia, which provides focused to accelerate activity with the aim of submitting a PoD to the leadership of our operations.
In addition, we have created a Government of Uganda later this year.
Some small scale new Development and Operations Group at a corporate level production is envisaged to start late 2012 but substantial that combines all our engineering and development functions.
production is expected approximately 36 months after a basinThis is to ensure that Regional Business Units are provided wide PoD is approved by the Government.
Based on this timetable, with world-class technical resources and access to the ramp-up to major production should commence in 2016. most appropriate technologies.
Elsewhere, the exciting discovery made in French Guiana will Excellent EHS performance be appraised in 2012 to allow for an early review of development In 2011, we also delivered an excellent EHS performance with concepts.
In Mauritania, where we took over Operatorship of the the lowest LTIFR in our history, in addition to a best in class C-10 licence this year, we are reviewing concepts to progress FPSO performance in Ghana and no LTIs since its arrival in the Banda oil and gas discovery.
In Namibia, we are continuing Ghanaian waters in June 2010.
Our goal is to consistently to pursue development of the significant Kudu gas field.
In achieve top quartile industry performance and, in line with addition, approximately 40% of our development capital is the new organisation, we have significantly enhanced our invested incrementally in mature producing fields, significantly EHS capability through improvements to our EHS resources, offsetting production decline in these assets.
reporting structures and the introduction of new standards.
The next steps in Ghana Having brought the Jubilee field on production in November 2010, Phase 1 development activities continued throughout 2011 as the final producers and injectors were commissioned T ullows success has and production rates increased.
However, production from always been based on our Jubilee in 2011 was lower than anticipated and this is being remediated through the installation of newly designed well people and their ability to completion equipment.
We anticipate that the issue will be influence our business.
We resolved this year allowing us to achieve plateau production in are evolving our structure 2013.
Production will also be supported by Jubilee Phase 1A in a way that allows these which will include a total of eight additional wells.
Utilising teams to continue to the existing FPSO, acquired in December 2011, the Phase 1A deliver substantial operations are expected to take around 18 months to complete at an estimated cost of $1.1 billion.
During 2011, a successful E&A programme on the TEN cluster enabled Tullow, as Operator, to initiate FEED works in August.
We have established a project office in Singapore and FEED work has been carried out on the FPSO and subsea infrastructure options with a Plan of Development PoD expected to be submitted to the Government of Ghana in the third quarter of this year.
We expect first oil to commence some 30 months after approval with combined production in the region of 100,000 bopd.
Initial gas production will be split between export and re-injection to manage reservoir performance.
2012 working interest production 2012 production is forecast to average between 78,000 and 86,000 boepd with an exit rate of over 90,000 boped expected.
Gross Jubilee production is currently around 70,000 bopd and Paul McDade Chief Operating Officer is expected to average 70,000 to 90,000 bopd in 2012.
