Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2011 1.
General information UBM plc formerly United Business Media Limited is a public company limited by shares incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The address of the registered office is Ogier House, The Esplanade, St. Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey.
UBM plc is tax resident in the Republic of Ireland.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 3.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 were authorised for issue on behalf of the Board of Directors and signed on the Boards behalf by Robert Gray on 28 February 2012.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the functional currency of the parent company, UBM plc.
All amounts are rounded to the nearest 0.1m.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC interpretations.
These financial statements are in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and hedged items that have been measured at fair value.
The carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities that are designated as hedged items in fair value hedges that would otherwise be carried at amortised cost are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged in effective hedge relationships.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
Management continually evaluate these estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available information and experience, as detailed in Note 2.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Refer to page 40 of the Financial Review for further details.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of UBM plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared to the same reporting date as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group by virtue of the Group holding the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally resulting from a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Losses incurred within a subsidiary from 1 January 2010 are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if they result in a deficit balance.
The Group uses the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is classified as a financial liability that is within the scope of IAS 39 is recognised in profit or loss.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities including contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value under the full goodwill method or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Where the full goodwill method is used, the fair value of the non-controlling interest is estimated using a multiples approach with assumed adjustments for the lack of control that market participants would have by reference to the purchase price paid by the Group.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and are included in exceptional items related to acquisitions.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and in the case of business combinations achieved in stages the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in profit or loss.
If a business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
When a disposal results in the Group ceasing to have control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
Where there is a change in ownership of a subsidiary without a change in control held by the Group, the difference between the consideration paid received and the relevant share of the carrying value of net assets acquired disposed of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
80 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued b Joint ventures The Groups interests in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
These are entities over which the Group has entered into a contractual agreement with a third party to share control.
The reporting dates of the joint ventures and the Group are identical and the accounts are prepared on the basis of the Groups accounting policies.
Under the equity method, the income statement reflects the Groups aggregate share of the results of operations of the joint ventures.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the joint ventures other comprehensive income or equity, the Group recognises its share of any such changes.
The investments in joint ventures are carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint ventures.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables that form part of the net investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
c Associates The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
These are entities in which the Group has significant influence through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
The financial statements of the associates are used by the Group to apply the equity method.
The reporting dates of the associates and the Group are identical and the accounts are prepared on the basis of the Groups accounting policies.
Under the equity method, the income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associates.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the associates other comprehensive income or equity, the Group recognises its share of any such changes.
The investments in associates are carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associates.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables that form part of the net investment in the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit and loss.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities.
Management continually evaluate these judgements, estimates and assumptions based on available information and experience.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity in order to apply the Groups accounting policies are: Unrecognised deferred tax assets Note 9 Identification of cash generating units and assumptions used in annual impairment testing of goodwill Note 12 Assumptions used in determining retirement benefit obligations Note 25 Identification of intangible assets arising on business combinations Note 30 The areas requiring management estimates are: Current tax liabilities Taxation accounting policy Note 2 Forecast cash flows used in annual impairment testing of goodwill Note 12 Provision estimation Note 24 Contingent consideration valuations Note 30 and put options over non-controlling interests Note 22 Changes to accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption from 1 January 2011 of the following new, revised and improved IASs, IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations: Improvements to IFRSs 2010 the IASB issued its third collection of minor amendments to standards, each adopted by the Group from 1 January 2011.
None of the amendments are considered to have an immediate impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, although the following amendment may impact the accounting for future transactions: IFRS 3 Business Combinations Measurement of non-controlling interests the choice of measuring non-controlling interests at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees net assets applies only to instruments that represent present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the net assets in the event of liquidation.
All other components of non-controlling interest are measured at fair value unless another measurement basis is required by IFRS.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 81 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The following improvements have affected the disclosures in these financial statements: IFRS 3 Business Combinations Contingent consideration arising from a business combination prior to the adoption of IFRS 3 revised 2008 the improvement clarifies that IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, continue to apply to contingent consideration that arose from business combinations whose acquisition dates precede the application of IFRS 3 revised in 2008 on 1 January 2010.
Disclosures are provided in Note 21.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures the amendment reduces the volume of disclosures around collateral held and requires qualitative information to provide context to quantitative information.
Disclosures for financial instruments are provided in Notes 21 and 22.
Other amendments resulting from Improvements to IFRSs 2010 to the following standards did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group or the disclosures in the financial statements: IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS 1 IFRS 3 Business combinations un-replaced and voluntarily replaced share-based payment awards IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Instruments IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes The following new, revised and amended standards and interpretations have also been adopted from 1 January 2011, but have had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group for 2011 or presentation of these financial statements.
The changes may impact the accounting for future transactions.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The revision amends the definition of a related party.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation classification of rights issues amended, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
The amendment alters the definition of a financial liability to allow rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency to be classified as equity instruments provided the entity offers the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction amended, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The amendment permits prepayments of future service costs where there is a minimum funding requirement, by permitting recognition as a pension asset.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
This interpretation clarifies the requirements of IFRSs when a lender agrees to accept the entitys shares or other equity instruments in settlement of a financial liability in part or in full.
Revenue Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services, net of trade discounts, VAT, other sales related taxes, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: For sales of services, revenue is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered by reference to stage of completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
For sales of goods, revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Where sales consist of two or more independent components whose value can be reliably measured, revenue is recognised on each component as it is completed by performance, based on attribution of relative value.
Events: Revenue is recognised upon event completion.
Advance deposits are recorded as deferred income in the statement of financial position.
PR Newswire formerly Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring : Revenue from news releases is recognised on message delivery.
Revenue from subscriptions is recognised over the life of the subscription.
Data Services: Directories: Linage and advertising revenue is recognised on delivery of the directory and copy sales revenue is recognised on the sale of the directory.
Data services: Revenue from data subscriptions is recognised over the life of the subscription.
Revenue from data projects for immediate delivery is recognised on delivery of the data.
Revenue from data projects is recognised on a percentage completion basis over the life of the project.
Marketing Services Online formerly Online Marketing Services : Revenue is recognised at the point of delivery or fulfilment for single discrete services and over the life of subscriptions for subscription services.
Marketing Services Print formerly Print Magazines : Advertising revenue is recognised on publication.
82 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the income statement, except where hedge accounting is applied and for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated throughout the year at the prevailing monthly exchange rate.
The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a separate component of equity, which was reset to zero on first time adoption of IFRS.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is reclassified from other comprehensive income and the separate component of equity to profit or loss.
Interest and other income a Interest income Income is recognised using the effective interest method: that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
b Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
c Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term on ongoing leases.
Interest expense Interest expense as calculated under the effective interest method directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to prepare for its intended use or sale is capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other interest expense is recognised as finance expense when incurred.
Leases The Group does not have any finance leases.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
a Group as a lessee Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
b Group as a lessor Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Taxation Income tax represents both current tax based on taxable profits, and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent it arises from a transaction or event recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity or a business combination.
Tax relating to transactions or events recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
The Group is a multi-national group with tax matters in many geographical locations.
This inherently leads to complexity to the Groups tax structure and requires estimation and judgement.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The timing of resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
The Group has an accrual for tax liabilities which is measured at the directors estimate of tax that may become payable.
These tax accruals are estimates and the actual amounts and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period such determination is made.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of goodwill for deferred tax liabilities or of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 83 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured as described in the basis of consolidation.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Details of the Groups CGUs are provided in Note 12.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
The impairment test requires management to estimate the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the goodwill relates.
Recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
The value in use of a CGU is measured by discounting the estimated future cash flows of the CGU to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects managements estimate of the weighted average cost of capital of the CGU.
Fair value less costs to sell is measured using an earnings multiple approach which uses revenue and EBITA multiples, obtained from comparable businesses and transactions in comparable business in the professional media sector.
Management is assisted by external advisors in calculating the fair value less costs to sell and value in use of its CGUs.
Further details are given in Note 12.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The goodwill associated with an operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately including website development costs relating to the application and infrastructure development, graphical design and content development stages incurred with third parties are measured on initial recognition at cost.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised in accordance with the accounting policy for business combinations and measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Internally generated intangible assets, including internally generated software, that do not qualify for recognition as an intangible asset under IAS 38 are recognised as an expense in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
All research costs are expensed as incurred.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are measured at cost or fair value at the date of acquisition less any amortisation and any impairment losses.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives as follows: Brands 1015 years Software 56 years Customer contracts and relationships 110 years Subscription lists 25 years Trademarks 10 years Databases 210 years Website development costs 3 years Useful lives are re-examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable are made on a prospective basis.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less any depreciation and any impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on all items except freehold land.
Depreciation rates are calculated so that assets are written down to the residual value in equal annual instalments over their expected useful lives, which are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property Up to 70 years Leasehold improvements Term of lease General plant, machinery and equipment 520 years Computer equipment 35 years Motor vehicles 35 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of the assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
84 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of non-current assets excluding goodwill Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates and other investments are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For purposes of assessing impairment, assets that do not individually generate cash flows are assessed as part of the cash-generating unit to which they belong.
Cash-generating units are the lowest levels for which there are cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows from other assets or groups of assets.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first in first out method and comprises materials and directly attributable production costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, as appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Provisions are estimates and the actual cost and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Management reassesses the amounts of these provisions at each balance sheet date in order to ensure that they are measured at the current best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Any difference between the amounts previously recognised and the current estimates is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Further details are given in Note 24.
Financial instruments Financial assets in the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss derivative financial assets, loans and receivables trade and other payables and cash and cash equivalents, or available-for-sale financial assets other investments.
Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss derivative financial liabilities or financial liabilities at amortised cost borrowings and trade and other payables.
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, and in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, after taking account of directly attributable transaction costs.
a Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 3090 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when there is no expectation of recovery.
b Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Cash equivalents are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
In the consolidated statement of financial position, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
c Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised at original cost.
d Borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost taking into account any differences between the proceeds and the maturity amount, including issue costs and any discounts or premiums due on settlement.
Any difference between the proceeds and the maturity amount is recognised as interest expense in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The amortised cost calculation is revised periodically to reflect changes in the expected cash flows and the expected life of the borrowings including the effects of the exercise of any prepayment, call or similar options.
Any resulting adjustment to the carrying amount of the borrowings is recognised as interest expense in the income statement.
e Other investments The Group classifies its investments at initial recognition as available-for-sale financial assets.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Listed and unlisted investments are stated at fair value except in respect of unquoted equity investments where there is no active market and where the fair value cannot be reliably measured, in which case they are measured at cost less any impairment.
Gains and losses on remeasurement to fair value are included in other comprehensive income until the investment is disposed of or impaired.
On disposal or impairment, the cumulative gains of losses are reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued f Put option arrangements Put option agreements that allow non-controlling interest shareholders to require the Group to purchase the non-controlling interest are treated as derivatives over equity instruments in accordance with IAS 39.
The options are initially recognised at fair value within derivative financial liabilities, with a corresponding charge directly to equity, recognised separately as put options over non-controlling interests.
The fair value is based on the present value of expected cash outflows on forecasted future earnings, which would be payable on exercise of the option.
Subsequent changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement within financing income expense other.
g Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the owners of the Company.
h Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market rates of interest.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting, as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction: or as a hedge of net investment in foreign operations.
More details on the Groups hedges are given in Note 21.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
For fair value hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions are recognised directly as other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve.
Amounts deferred in this way are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitments or forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Net investment hedges take the form of foreign currency borrowings and forward currency contracts.
All foreign exchange gains or losses arising on translation of net investments are recorded in other comprehensive income and included in cumulative translation differences.
Borrowings and forward currency contracts used as hedging instruments in a net investment hedge are revalued at closing exchange rates.
The resulting gains or losses are taken to other comprehensive income to the extent that they are effective, with any ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income are retained until the forecast transaction occurs, when they are transferred to profit or loss.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset is derecognised where: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to pay.
86 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as derecognition of the original liability and recognition of a new liability, and the difference between the carrying amounts of the original liability and the fair value of the new liability is recognised in the income statement.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
For the defined contribution schemes, the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of employee service rendered during the accounting period are recognised as an expense in that period.
For the defined benefit pension schemes, the liability for the benefits earned by employees in return for service rendered in the current and prior periods is determined using the projected unit credit method as determined annually by independent qualified actuaries.
This is based upon a number of financial assumptions, the determination of which is significant to the balance sheet valuation.
These are set out and discussed in Note 25.
The following are charged to operating profit: the increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities arising from employee service in the current period: the increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities as a result of benefit improvements over the period during which such improvements vest: and gains and losses arising on settlements curtailments.
A credit in respect of the expected return on the schemes' assets and a charge in respect of the increase during the period in the present value of the schemes' liabilities because the benefits are one period closer to settlement are shown in the income statement as Financing income Pension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in other comprehensive income.
Defined benefit pension surpluses are recognised where scheme rules indicate that such surpluses are recoverable by the Group in the form of either an unconditional right to refund if the scheme were to be wound up or reductions in future contributions.
Surpluses are expected to be recoverable under all of the UK defined benefit pension schemes.
The minimum funding requirement of the UK defined benefit schemes is included in the assessment of whether an IAS 19 surplus is expected to emerge.
Future tax payable on surplus refunds is shown as an irrecoverable surplus.
Adjustments to the amount of irrecoverable surplus are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Share-based payments Employees including directors of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
Equity-settled transactions The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to all grants of equity instruments made after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date of the equity instruments granted.
The fair value is determined by an external advisor using the Black Scholes or Monte Carlo methods as appropriate, and takes into account any market vesting conditions or non vesting conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the periods in which the vesting conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition or a non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as described below.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense or increase in equity is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions i. e. vesting conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the entity or the employees are not met.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 87 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Future changes in accounting policies The following new IFRSs and amended IASs have been issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2011 and are expected to impact the Groups financial statements upon adoption: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments the requirements of IFRS 9 complete the classification and measurement phase of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Financial assets will be classified using a single approach to determine whether measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules under IAS 39.
Liabilities will be measured in accordance with the existing requirements of IAS 39, but with a change for measuring own credit: an entity choosing to measure a liability at fair value will present the portion of the change in its fair value due to changes in the entitys own credit risk in other comprehensive income, rather than in the income statement.
The new standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets.
The Group will quantify the effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets and liabilities in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive position.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and related amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements replaces the portion of IAS 27 that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
It establishes a single control model for establishing whether entities should be consolidated by a parent, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this new standard.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities this new standard contains a number of additional disclosure requirements in relation to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement a new standard which establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements including additional disclosures, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amended the amendment revises the presentation of other comprehensive income so that items that could be reclassified to profit or loss at a future point in time are presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012 and affects presentation only.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits amended the amendments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, include the removal of the corridor mechanism and the concept of expected returns on plan assets, as well as other clarifications and wording changes.
As the Group does not apply the corridor mechanism, this amendment will not impact the financial position or performance of the Group.
The expected return on assets and interest cost based on the discount rate are replaced with net interest on the item in the statement of financial position.
As the Groups schemes are currently in deficit, this amendment will result in a financing expense being recognised, rather than the current financing income.
The following new and amended IFRSs and amendments to IASs have been issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2011 and are not expected to impact the Groups financial statements upon adoption: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amended transfer transactions of financial assets, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and related amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates a new standard replacing IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The new standard revises the types of joint arrangements to only joint ventures or joint operations and removes the option to account for formerly defined jointly controlled entities using proportionate consolidation.
As the Group applies the equity method to such entities, no change is expected to the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 12 Income Taxes amended, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements amended renamed and consequential amendments following the issue of IFRS 10, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures amended renamed and consequential amendments following the issue of IFRS 11, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendment addresses inconsistencies in current practice when applying the offsetting criteria by clarifying the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off and that some gross settlement systems may be considered equivalent to net settlement.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Amendments have been endorsed by the European Union: all other new and amended standards have not yet been endorsed.
88 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 3.
Segment information Operating segments The chief operating decision maker CODM for the purpose of reporting under IFRS 8 Operating segments is the executive management team the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The Group operates in a number of different markets and communities and considers that presentation of financial results on a products and services basis is the most appropriate way to demonstrate the performance of the Group.
For the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance, the CODM regularly reviews information based on the products and services at a revenue and adjusted operating profit level as detailed below.
Consistent with reporting for the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group considers there to be five reportable operating segments organised around products and services: Events which provide face to face interaction in the form of exhibitions, trade shows, conferences and other live events: PR Newswire formerly Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring which operates in the targeting and distribution of company information and the evaluation of its impact on targeted audiences: Data Services which provide a range of services including data-based workflow products, intellectual property consultancy and analytical services and sales lead generation program: Marketing Services Online formerly Online Marketing Services which provides website sponsorships and banner advertising as well as online directory products: and Marketing Services Print formerly Print Magazines which publishes magazines and trade press to specialist markets.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable segments.
The Groups management reporting and controlling systems use the accounting policies that are the same as those referred to in Note 2.
Segment measures The Group measures the performance of its operating segments through revenue results and a measure of segment profit or loss which is referred to as adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on results of joint ventures and associates.
This measure is reported to the CODM for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of performance.
Finance income expense and taxation are not included in the adjusted operating profit measure which is reviewed by the CODM.
Tax and treasury balances are managed centrally.
Segment assets and liabilities are not regularly provided to the CODM.
The Group has elected, as provided under IFRS 8 Operating segments amended 2009 not to disclose a measure of segment assets or liabilities where these amounts are not regularly provided to the CODM.
Intersegment revenue is recorded at values that represent estimated third-party selling prices.
With respect to geographical regions, revenue is generally allocated to countries based on the location where the products and services are provided.
Non-current assets are disclosed according to the location of the businesses to which the assets relate.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 89 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2011 Depreciation including Share of amortisation pre-tax Segment of website results from adjusted External Intersegment Total development JVs and operating revenue revenue revenue costs associates profit loss m m m m m m Events 396.9 0.5 397.4 5.5 1.2 135.2 PR Newswire 187.8 0.5 188.3 5.6 0.9 41.0 Data Services 187.0 187.0 2.6 0.6 30.3 Marketing Services Online 88.5 88.5 1.2 3.6 Marketing Services Print 112.1 112.1 1.6 0.3 6.1 Total segments 972.3 1.0 973.3 16.5 2.4 216.2 Corporate costs 0.3 1.2 18.1 Internal cost recoveries and sundry income 3.8 Eliminations 1.0 1.0 972.3 972.3 16.8 3.6 201.9 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 37.5 Exceptional items relating to acquisitions 4.6 Impairment charge 3.7 Share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates 0.7 Group operating profit 155.4 Interest income 1.1 Interest expense 28.7 Financing income 3.1 Financing income other 1.2 Financing expense other 0.7 Exceptional items relating to financing income expense 29.4 Profit before tax 102.0 T otal corporate costs for 2011 were 19.3m 2010: 15.9m, before share of pre-tax results from JVs and associates.
The corporate costs are offset by internal cost recoveries from the Groups operating businesses and by sundry income which is not attributable to any of the Groups operations.
90 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2010 Depreciation including Share of amortisation pre-tax Segment of website results from adjusted External Intersegment Total development JVs and operating revenue revenue revenue costs associates profit loss m m m m m m Events 310.0 0.5 310.5 4.5 2.0 93.5 PR Newswire 181.2 0.4 181.6 5.7 1.0 42.1 Data Services 184.7 184.7 2.7 0.3 34.1 Marketing Services Online 69.2 69.2 1.0 1.3 Marketing Services Print 144.1 144.1 2.1 10.0 Total segments 889.2 0.9 890.1 16.0 3.3 181.0 Corporate costs 0.4 0.3 15.6 Internal cost recoveries and sundry income 6.4 Eliminations 0.9 0.9 889.2 889.2 16.4 3.6 171.8 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 27.8 Exceptional reorganisation and restructuring costs 5.8 Exceptional items relating to acquisitions 5.1 Share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates 0.8 Group operating profit 132.3 Interest income 0.7 Interest expense 19.4 Financing income 3.3 Financing income other 1.2 Financing expense other 2.6 Profit before tax 115.5 Revenue by products and services Revenue from external customers analysed by products and services is given in the above segment tables.
The Groups reportable segments are organised around products and services provided to external customers.
There are no revenues derived from a single external customer which are significant.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 91 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segment information continued Geographic information Revenues from external customers Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m United Kingdom 122.1 129.4 Foreign countries: United States and Canada 466.8 413.8 Europe 143.2 145.7 China 146.0 112.2 1 Emerging markets 61.1 54.4 Rest of the world 33.1 33.7 850.2 759.8 Total revenue 972.3 889.2 1 Emerging markets constituents are the non-G10 countries most notably for the Group: Brazil, India, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Mexico and UAE.
Non-current assets 2011 2010 m m United Kingdom 286.8 262.3 Foreign countries: United States and Canada 672.8 684.3 Europe 220.8 244.0 China 31.7 29.1 Emerging markets 90.9 56.5 Rest of the world 6.9 6.9 1,023.1 1,020.8 Total non-current assets 1,309.9 1,283.1 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investments in joint ventures and associates and other investments.
Other operating income 2011 2010 m m Rental income 4.8 4.1 Other income 5.0 2.9 9.8 7.0 92 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 5.
Operating expenses 2011 2010 m m Amortisation of website development costs Note 13 2.4 0.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 14 14.4 15.6 Employee costs Note 6 355.7 313.7 Cost of inventories recognised as expense Note 17 11.4 14.2 Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense 28.3 29.4 Auditors remuneration 1.4 1.4 Publishing direct costs 69.9 89.2 Event production costs 163.0 123.9 Newswire distribution costs 47.4 40.9 Cost of advertising and promotion 28.4 56.8 Other cost of sales and administration costs 61.5 42.1 783.8 728.0 Included within other cost of sales and administration costs is a charge of 3.9m 2010: 4.9m in relation to the provisions for irrecoverability of trade receivables.
Auditors remuneration 2011 2010 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.8 0.7 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Tax services 0.1 0.2 1.4 1.4 Details of the Group policy on non-audit work undertaken by the Groups auditor are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 69.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 93 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Employee costs 2011 2010 m m Wages and salaries 294.4 257.3 Social security costs 49.2 45.6 Directors and employees share-based payments Note 28 5.8 3.5 Pension costs defined contribution plans 5.7 6.4 Pension costs defined benefit plans Note 25 0.6 0.9 355.7 313.7 Employees The number of persons employed in the Group, including directors, was as follows: Average Year end Average Year end 2011 2011 2010 2010 Location United Kingdom 1,336 1,329 1,281 1,299 Americas 2,745 2,736 2,485 2,812 Europe and Middle East 620 618 729 723 Asia Pacific 1,864 1,951 1,646 1,756 6,565 6,634 6,141 6,590 Operating segments Events 1,626 1,699 1,320 1,463 PR Newswire 1,115 1,130 1,057 1,084 Data Services 1,980 1,958 1,779 1,817 Marketing Services Online 582 590 539 566 Marketing Services Print 1,148 1,134 1,352 1,559 Corporate operations 114 123 94 101 6,565 6,634 6,141 6,590 Directors remuneration 2011 2010 m m Fees 0.6 0.6 Remuneration and benefits in kind 1.4 1.1 Bonuses 1.4 1.5 Contributions to pension schemes 0.1 3.4 3.3 Details of executive and non-executive directors remuneration and their interest in shares and options of the Company are shown within the directors remuneration report in the sections Directors remuneration, Directors pension provision, Awards under long term incentive plans and share options and Directors interests in shares.
94 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 7.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are presented separately as, due to their nature or for the infrequency of the events giving rise to them, this allows shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance for the year, to facilitate comparison with prior periods, and to assess better the trends of financial performance.
2011 2010 m m Charged credited to operating profit Vacant property costs 1.1 Redundancy 3.0 Restructuring and business reorganisation costs 1.7 Exceptional reorganisation and restructuring costs 5.8 Integration costs 3.6 Acquisition costs on business combinations 2.9 6.1 Changes in estimates of contingent consideration 1.9 1.0 Exceptional items relating to acquisitions 4.6 5.1 Impairment of joint ventures and associates Note 15 3.1 Impairment of other investments Note 16 0.6 Impairment charge 3.7 Total charged to operating profit 8.3 10.9 Charged to profit before tax Re-assessment of amortised cost carrying amount of 53.1m floating rate reset loans Note 20 8.5 Fair value movement on put options over non-controlling interests Note 8 1.8 Fair value loss on redemption of 75m floating rate reset bonds Note 8 19.1 Total charged to profit before tax 29.4 Total charged to profit for the year 37.7 10.9 Charged credited to operating profit Year ended 31 December 2011 In 2011, the Group made significant progress in the integration of UBM Canon formerly Canon Communications LLC, acquired in October 2010.
The exceptional charge of 3.6m includes 2.0m relating to redundancy and 1.6m relating to business reorganisation costs.
Following the adoption of IFRS 3 revised 2008 from 1 January 2010, acquisition costs of 2.9m have been expensed, rather than included in the calculation of goodwill on acquisition.
For the year ended 31 December 2011 a further exceptional credit of 1.9m was recognised, relating to the revision of the contingent consideration estimates for acquisitions made in 2010 and 2011.
Details of the acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2011 are given in Note 30.
The carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates and other investments have been impaired by 3.1m and 0.6m respectively.
Year ended 31 December 2010 During 2010 the Group continued to actively manage its product portfolio, closing or exiting 13 print magazine titles and reducing the frequency of two others.
The Group also made further progress in the restructuring of a number of its businesses, particularly within the Data Services segment.
The exceptional charge of 5.8m included 3.0m relating to redundancy, 1.7m relating to restructuring and business reorganisation costs and 1.1m relating to vacant property.
Of the redundancy and restructuring costs charged, 3.2m was incurred in 2010 and the balance was committed to be incurred in 2011.
The property costs of 1.1m related to vacant property and other property costs, which will be incurred over the remainder of the lease terms.
Following the adoption of IFRS 3 revised 2008 from 1 January 2010, acquisition costs of 6.1m were expensed, rather than included in the calculation of goodwill on acquisition as previously required by the standard.
Of this cost, 3.3m related to the costs incurred in respect of the acquisition of Canon Communications LLC.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 a further exceptional net credit of 1.0m was recognised, relating to revised contingent consideration estimates for acquisitions made in 2010.
Details of the acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2010 are given in Note 30.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 95 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Finance income expense Before Before exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Interest income Cash and cash equivalents 1.1 1.1 0.7 0.7 Interest expense Borrowings and loans 27.8 8.5 36.3 18.2 18.2 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 1.2 Total interest expense for financial liabilities not classified at fair value through profit or loss 28.7 8.5 37.2 19.4 19.4 Financing income Pension schemes 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.2 Foreign exchange gain on forward contracts 0.1 0.1 3.1 3.1 3.3 3.3 Financing income other Foreign exchange gain on forward contracts 1.2 1.2 Fair value movement on interest rate swaps 8.9 8.9 Fair value movement on 250m bond 7.9 7.9 Ineffectiveness on fair value hedges Note 21 1.0 1.0 Other fair value adjustments 0.2 0.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 Financing expense other Foreign exchange loss on forward contracts 0.2 0.2 Ineffectiveness on net investment hedges Note 21 2.3 2.3 Fair value movement on interest rate swaps 7.8 7.8 Fair value movement on 250m bond 8.1 8.1 Ineffectiveness on fair value hedges Note 21 0.3 0.3 Fair value movement on interest rate swaps 11.2 11.2 3.0 3.0 Fair value movement on $350m bond 11.6 11.6 2.9 2.9 Ineffectiveness on fair value hedges Note 21 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.1 Fair value movement on put options over non-controlling interests Note 7 1.8 1.8 Fair value loss on redemption of 75m floating rate reset bonds Note 7 19.1 19.1 0.7 20.9 21.6 2.6 2.6 Net finance expense 24.0 29.4 53.4 16.8 16.8 The ineffectiveness on fair value hedges represents the difference between the fair value movement of the interest rate swaps designated as hedge instruments and the fair value movement of the hedged portions of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds and the $350m fixed rate dollar bonds Note 21.
The exceptional interest expense within borrowings and loans relates to the reassessment of amortised cost carrying amount of the 53.1m floating rate reset loans.
Further details are provided in Note 20.
Exceptional financing expense other comprise: 1.8m relating to the fair value movement on put options over non-controlling interests.
In September 2011, UBM redeemed the 75m floating rate reset bonds.
As provided under their terms, the Group has also paid the fair market value of the options associated with the bonds, totalling 19.1m.
This resulting loss has been included in exceptional financing expense other.
96 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 9.
Taxation Major components of income tax charge for the year are: 2011 2010 m m Consolidated income statement Current tax: Current tax charge 25.6 22.7 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 9.7 6.6 Income tax charge 15.9 16.1 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income Current tax Deferred tax Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income The amounts relating to current tax recognised in the statement of financial position are: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 69.6 109.0 Acquisitions Note 30 1.1 Current tax charge 25.6 22.7 Tax paid 29.9 62.1 Foreign exchange and other movements 0.5 At 31 December 65.9 69.6 The Group does not expect the tax cash outflow in respect of this creditor in 2012 to exceed 10.0m.
Factors affecting tax charge for the year A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before tax at the statutory tax rate to tax expense for the year ended 31 December is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Profit before tax 102.0 115.5 Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in Republic of Ireland of 12.5% 2010: 12.5% 12.8 14.4 Effect of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 14.8 10.3 Origination and reversal of temporary differences not recognised 17.7 20.0 Different tax rates on overseas earnings 25.8 25.3 Share of results from associates and joint ventures after tax 0.9 0.7 Tax effect of items not recognised in consolidated financial statements 17.7 11.5 Non-taxable income 1.2 1.7 Income tax charge reported in the consolidated income statement 15.9 16.1 The Group has assessed the impact of changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions in which it operates and has determined that the changes do not have a significant impact on the current or future tax charges.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 97 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Taxation continued Deferred tax The amounts relating to deferred tax recognised in the financial statements are: Consolidated statement Consolidated of financial position income statement 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Intangible assets acquired 43.4 48.2 9.7 6.6 Other temporary differences 1.5 1.5 44.9 49.7 9.7 6.6 At 31 December 2011, there was no recognised deferred tax liability for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries as the Group has determined that profits of these subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised amount in aggregate to 6.0bn 2010: 5.6bn.
There are no income tax consequences to the Group arising from the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
The movement in the net deferred tax liability was as follows: 2011 2010 m m Net liability at 1 January 49.7 27.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries Note 30 7.0 28.9 Disposal of subsidiaries Note 31 2.2 Amounts credited to net profit 9.7 6.6 Currency translation 0.1 0.3 Net liability at 31 December 44.9 49.7 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 55.6m relating to deductible temporary differences and 148.1m of which 102.7m will expire between 2019 and 2031 relating to unused tax losses 2010: 76.8m and 134.9m of which 90.5m will expire between 2019 and 2030 respectively.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these amounts due to the unpredictability of future taxable profit streams.
The Group also has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 51.6m 2010: 55.4m relating to unused capital losses which can only be utilised against future capital gains.
98 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 10.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent entity by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year reflecting the movements set out in Note 26.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to owners of the parent entity by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year adjusted for the effects of dilutive options.
The Group has one category of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
The impact of dilutive securities in 2011 would be to increase weighted average shares by 4.3 million shares 2010: 4.2 million shares for employee share options.
The weighted average number of shares excludes ordinary shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan the ESOP and the Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust the QUEST.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent entity before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and net financing income expense other, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and net financing income expense other are excluded from this calculation, as due to their nature and the infrequency of the events giving rise to them, separate presentation allows shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance for the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better the trends of financial performance.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: Weighted Weighted average no.
Earnings Earnings of shares per share Earnings of shares per share 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m million pence m million pence Adjusted Group operating profit 201.9 171.8 Net interest expense 27.6 18.7 Financing income 3.1 3.3 Adjusted profit before tax 177.4 156.4 Taxation 26.3 23.5 Non-controlling interests 10.4 8.6 Adjusted earnings per share 140.7 243.5 57.8 124.3 243.4 51.0 Adjustments Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 37.5 15.4 27.8 11.4 Deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets 9.7 4.0 6.6 2.8 Adjustments in respect of non-tax exceptional items 37.7 15.5 10.9 4.6 Net financing income expense other 0.5 0.2 1.4 0.5 Basic earnings per share 75.7 243.5 31.1 90.8 243.4 37.3 Dilution Options 4.3 0.5 4.2 0.6 Diluted earnings per share 75.7 247.8 30.6 90.8 247.6 36.7 Adjusted earnings per share as above 140.7 243.5 57.8 124.3 243.4 51.0 Options 4.3 1.0 4.2 0.8 Diluted adjusted earnings per share 140.7 247.8 56.8 124.3 247.6 50.2 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 99 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Dividends 2011 2010 m m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares Second interim dividend for 2010 of 19.0p 2009 of 18.2p 46.2 44.3 Interim dividend for 2011 of 6.3p 2010: 6.0p 15.3 14.6 61.5 58.9 Proposed not recognised as a liability at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares Second interim dividend for 2011 of 20.0p 2010: 19.0p 48.7 46.2 The proposed second interim dividend has not been recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
Pursuant to the Dividend Access Plan DAP arrangements put in place as part of the Scheme of Arrangement, shareholders in the Company are able to elect to receive their dividends from a UK source the DAP election.
Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer shares i on the date of admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own the shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they become shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the DAP arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make a DAP election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made a DAP election, or are deemed to have made a DAP election, dividends will be received from an Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
Goodwill Goodwill is allocated and monitored by management at a cash generating unit CGU level, consisting of the 13 business units operating within each of the Groups operating segments.
Not all business units are active in all segments: there are 31 CGUs at 31 December 2011 2010: 31 CGUs.
For reporting purposes, the CGUs have been aggregated into the reportable segments, as shown in the tables below.
The 31 CGUs have been individually tested for impairment in 2011.
The purchase price allocation exercise was completed in 2010: in 2011 the allocation of goodwill to CGUs has been finalised due to the access to more detailed information on the constituent parts of the business.
Within the aggregate Events goodwill, the Group considers the UBM T echWeb Events and UBM Live Events CGUs to be significant.
The carrying value of goodwill attributed to these CGUs at 31 December 2011 was 171.5m and 339.0m respectively 2010: 168.9m and 292.5m respectively.
Within the aggregate Data Services goodwill above, the Group considers the UBM Medica Data Services CGU to be significant.
The carrying value of UBM Medica Data Services goodwill at 31 December 2011 was 192.0m 2010: 196.0m.
The PR Newswire CGU as reported above is also considered to be significant.
100 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 12.
Management tests goodwill annually for impairment as at 30 September each year or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill may be impaired.
31 December 2011 The carrying amount of each CGU is compared with its estimated value in use.
In calculating the value in use of its CGUs, management is assisted by the work of external advisors.
31 December 2010 The carrying amount of each CGU was compared with its fair value less costs to sell.
In addition, the carrying amount of each CGU: UBM Medica Data Services, UBM T echW eb Events and UBM Aviation Data Services was compared with its value in use.
Value in use impairment test The value in use of a CGU is measured by discounting the estimated future cash flows of the CGU to its present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects managements estimate of the weighted average cost of capital of the CGU.
The following key assumptions used by management in the value in use calculation for the above mentioned CGUs: Pre-tax Perpetuity discount rate growth rate % % Cash flow forecasts Events 11.514.3 1.33.5 Event revenue is expected to continue to grow strongly with continued expansion in Emerging markets.
Continued steady growth of the core wire distribution, engagement and workflow data businesses.
PR Newswire 11.7 2.0 Continued expansion in high growth markets such as China.
Continued investment in products, technology and in sales and marketing to drive continued growth in the changing competitive and technological environments.
The continued rebalancing of the product portfolio with migration from print to digital.
Data Services 11.514.8 1.33.2 Margin improvements due to restructuring and business reorganisation plans, that have taken place or which have been committed to in 2011.
Each restructuring program aims to either rebalance the product portfolios to better meet the needs of customers and audiences, or to ensure the support platforms and divisional structures are cost efficient.
Improvements are undertaken by a combination of cost reductions and ongoing expenditure to continue to enhance the data products.
The cash flow projections take into account these margin improvements.
They do not include any cash flows relating to restructuring not carried out or committed at the time of the impairment test.
Marketing Services Online 11.412.0 1.31.7 The continued rebalancing of the product portfolio, away from print to digital.
Marketing Services Print 11.512.3 1.32.5 The continued rationalisation and optimisation of the print portfolio with a number of non-core titles now either closed or sold expected to result in stabilisation of print margins.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 101 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Goodwill continued Forecast cash flows For each CGU, the forecast cash flows for the first five years are based on the most recent financial budgets and forecasts approved by management.
The forecast cash flows, budgets and forecasts based on assumptions that reflect past experience, long term trends, industry forecasts and growth rates and management estimates.
The table above summarises the key assumptions specific to each group of CGUs.
For each CGU, the forecast cash flows beyond the period covered by the most recent financial budgets and forecasts approved by management are based upon the weighted average projected real gross domestic product growth rate in 2015 of each of the territories in which the CGUs operate 2010: 2014.
Growth rates for each territory have been weighted based on contribution to 2012 budgeted revenue 2010: contribution to 2011 budgeted revenue.
The growth rates used in the value in use calculation range from 1.3% to 3.5%, depending on the territories and industries in which each CGU operates.
Discount rate The discount rate for each CGU is based on the risk-free rate for 30-year US government bonds in the respective market, adjusted for a risk premium to reflect the increased risk of investing in equities, the systematic risk of the specific CGU and taking into account the relative size of the CGU and the specific territories in which it operates.
The increased risk of investing in equities is assessed using an equity market risk premium which reflects the increased return required over and above a risk free rate by an investor who is investing in the whole market.
The equity market risk premium used is based on studies by independent economists and historical equity market risk premiums.
The risk adjustment for the systematic risk, beta, of the CGU reflects the risks specific to the CGU for which the forecast cash flows have not been adjusted.
The adjustment to the rate has been determined by management using an average of the betas of comparable companies within respective sectors.
Details of the pre-tax discount rates used for each CGU are provided in the table above.
Sensitivities Other than as disclosed below, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying amount of any CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
The estimated recoverable amounts of the following CGUs are not significantly higher than the carrying amounts.
The table shows the carrying amount of each CGU with limited headroom, the amount by which recoverable amount exceeds carrying amount the headroom and the reasonably possible percentage changes needed in isolation in each of the key assumptions that would cause the recoverable amount of each CGU to be equal to its carrying amount.
31 December 2011 Change needed in assumption to reduce recoverable amount to carrying value Goodwill Headroom 30 above Applied preApplied Pre-tax Perpetuity September carrying Applied cash tax discount perpetuity Cash flow five discount rate growth rate 2011 amount flow forecast rate growth rate year forecast percentage percentage m m % % % % points points UBM Medica Events 5.0 2.0 22.5 14.0 3.5 28.0 3.4 3.9 UBM Medica Data Services 200.0 31.5 4.9 11.8 3.2 13.0 1.3 1.3 UBM Aviation Data Services 27.0 5.0 9.4 13.9 2.8 15.0 2.0 2.1 UBM Global Trade Data Services 26.0 4.5 17.7 14.8 1.3 16.0 2.0 2.6 The cash flow forecasts are expressed as the compound average growth rates in the initial five year forecasts of the plans used for impairment testing.
31 December 2010 Change needed in assumption to reduce recoverable amount to carrying value Goodwill Headroom 30 above Applied preApplied Pre-tax Perpetuity September carrying Applied cash tax discount perpetuity Cash flow five discount rate growth rate 2010 amount flow forecast rate growth rate year forecast percentage percentage m m % % % % points points UBM Medica Data Services 196.3 36.2 1.1 10.5 3.5 15.0 2.1 1.5 UBM TechWeb Events 167.9 16.5 0.4 11.5 3.5 9.0 1.5 2.0 UBM Aviation Data Services 26.9 18.0 1.8 11.9 2.8 n a n a n a Fair value less costs to sell impairment test The fair value less costs to sell of each CGU was measured in 2010 based on an earnings multiple approach using revenue and EBITA multiples obtained from comparable businesses and transactions in comparable businesses in the professional media sector.
A discount to the multiples from the peer group has been applied due to the smaller size of the CGUs compared to the peer group.
The multiples ranged from 0.1 to 3.3 for revenue and 0.7 to 12.3 for EBITA.
The calculation used actual sales and EBITA results for 2010 and forecast sales and EBITA for 2011, based upon financial budgets approved by management.
Costs to sell are estimated to be 3% of the value of a CGU, based on experience of prior disposals by the Group.
In the determination of fair value less costs to sell in 2010, the calculations of fair value are most sensitive to the precedent transaction multiples used.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of each CGU.
102 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 13.
For intangible assets arising on acquisitions, the associated amortisation charge is included in a separate line item in the income statement since these charges do not form part of adjusted Group operating profit as defined below the income statement.
The remaining useful lives of material individual intangible assets are: Canon brands nine years 2010: ten years, Canon customer contracts and relationships five years 2010: six years and Canon databases nine years 2010: ten years.
For all other intangible assets, the average remaining useful lives for the brands and customer contracts and relationships intangible assets is seven years and five years respectively 2010: seven years and five years respectively.
The average remaining useful lives for the other classes of intangible assets is six years 2010: seven years.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 103 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Property, plant and equipment continued Land and buildings at net book amount comprise: 2011 2010 m m Freehold 0.7 0.7 Long leasehold 0.9 1.1 Leasehold improvements 18.6 17.5 Carrying value 20.2 19.3 15.
Investments in joint ventures and associates a Carrying amount Joint Joint ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m At 1 January 14.6 5.2 19.8 12.9 4.1 17.0 Additions 0.3 0.3 1.1 1.1 Acquisition of controlling interest Note 30 0.3 0.3 Share of profit after tax 1.8 1.1 2.9 2.5 0.3 2.8 Share of items taken to other comprehensive income 0.4 0.4 Dividends received 1.2 0.1 1.3 0.6 0.6 Impairment charge Note 7 3.1 3.1 Disposals 0.6 0.6 Currency translation 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 12.1 6.2 18.3 14.6 5.2 19.8 The addition in 2011 relates to the retained 34.55% equity interest following the sale of the Groups French medical newspaper and magazine business, as detailed in Note 31.
On 1 January 2010, the Group entered into joint venture arrangement with GML Enterprise Thailand Co. Limited to own a 49.0% interest in GML Exhibition Thailand Co. Limited, an events business in the defence and securities industries operating in Thailand.
On 15 September 2010, the Group acquired a 36% equity holding in Beijing Zhong Wen Fa International Cultural Exchange Co. Limited, an industry events business, for cash consideration of $1.6m 1.0m.
Events organised include the China International Digital Content Expo DigiChina.
The Group accounts for Beijing Zhong Wen Fa International Cultural Exchange Co. Limited as an associate as it exercises significant influence through representation of two out of five members on the Board of Directors, participates in policy-making processes and provides essential technical information.
On 29 November 2010, the Group disposed of the CMP W eka Verlag GmbH joint venture for total consideration of 2.0m 1.7m.
Profit on disposal of 1.1m was recognised within Other operating income.
Investments in joint ventures and associates at 31 December 2011 include goodwill of 4.4m and 7.8m respectively 2010: 7.6m and 6.8m respectively.
Investments in joint ventures and associates include amortisation of intangible assets of nil 2010: nil.
b Joint ventures The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups interests in joint ventures assets, liabilities, income and expenses: 2011 2010 m m Current assets 8.6 7.1 Non-current assets 4.1 3.3 Current liabilities 4.5 2.6 Non-current liabilities 0.5 1.1 Income 8.5 8.8 Expenses 6.7 6.2 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 105 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued The principal joint ventures at 31 December 2011 are as follows: Country of Share Type of incorporation Class of holding Accounting Company Segment business and operation shares held interest year end ANP Pers Support BV PR Newswire News Netherlands Ordinary 50.0% 31 December Distribution eMedia Asia Limited Events, Marketing Exhibitions, Barbados Asia Ordinary 39.9% 31 December Services Online, publications and Marketing and online Services Print GML Exhibitions Thailand Co Ltd Events Exhibitions Thailand Ordinary 49.0% 31 December Guangzhou Beauty Fair Events Exhibitions China Ordinary 27.5% 31 December Securex Events Exhibitions South Africa Ordinary 50.0% 31 December c Associates The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups interests in associates assets, liabilities, income and expenses: 2011 2010 m m Current assets 8.2 8.9 Non-current assets 10.1 9.5 Current liabilities 9.2 9.1 Non-current liabilities 10.7 11.6 Income 46.7 35.6 Expenses 45.6 35.3 The following represents the summarised total financial information of the Groups associates assets, liabilities, income and expenses: 2011 2010 m m Current assets 42.2 46.0 Non-current assets 56.8 53.4 Current liabilities 48.9 48.3 Non-current liabilities 54.9 60.3 Income 222.6 187.5 Expenses 218.2 187.1 Details of the Groups associates at 31 December 2011 are as follows: Country of Share Type of incorporation Class of holding Accounting Company Segment business and operation shares held interest year end Axilog S. A.
Data Services Publications France Ordinary 25.1% 31 December Beijing Zhong Wen Fa International Cultural Events Exhibitions China Ordinary 36.0% 31 December Exchange Co. Limited eXalt Solutions Inc Data Services Web-based United States A preferred 25.0% 31 December sales services Janus SAS Marketing Services Publications France Ordinary 34.6% 31 December Print Independent Television News Limited Corporate Operations Broadcasting Great Britain Ordinary 20.0% 31 December PA Group Limited Corporate Operations News distribution Great Britain Ordinary 17.0% 31 December 106 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 16.
Other Investments 2011 2010 m m Unlisted shares 0.6 The unlisted shares are measured at cost less any provision for impairment as there is no active market for these investments and their fair values cannot be reliably measured.
The Group classifies its other investments as available for sale.
During 2011, other investments were impaired by 0.6m Note 7.
Inventories 2011 2010 m m Raw materials and consumables paper stock 1.3 2.2 Work in progress 4.8 5.4 Finished goods and goods for resale 0.2 0.2 Total inventories 6.3 7.8 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 11.4m 2010: 14.2m.
The total write-down of inventories included in cost of sales is nil 2010: nil.
Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 m m Trade receivables 152.9 143.5 Less: provision for impairment on receivables 6.1 6.0 Trade receivables net 146.8 137.5 Other receivables 37.4 32.4 Prepayments and accrued income 40.7 34.2 Pension prepayments defined contribution schemes 2.9 4.5 227.8 208.6 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 6.0 4.7 Provision for receivables impairment 3.9 4.9 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 3.9 3.7 Currency translation 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 6.1 6.0 Amounts provided for impaired trade receivables during the year have been included in other cost of sales and administration costs in the income statement Note 5.
Amounts provided are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
There is no provision for other receivables.
As of 31 December 2011, gross trade receivables of 6.1m 2010: 6.2m were impaired.
The amount of the provision was 6.1m at the balance sheet date 2010: 6.0m.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Under three months 0.9 2.2 Three to six months 5.2 4.0 6.1 6.2 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 107 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Trade and other receivables continued As of 31 December 2011, trade receivables of 15.6m 2010: 29.2m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Under three months 12.9 20.5 Three to six months 2.7 8.7 15.6 29.2 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
Financial assets 2011 2010 m m Current Forward currency contracts 0.1 0.1 Non-current Interest rate swaps 23.3 6.8 Available for sale financial assets Note 16 0.6 23.3 7.4 The Group classifies all its derivative financial instruments as fair value through profit and loss.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge, or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
Further details are given in Note 21.
The Group only enters into derivative contracts with major banks of high quality credit standing and with which it has a lending relationship.
Cash and short term deposits 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 28.2 37.7 Short term deposits 78.5 88.2 106.7 125.9 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months and earn interest at the respective short term deposit rates.
The Group classifies all its cash and short term deposits as loans and receivables.
The majority of the Groups surplus cash is deposited with major banks with rating of A Standard & Poors or A2 Moodys.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2011 is 106.7m 2010: 125.9m.
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 28.2 37.7 Short term deposits 78.5 88.2 106.7 125.9 Bank overdrafts Note 20 0.1 0.1 106.6 125.8 108 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 20.
Financial liabilities 2011 2010 m m Current Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 Forward currency contracts Note 21 0.2 0.1 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 Current instalments due on bank loans 52.9 0.2 53.2 75.4 Non-current Interest rate swaps Note 21 3.0 Forward currency contracts Note 21 22.2 23.2 Put options over non-controlling interests 13.4 8.5 Non-current instalments due on bank loans 87.8 65.8 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 262.4 254.0 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 229.9 215.4 615.7 569.9 The Group classifies all its derivative financial instruments and put options over non-controlling interests at fair value through profit and loss and its bank overdrafts, bank loans and bonds as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Put options over non-controlling interests Put option agreements that allow non-controlling interest shareholders to require the Group to purchase the non-controlling interest are treated as derivatives over equity instruments in accordance with IAS 39.
They are recorded at fair value based on discounted cash flows models as no observable market data is available.
The terms of the put options over non-controlling interests granted during 2011 in relation to Rotaforte and Catersource are detailed in Note 30.
Details of put options granted in 2010 in relation to Navalshore and Sienna Interlink are also provided in Note 30.
Bank loans 2011 2010 m m 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 52.9 45.5 325m variable rate multi-option facility 2012 20.3 300m variable rate multi-currency facility 2016 87.8 Other loans 0.2 140.7 66.0 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 In March 2009, UBM raised 53.1m through two floating rate reset loans.
The loans bear interest for the first three years at six month EURIBOR plus 1.80% currently 3.48%.
Under the terms, the lender has the option to put the loans back to the Group at par 53.1m in March 2012 and every three years until maturity in March 2024.
If the loans are not put then one of three events will occur: 1.
The interest rate on the loans are reset to 4.16%, respectively, plus the Groups 3 year credit spread until the next put date: 2.
The Group exercises its call option and pays the fair value of the instruments at date of exercise to the current holders: or 3.
There is no credit spread quote available and the Group pays the fair value of the swap at the next interest date.
Since the 2008 2009 credit crisis, long term swap rates have fallen below the reset interest rate of 4.16%.
This, combined with a material increase in market volatility, has increased the fair value of the loans and the associated call options as at 31 December 2011 to 64.0m 53.5m.
As it is likely that the Group will exercise its call options and repay the loans in March 2012, the future estimated cash flows have been re-assessed to include the cost of settling the option.
This results in an expense of 8.5m which has been recognised as an exceptional interest expense in the income statement.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 109 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial liabilities continued 325m variable rate multi-option facility 2012 The 325m multi-currency unsecured revolving facility repayable on 27 July 2012 was cancelled by the Group in May 2011 and replaced by the 300m variable rate multi-currency facility 2016, detailed below.
The facility interest rate was LIBOR plus 0.325%.
Drawings under the facility at 31 December 2010 were: 2010 2010 Currency of borrowing m m Canadian dollar 31.5 20.3 20.3 The undrawn portion of this facility at 31 December 2010 was 304.7m.
300m variable rate multi-currency facility 2016 On 11 May 2011, the Group arranged a five year 300m variable rate multi-currency facility to replace the cancelled 325m variable rate multi-currency facility detailed above.
The 300m facility currently bears interest of LIBOR plus 1.0% whilst the UBM plc rating is BBBBaa3.
The future interest rate is dependent on the credit rating of UBM plc: the rate will be revised to LIBOR plus 1.35% for a downgrade to BB Ba1: LIBOR plus 1.75% for downgrade to BB Ba2 or lower: LIBOR plus 0.85% for an upgrade to BBB Baa2: or LIBOR plus 0.75% or an upgrade to BBB Baa1 or higher.
The new facility will mature on 11 May 2016.
Drawings under the facility are as follows: 2011 2011 Currency of borrowing m m Canadian dollar 17.3 11.0 Euro 29.0 24.2 Sterling 40.0 40.0 Japanese yen 1,510.0 12.6 87.8 The undrawn portion of this facility is 212.2m.
Bonds 75m floating rate reset bonds On 26 September 2011, the Group redeemed the 75m floating rate reset bonds issued in September 2008.
As provided under their terms, the Group also paid the fair market value of the options associated with the bonds, totalling 19.1m.
This resulting loss has been included in exceptional financing expense Note 8.
The bonds incurred interest at six month LIBOR plus 0.68%.
250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 Issued at 99.384% of par, the bonds pay an annual interest coupon of 6.5% on 23 November until maturity in 2016.
The coupon of 6.5% would be increased by 1.25% in the event the Groups long term credit rating were to be reduced below investment grade by either Standard & Poors below BBBor Moodys below Baa3.
The Group entered into currency and interest rate swaps so that approximately 150m has been swapped into floating rate US Dollars, at a rate of US LIBOR plus 3.14% further details in Note 21.
The Group also entered into currency swaps so that approximately 100m has been swapped into fixed rate US Dollars, at a rate of 6.34% further details in Note 21.
$350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 On 3 November 2010, the Group issued $350m fixed rate dollar bonds at 98.295% of par.
The bonds pay a 5.75% coupon on a semi annual basis on 3 May and 3 November until maturity in 2020.
The coupon of 5.75% would be increased in the event the Groups long term credit rating were to be reduced below investment grade by either Standard & Poors below BBBor Moodys below Baa3.
The increase to the coupon would be 0.25% per ratings notch per agency.
The proceeds were primarily used to repay outstanding bank debt drawn to finance the acquisition of Canon Communications LLC.
The Group entered into interest rate swaps so that $150m of the bonds has been swapped into floating rate US Dollars, at a rate of US LIBOR plus 2.63% further details in Note 21.
110 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 21.
Financial instruments Fair values The table below compares the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments.
Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 2011 2011 2010 2010 m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 106.7 106.7 125.9 125.9 Interest rate swaps 23.3 23.3 6.8 6.8 Forward currency contracts 0.1 0.1 Available for sale investments 0.6 0.6 130.0 130.0 133.4 133.4 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Interest rate swaps 3.0 3.0 Forward currency contracts 22.4 22.4 23.3 23.3 Put options over non-controlling interests 13.4 13.4 8.5 8.5 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 84.0 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 52.9 53.5 45.5 49.2 325m variable rate multi-option facility 2012 20.3 20.3 300m variable rate multi-currency facility 2016 87.8 87.8 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 262.4 267.7 254.0 268.6 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 229.9 248.0 215.4 213.7 Other loans 0.2 0.2 Contingent and deferred consideration on acquisitions 43.0 43.0 41.0 41.0 711.9 735.9 686.3 711.9 The fair value of cash at bank and deposits approximates to their book value due to their short maturity.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts are calculated by the external counterparties to the contracts and verified using present value of future cash flows at discount rates implied by the forward curve.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
The fair values of put options over non-controlling interests including exercise price and contingent considerations on post 1 January 2010 acquisitions are based on discounted cash flows models as no observable market data is available.
The terms of instruments granted during 2011 and 2010 are detailed in Note 30.
The fair values of the 75m floating rate reset bonds and the 53.1m floating rate reset loans are calculated by external counterparties to the debt.
Market values have been used to calculate the fair value of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 and the $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020.
The fair values of contingent consideration on post 1 January 2010 acquisitions have been determined by reference to the projected financial performance in relation to the specific contingent consideration criteria for each acquisition Note 30.
For all other financial assets and liabilities the carrying amount has been used.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 111 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial instruments continued Fair value hierarchy The table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
The fair value measurement technique for each category of financial instrument is detailed in the fair values section above.
Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly e. g. prices or indirectly e. g. derived from prices.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m m m m m Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps hedged 23.3 23.3 6.8 6.8 Forward currency contracts not hedged 0.1 0.1 23.3 23.3 6.9 6.9 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps hedged 3.0 3.0 Forward currency contracts hedged 22.2 22.2 23.2 23.2 Forward currency contracts not hedged 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Put options over non-controlling interests 13.4 13.4 8.5 8.5 Contingent and deferred consideration 43.0 43.0 41.0 41.0 on acquisitions 78.8 22.4 56.4 75.8 26.3 49.5 During the reporting periods ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 measurements.
Reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurements: Contingent Contingent Put options and deferred Put options and deferred over nonconsideration over nonconsideration controlling on controlling on interests acquisitions interests acquisitions 2011 2011 2010 2010 m m m m At 1 January 8.5 41.0 25.1 Acquisitions Note 30 3.9 24.8 8.5 33.3 Consideration paid 20.8 14.9 Changes in estimates goodwill 0.1 2.0 Changes in estimates Note 7 1.8 1.9 1.0 Currency translation 0.8 0.2 0.5 At 31 December 13.4 43.0 8.5 41.0 112 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 21.
Financial instruments continued Hedges Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps At 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 the Group had no interest rate swap contracts held as cash flow hedges.
Cash flow hedges existing at 1 January 2010 had no material impact on other comprehensive income or profit and loss during 2010.
Forward currency contracts At 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 the Group had no forward currency hedging contracts held as cash flow hedges.
Net investment in foreign operations 2011 2010 m m Forward currency contracts derivative financial assets 0.1 Forward currency contracts derivative financial liabilities 22.2 23.3 22.2 23.2 The following borrowings, US dollar cross currency interest rate swaps and Japanese yen forward currency contracts are designated as hedges of the indicated net investments and are used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Portion Net Portion Net Currency designated investment Currency designated investment Borrowing contracts as a hedge hedged Borrowing contracts as a hedge hedged 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Canadian dollar 17.3 12.0 Canada Newswire n a Euro 29.0 20.0 UBM Medica n a Japanese yen 1,510.0 500.0 UBM Japan 1,940.0 700.0 UBM Japan US dollar 350.0 416.8 746.8 Global Trade, PR 350.0 416.8 735.0 Global Trade, PR Newswire, UBM Newswire, UBM Asia, UBM Canon Asia, UBM Canon and US Technology and US Technology Under two of the US dollar cross currency interest rate swap contracts totalling $166.7m, the Group will pay annual interest of 6.336% and receive annual interest of 6.5% on 100.0m until 23 November 2016.
Under the other two contracts totalling $250.1m, the Group will pay annual interest of US LIBOR plus 3.14% and receive GBP LIBOR plus 2.90% on 150m until 23 November 2016.
Upon maturity of the Japanese yen forward exchange contracts in January 2011, the Group received 15.4m and paid 1,940.0m.
Gains or losses on the retranslation of these borrowings and the changes in fair values of the forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps are included in other comprehensive income to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investment in these subsidiaries.
These hedges were assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2011 and 2010 with the ineffective portion of the hedging contracts transferred to financing expense other Note 8.
Fair value hedges 2011 2010 m m Interest rate swaps derivative financial assets 23.3 6.8 Interest rate swaps derivative financial liabilities 3.0 23.3 3.8 Interest rate swaps at 31 December 2011 and 2010 include floating rate swaps for 150m matched against 150m of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 and $150m matched against $150m of the $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020.
Under these swaps the Group receives 6.50% and 5.75% respectively to match the bond coupons and pays six month sterling LIBOR plus 2.90% and six month US LIBOR plus an average of 2.63% respectively.
The interest rate swaps are used to increase the Groups exposure to interest rates to maintain a balance of fixed and floating interest rate cost.
The hedges were assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2011 and 2010 with the ineffective portions of the hedging contracts included in financing expense other.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 113 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies An explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies and the Groups policies on capital management are set out in the discussion of Treasury policies on pages 35 to 39 in the Financial Review.
Interest rate risk The following tables set out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Groups financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk: 31 December 2011 Within Between Between Between Between Over 1 year 1 2 years 2 3 years 3 4 years 4 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m Fixed rate Forward exchange contracts 8.9 8.9 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 99.1 99.1 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 126.2 126.2 108.0 126.2 234.2 Floating rate Cash 106.7 106.7 Bank overdraft 0.1 0.1 Interest rate swaps 14.6 8.7 23.3 Forward exchange contracts 0.2 13.2 13.4 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 52.9 52.9 300m variable rate multi-currency facility 2016 87.8 87.8 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 163.3 163.3 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 103.7 103.7 53.5 249.7 95.0 291.2 Interest rate swap arrangements convert the instrument from fixed to floating rate detailed in Note 21 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at set intervals of less than one year.
The effect of the interest rate swaps is discussed below.
31 December 2010 Within Between Between Between Between Over 1 year 1 2 years 2 3 years 3 4 years 4 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m Fixed rate Forward exchange contracts 9.1 9.1 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 99.0 99.0 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 124.7 124.7 232.8 232.8 Floating rate Cash 125.9 125.9 Bank overdraft 0.1 0.1 Interest rate swaps 3.8 3.8 Forward exchange contracts 14.1 14.1 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 75.0 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 45.5 45.5 325m variable rate multi-option facility 2012 20.3 20.3 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 155.0 155.0 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 90.7 90.7 Other 0.2 0.2 50.6 65.8 256.0 271.2 114 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued The following table demonstrates the impact on the Groups profit before tax from possible changes in interest rates applicable to financial instruments denominated in the following currencies, with all other variables held constant.
Effect Gains losses Effect Gains losses Increase in on profit recorded in Increase in on profit recorded in basis points before tax equity basis points before tax equity 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m Canadian dollar 100 0.1 100 0.2 Chinese renminbi 100 0.3 100 0.2 Euro 100 0.2 100 0.4 Sterling 100 0.3 100 0.7 Japanese yen 100 0.1 100 US dollar 100 2.3 100 0.6 A decrease in equivalent basis points would result in the exact opposite effect on profit before tax.
In 2009 the Group entered into 150m of fair value interest rate swaps to increase the exposure to interest rates following the issuance of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds.
In 2010 the Group entered into $150m of fair value interest rate swaps to increase the exposure to interest rates following the issuance of the $350m fixed rate US dollar bonds.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group manages its credit risk in relation to its operating activities trade receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions and other financial instruments.
Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits The following financial instruments and cash deposits are exposed to credit risk: 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 28.2 37.7 Short term deposits 78.5 88.2 Interest rate swaps 23.3 6.8 Forward currency contracts 0.1 130.0 132.8 The majority of the Groups surplus cash is deposited with major banks of high quality credit standing.
The Group enters into derivative contracts only with major banks of high quality credit standing.
The maximum credit risk associated with the Groups financial instruments and cash deposits is equal to their carrying value as set out in Note 19.
Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit management.
Credit limits are established for all customers and are based inter alia on bank references and credit checks.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
The maximum credit risk associated with the Groups trade receivables is equal to their carrying value as set out in Note 18.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 115 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Foreign currency risk The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in the Canadian dollar, Euro, Japanese yen and US dollar exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities and forward currency contracts and the Groups equity due to changes in the fair value of forward currency hedges and net investment hedges.
Percentage Effect on Gains Percentage Effect on Gains fall in profit recorded fall in profit recorded currency before tax in equity currency before tax in equity 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m Canadian dollar 10% 0.4 0.8 10% 0.1 0.3 Euro 10% 1.1 1.7 10% 0.3 Japanese yen 10% 0.8 0.4 10% 1.1 0.5 US dollar 10% 1.1 48.2 10% 1.9 44.8 Liquidity risk The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities.
31 December 2011 On Due within Due between Due 5 years demand 1 year 1 and 5 years and beyond Total m m m m m Bank overdraft 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial liabilities 0.4 23.8 24.2 Put options over non-controlling interests 6.1 7.3 13.4 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 54.3 54.3 300m variable rate multi-currency facility 2016 2.6 94.0 96.6 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 16.3 315.0 331.3 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 13.0 51.9 277.6 342.5 Trade payables 39.4 39.4 Other payables 32.6 1.6 34.2 Contingent and deferred consideration 30.9 12.1 43.0 0.1 189.5 504.5 284.9 979.0 31 December 2010 On Due within Due between Due 5 years Total demand 1 year 1 and 5 years and beyond m m m m m Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial liabilities 2.0 3.4 30.3 31.7 Put options over non-controlling interests 1.4 7.1 8.5 75m floating rate reset bonds 76.5 76.5 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 1.4 46.3 47.7 325m variable rate multi-option facility 2012 0.5 20.4 20.9 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 16.3 65.0 266.3 347.6 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 12.8 51.4 287.8 352.0 Other 0.2 0.2 Trade payables 51.3 51.3 Other payables 35.0 1.6 36.6 Contingent and deferred consideration 21.6 19.4 41.0 0.1 213.6 208.9 591.5 1,014.1 The above tables include an estimate of interest on the Groups financial liabilities based on the forward interest rate curve and assume the liabilities are in place until their maturity dates.
116 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued The tables below show the movement in net debt: 1 January Non-cash Exchange 31 December 2011 items Cash flow movement 2011 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 125.9 19.7 0.5 106.7 Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 Net cash 125.8 19.7 0.5 106.6 Bank loans due in less than one year 0.2 54.0 0.2 1.1 52.9 Bonds due in less than one year 75.0 19.1 94.1 Bank loans due in more than one year 65.8 45.5 68.7 1.2 87.8 Bonds due in more than one year 469.4 20.0 2.9 492.3 Net debt 484.6 47.6 5.9 0.1 526.4 1 January Non-cash Exchange 31 December 2010 items Cash flow movement 2010 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 158.9 38.6 5.6 125.9 Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 Net cash 158.8 38.6 5.6 125.8 Bank loans due in less than one year 0.2 0.2 Bonds due in less than one year 75.0 75.0 Bank loans due in more than one year 64.2 4.4 2.8 65.8 Bonds due in more than one year 320.8 69.5 214.2 3.9 469.4 Net debt 226.4 5.5 257.2 4.5 484.6 23.
Trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m Current Trade payables 39.4 51.3 Other payables 32.6 35.0 Contingent and deferred consideration Note 30 30.9 21.6 Other taxes and social security 10.3 13.2 Accruals 83.3 88.2 Deferred income 211.3 169.1 407.8 378.4 Non-current Other payables 1.6 1.6 Contingent and deferred consideration Note 30 12.1 19.4 Deferred income 1.3 13.7 22.3 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 117 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Provisions 31 December 2011 Reorganisation Prior and period restructuring Properties disposals Total m m m m At 1 January 2011 2.6 28.0 4.5 35.1 Arising during the year 6.4 0.7 0.9 8.0 Acquisitions Note 30 0.1 0.1 Utilised in the year 4.1 8.4 1.7 14.2 Net present value accretion 0.7 0.7 Currency translation 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 At 31 December 2011 4.8 20.9 3.6 29.3 Current 4.8 7.2 3.0 15.0 Non-current 13.7 0.6 14.3 At 31 December 2011 4.8 20.9 3.6 29.3 31 December 2010 Reorganisation Prior Former and period financial restructuring Properties disposals services Total m m m m m At 1 January 2010 9.8 35.1 5.0 0.1 50.0 Arising during the year 4.6 1.2 5.8 Acquisitions Note 30 0.5 1.3 1.8 Utilised in the year 12.6 11.2 0.5 0.1 24.4 Net present value accretion 1.0 1.0 Currency translation 0.3 0.6 0.9 At 31 December 2010 2.6 28.0 4.5 35.1 Current 2.6 10.3 12.9 Non-current 17.7 4.5 22.2 At 31 December 2010 2.6 28.0 4.5 35.1 Provisions recognised by the Group are based on reliable estimates determined by management of the amounts payable based on available information.
The amounts recorded in the above tables are continually evaluated by management.
Liabilities for reorganisation and restructuring In 2011, the Group incurred an exceptional charge of 3.6m relating to the integration of UBM Canon Note 7.
The remaining provision arising during the year of 2.8m relates to other reorganisation and restructuring projects, reported within operating expenses.
W e expect the provision balance of 4.8m to be utilised within one year.
Liabilities on properties The Group has lease obligations in respect of the continuing costs of vacant property, the quantification of which depends upon the ability to exit the leases early or sublet the properties, and for dilapidations on certain leasehold properties which are dependent principally on actual reinstatement costs on expiry of the leases.
The provision in respect of these obligations at 31 December 2011 has been determined following external professional advice and will be utilised over the period of the leases in question, which range from one to five years.
The provision is discounted at an appropriate cost of capital.
The amounts discussed under liabilities for reorganisation and restructuring relating to vacant property have been included within liabilities on property.
Liabilities relating to disposals in prior periods The Group has made a number of disposals of businesses in prior years.
W arranty and other claims may be brought against the Group in relation to these disposed businesses generally over periods of up to seven years after the date of disposal.
The provision in respect of these items has been determined based upon the contract terms of each disposal and are reassessed on an annual basis over the period during which claims may be brought against the Group.
Liabilities arising from former financial services activities A subsidiary of the Group was formerly engaged in the selling of personal pensions prior to 1996.
As a result of the industry-wide review into pension misselling by the Personal Investment Authority, the Group was exposed to actual and potential future claims by investors in respect of policies found to have been missold.
The provision was fully utilised during 2010 and no further claims are expected.
118 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
The charge for the year in relation to defined contribution schemes was 5.7m 2010: 6.4m.
The defined benefit pension schemes included in the following disclosures are: i UK schemes: the United Pension Plan, the United Magazines Final Salary Scheme, the defined benefit section of the United Group Pension Scheme UGPS, the United Newspapers Executive Pension Scheme and the OAG Pension Scheme which was transferred to the UGPS on 8 September 2010 : ii US schemes: the CMP Media LLC Cash Balance Retirement Plan and the CMP Post Retirement Medical Plan: and iii Retirement Indemnity Plans in France.
The most recent actuarial funding valuations for the majority of the UK scheme liabilities were carried out in 2011 and updated to 31 December 2011 for accounting purposes by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets 437.5 25.9 463.4 440.8 26.0 466.8 Benefit obligation 458.7 30.3 489.0 441.7 32.9 474.6 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 5.9 5.9 4.9 4.9 Net deficit in the statement of financial position 27.1 4.4 31.5 5.8 6.9 12.7 Schemes in surplus 10.9 10.9 9.1 9.1 Schemes in deficit 38.0 4.4 42.4 14.9 6.9 21.8 Net deficit in the statement of financial position 27.1 4.4 31.5 5.8 6.9 12.7 Any surplus on the UK schemes ultimately repaid to the Company by the Trustees would currently be subject to a 35% tax charge prior to being repaid.
The application of IFRIC 14 is such that this tax is shown as irrecoverable surplus.
Two of the UK schemes are in surplus at 31 December 2011 2010: two UK schemes.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Current service cost 0.5 0.1 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.9 Past service cost Curtailment or settlement 1.8 1.8 0.5 1.7 1.2 0.6 0.3 0.9 Interest cost 24.1 1.4 25.5 23.9 1.7 25.6 Expected return on plan assets 26.7 1.9 28.6 27.1 1.7 28.8 2.6 0.5 3.1 3.2 3.2 Total pension credit 2.1 2.2 4.3 2.6 0.3 2.3 The sale of the French print business and associated retirement indemnity liabilities resulted in a 1.8m settlement credit in 2011, included in the calculation of profit on disposal Note 31.
Of the total pension credit, a 1.2m credit and a 3.1m credit 2010: 0.9m charge and 3.2m credit were included in Operating expenses and Financing income respectively.
The total pension credit for 2012 is currently expected to be 1.8m.
The main UK schemes are closed to new members, hence under the projected unit credit method, the current service cost expressed as a percentage of the salaries of the remaining members will increase as the remaining active members of the scheme approach retirement.
In 2009, the Group agreed to make special contributions to the UK pension schemes over the next five years of 3.1m per annum plus a one-off contribution in 2009 of 1.3m.
This contribution schedule remains in place until the 2011 funding valuations are finalised expected in the first half of 2012.
The Group also agreed, as part of merger agreements for several of the pension schemes, to arrange letters of credit to be issued to the scheme trustees from one or more of the Companys bankers.
The value of the letters of credit issued to the scheme trustees in 2011 is 17.0m 2010: 17.0m.
The main conditions under which these letters of credit could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the interests of the scheme, such as insolvency, or the Group failing to make agreed payments.
The Group expects to contribute 3.1m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2012.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 119 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The movement in the asset and liability recognised in the statement of financial position is as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m At 1 January 5.8 6.9 12.7 18.0 8.6 26.6 Total income expenses recognised in the income statement 2.1 2.2 4.3 2.6 0.3 2.3 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 25.9 1.4 27.3 8.4 0.6 9.0 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 1.0 1.0 2.4 2.4 Contributions paid by the Group 3.5 1.8 5.3 3.6 1.5 5.1 Currency translation 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 27.1 4.4 31.5 5.8 6.9 12.7 The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining pension obligations for the Groups schemes are shown below: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes 2011 2011 2010 2010 % % % % Discount rate 4.70 4.00 5.60 5.10 Future salary increases 3.75 n a 3.75 2.00 Weighted average pension increases 2.73 n a 2.88 n a Retail price inflation 2.60 2.50 3.30 2.45 Consumer price inflation 1.85 n a 2.55 n a Expected return on scheme assets: Equities 7.50 9.50 7.70 9.50 Bonds 4.70 5.50 5.60 5.50 Gilts 3.00 n a 4.20 n a Property 7.50 n a 8.70 n a Diversified Growth Fund 7.50 n a n a n a Other 0.50 n a 0.50 3.00 In 2010, the UK Government announced its intention to adopt consumer price inflation CPI rather than retail price inflation RPI for statutory minimum pension revaluations indexation from 1 January 2011.
This change impacts the UK schemes where pension revaluation is linked to the statutory minimum.
The reduction in liability at 31 December 2010 from the first application of the CPI assumption was 8.0m and is included in the actuarial gains, reported in other comprehensive income.
The mortality assumptions used at 31 December 2011 for UK schemes have been updated.
The life expectancy rates used are 110% of the SAPS S1 tables 2010: 130% of the 2000 series standard tables based on the year of birth of scheme members, which is currently on average 1941 for pensioners 2010: 1939 and 1956 for non-pensioners 2010: 1956.
Allowances for future improvements in mortality rates are in line with the CMI 2010 projections with a 0.75% p. a. long term trend rate 2010: medium cohort with a 1% underpin.
These projections allow for life expectancy to improve over time due to improvements in medical treatments and other lifestyle factors such that younger members who have not yet reached pensionable age are expected to live longer than current pensioner members.
The assumed average life expectancy of current pensioner members at age 65 is 21.1 years for males and 23.3 years for females 2010: 20.2 years and 22.7 years respectively.
For current non-pensioner members who have not yet reached pensionable age, the assumed average life expectancy at age 65 is 22.1 years for males and 24.5 years for females 2010: 22.1 years and 24.5 years respectively.
The average rate of improvement underlying the standard tables is an increase of approximately 0.6 years life expectancy in every ten years.
For the valuation of US scheme liabilities, RP 2000 tables are used in both years for all members.
The assumed average life expectancy of current pensioner members at age 65 is 19.0 years for males and 20.9 years for females 2010: 18.8 years and 20.8 years respectively.
For current non-pensioner members who have not yet reached pensionable age, the assumed average life expectancy at age 65 is 20.5 years for males and 22.4 years for females 2010: 18.8 years and 20.8 years respectively.
Additional assumptions used for valuing the UK scheme liabilities are an allowance for all non-pensioners to take 15% of pension as tax free cash upon retirement 2010: 15%.
Plan assets mainly consist of equity instruments and fixed income investments.
The expected rate of return on equities at 31 December 2011 is based on an expected long-term out-performance of equities over government bonds of 4.5% p. a.
120 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Management has used judgment to determine the assumptions used in calculating the pension obligations.
The assumed discount rate, salary increases and mortality all have a significant effect on the IAS 19 accounting valuation.
The following table shows the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in these assumptions.
Impact on Impact on deficit deficit 2011 2010 m m 0.25 percentage point decrease to discount rate 20.0 20.0 0.25 percentage point increase to inflation including pension increases linked to inflation 10.0 15.0 Additional one year increase to life expectancy 20.0 20.0 The reconciliation of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 441.7 32.9 474.6 431.1 32.2 463.3 Service cost 0.5 0.1 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.9 Interest cost 24.1 1.4 25.5 23.9 1.7 25.6 Employee contributions 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 Settlement 2.3 2.3 Benefit payments 23.4 1.8 25.2 22.2 3.2 25.4 Actuarial loss gain on liabilities 15.6 0.5 15.1 8.0 1.0 9.0 Exchange rate loss 0.5 0.5 0.9 0.9 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 458.7 30.3 489.0 441.7 32.9 474.6 The reconciliation of the plan assets is as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Assets at 1 January 440.8 26.0 466.8 415.6 23.6 439.2 Employer contributions 3.5 1.8 5.3 3.6 1.5 5.1 Employee contributions 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 Settlement 0.5 0.5 Benefit payments 23.4 1.8 25.2 22.2 3.2 25.4 Actual return on assets 16.4 16.4 43.5 3.3 46.8 Exchange rate gain 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.8 Assets at 31 December 437.5 25.9 463.4 440.8 26.0 466.8 The assets held in the schemes are as follows, split by asset category: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 % % % % % % Equity 36.0 61.0 39.0 52.0 44.0 52.0 Bonds 7.0 33.0 8.0 7.0 32.0 8.0 Gilts 36.0 34.0 30.0 17.0 29.0 Property 9.0 8.0 9.0 8.0 Diversified growth funds 10.0 9.0 Cash 6.0 7.0 1.0 Annuity contracts 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 The plan assets do not include any shares in UBM plc or any property occupied by the Group.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 121 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 25.2 1.6 26.8 1.2 0.5 1.7 Actuarial losses on plan liabilities due to assumptions 40.8 1.1 41.9 6.8 0.5 7.3 Experience losses gains on plan assets 10.3 1.9 12.2 16.4 1.6 18.0 Effect of irrecoverable element of pension surplus 1.0 1.0 2.4 2.4 Total loss gain 26.9 1.4 28.3 6.0 0.6 6.6 The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is 0.6m 2010: cumulative gains 27.7m.
UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 % % % % % % Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 5.5 5.3 5.5 0.3 1.5 0.4 Experience losses gains on plan assets 2.4 7.3 2.6 3.7 6.2 3.9 History of experience gains and losses: UK UK UK UK UK Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Defined benefit obligation 458.7 441.7 431.1 335.6 415.6 Plan assets 437.5 440.8 415.6 382.1 455.9 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 5.9 4.9 2.5 16.3 14.1 Deficit surplus in statement of financial position 27.1 5.8 18.0 30.2 26.2 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 25.2 1.2 3.3 11.5 4.2 Experience losses gains on plan assets 10.3 16.4 25.0 83.5 1.5 Other Other Other Other Other Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Defined benefit obligation 30.3 32.9 32.2 38.8 29.0 Plan assets 25.9 26.0 23.6 23.2 24.9 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus Deficit in statement of financial position 4.4 6.9 8.6 15.6 4.1 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 1.6 0.5 0.3 0.5 0.7 Experience losses gains on plan assets 1.9 1.6 4.0 10.1 0.4 Experience gains on plan assets: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Expected return on assets 26.7 1.9 28.6 27.1 1.7 28.8 Actual return on assets 16.4 16.4 43.5 3.3 46.8 Experience losses gains on plan assets 10.3 1.9 12.2 16.4 1.6 18.0 122 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 26.
Share capital 2011 2010 m m Authorised 1,217,124,740 2010: 1,217,124,740 ordinary shares of 10 pence each 121.7 121.7 Ordinary Ordinary shares shares number m Issued and fully paid At 1 January 2010 244,174,488 24.4 Issued in respect of share option schemes and other entitlements 379,118 At 31 December 2010 244,553,606 24.4 Issued in respect of share option schemes and other entitlements 225,429 0.1 At 31 December 2011 244,779,035 24.5 Company share schemes The ESOP Trust and QUEST Trust Note 28 own 0.43% 2010: 0.55% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of employees of the Group and their dependents.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees.
Share premium 2011 2010 m m In issue at 1 January 3.1 1.2 Premium on shares issued, net of costs 1.0 1.9 In issue at 31 December 4.1 3.1 The Company received 1.0m 2010: 1.9m on the issue of shares in respect of the exercise of options awarded under various share option plans.
Share-based payments The Group has an Employee Share Ownership Plan the ESOP.
The ESOP has purchased company shares in the open market which are held on trust for employees participating in the plans listed below.
The purchase of shares in the open market is financed through contributions in cash by the Company and, for awards under the Bonus Investment Plan, through bonuses sacrificed by senior executives.
The Group also has a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust the QUEST, which is a discretionary trust for the benefit of UK employees including executive directors of the Group in connection with the exercise of SAYE options.
As at 31 December the holdings over the ESOP and the QUEST were as follows: Number of Market value Number of Market value shares 2011 shares 2010 2011 m 2010 m ESOP Ordinary shares 1,056,056 5.0 1,352,273 9.3 QUEST Ordinary shares The Group maintains eight share-based payment arrangements: 2000 and 2008 Executive Share Option Schemes, Executive Retention Plan, 2000 Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan, UK Save As You Earn Option Scheme, International Save As You Earn Scheme, Medium T erm Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan and Bonus Investment Plan.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 123 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Share-based payments continued Executive share option scheme On 18 April 2000 the Group established a share option program for full-time directors and certain employees.
Grants are no longer made under the 2000 Executive scheme.
On 2 June 2008 the Group adopted the 2008 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2008 Executive scheme for full-time directors and certain employees.
All participants in the 2008 Executive scheme must be employed by UBM plc or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
Options were granted for the first time under the 2008 Executive scheme in 2009: the number of options granted to a participant under the 2008 Executive scheme is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Options under both schemes may be exercised after the third anniversary of the grant date subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
Options must normally be exercised before the expiry of ten years from the date of the grant.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death or ceasing to be employed due to retirement, injury, disability or redundancy.
The number of shares that may be allocated under the 2008 Executive scheme on any day cannot exceed: 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately before that day, when added to the aggregate of the number of shares allocated in the previous ten years under the 2008 Executive scheme and any other discretionary share plan adopted by the Company: and 10% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately before that day, when added to the aggregate of the number of shares allocated in the previous ten years under the 2008 Executive scheme and all other share plans adopted by the Company.
The exercise price to be paid by a participant when exercising options granted will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The price shall not be lower than the closing middle market price of shares of that class as listed on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the day prior to the grant date or the average closing middle market price of shares of that class on the three days prior to the grant date if so decided by the Remuneration Committee.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: Weighted Weighted average Weighted average Weighted exercise average exercise average price remaining life Number of price remaining life Number 2011 2011 shares 2010 2010 of shares Exercise price p p years 2011 p years 2010 247.3 277.2 262.2 1.0 251,045 262.1 2.0 253,045 410.0 665.5 506.8 7.5 9,085,363 485.2 7.5 8,170,741 724.8 867.2 734.0 4.3 160,000 727.6 1.9 585,000 Executive Retention Plan In 2005 the Group established the Executive Retention Plan ERP, for certain directors and employees.
All participants in the ERP must be employed by UBM plc or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the awards.
The value of awards granted to a participant under the ERP is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards are made in special circumstances to individuals as a recruitment or retention tool.
The awards are made in the form of options exercisable on payment of a nominal value of 1, or conditional share awards for employees in the US.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death.
Awards will generally vest after three years subject to continued employment and are generally not subject to any other performance conditions.
Where awards are granted as a monetary value rather than as a number of shares, the number of ordinary shares over which a monetary award is made is calculated by dividing the monetary value of the award by the price of UBM plc ordinary shares at the time of grant.
2000 Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan In April 2000 the Group established the Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan SEEPP for certain directors and employees.
Shares are purchased on the open market and financed through bonuses sacrificed by senior executives the Bonus Option under the terms of SEEPP.
The SEEPP has now been closed and no further grants will be made under the scheme.
Matching options may be exercised after the fourth anniversary of the grant date subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
One-third of Matching options vest subject to adjusted earnings per share EPS see Note 10 growth exceeding retail price index RPI growth plus 3%: one-third of options vest subject to adjusted EPS growth exceeding RPI growth plus 5% per annum over four years: the final third is not subject to performance criteria.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year were nil 2010: 0.1m.
124 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 28.
Share-based payments continued Save As You Earn Option Schemes In May 2004, the Group established the 2004 Sharesave Scheme 2004 SAYE for directors and employees.
Grants are no longer made under the 2004 SAYE.
In June 2008 the Company adopted the 2008 Sharesave Scheme 2008 SAYE for directors and employees.
Under the 2008 SAYE scheme participants must be employed by UBM plc or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
Options were granted for the first time under the 2008 SAYE in 2009.
The number of shares that may be allocated under the 2008 SAYE scheme on any day cannot, when added to the aggregate of the number of shares allocated in the previous ten years under the 2008 SAYE scheme and any other share plan adopted by the Company, exceed 10% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately before that day.
Options under both schemes may be exercised after either the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the grant date in accordance with each employees Savings Contract.
Options must normally be exercised within six months of the date the options are exercisable or within 12 months in the case of death.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death, or ceasing to be employed due to retirement, injury, disability or redundancy.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: Weighted Weighted average Weighted average Weighted exercise average exercise average price remaining life Number price remaining life Number 2011 2011 of shares 2010 2010 of shares Exercise price p p years 2011 p years 2010 367.0 497.2 401.6 1.9 1,531,693 386.2 2.3 1,548,923 640.1 640.1 0.9 8,846 640.1 1.0 37,372 Medium Term Incentive Plan Only market-purchased shares may be used for awards under the Medium T erm Incentive Plan MTIP.
The value of the MTIP award is based on a percentage of salary as determined by the Remuneration Committee each year, following assessment of the employee Company performance over the prior financial year the performance year.
Grants are no longer made under the MTIP.
Options may be exercised in two stages: 50% of options may be exercised in January of the second financial year after the year in which they were granted: the remaining 50% may be exercised in January of the third financial year after the options were granted.
Options may only be granted subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
Options must normally be exercised before the expiry of seven years from the date of the grant.
The exercise price of the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2011 is nil 2010: nil, and the weighted average life of the share options is two years 2010: four years.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year expiring on 3 April 2013, 4 April 2014 and 20 March 2015 were under 0.1m 2010: under 0.1m, under 0.1m 2010: under 0.1m and under 0.1m 2010: under 0.1m respectively.
Performance Share Plan In 2005 the Group established an incentive plan for full-time directors and senior executives.
All participants in the Performance Share Plan PSP must be employed by UBM plc or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the awards.
The value of awards granted to a participant under the PSP is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, but may not exceed 1.5 times base salary, save that in exceptional circumstances awards of up to 2 times base salary may be made.
Grants were made during the year under the PSP to full-time directors and senior executives, which requires UBMs total shareholder return TSR to outperform a comparator group of companies over a three year period.
25% of the award will vest if TSR is at median position subject to a maximum value of 25% of base salary and 100% if TSR exceeds the median by 10% per annum.
In between these positions, the award will vest on a straight line basis.
Options must be exercised before the expiry of ten years from the date of the grant.
The number of ordinary shares over which an award is made is calculated by dividing the monetary value of the award by the price of UBM plc ordinary shares at the time of grant.
The number of ordinary shares over which awards may be granted under the Performance Plan may not result in more than 10% of the ordinary share capital being issued or issuable under the Companys incentive plans in any ten-year period.
It is expected that market purchased shares will generally be used to satisfy awards under the PSP.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 125 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Share-based payments continued Bonus Investment Plan In 2005 the Group established the Bonus Investment Plan BIP, which replaced the SEEPP.
This enables participants to defer part of their annual bonus into UBM plc ordinary shares and provides the opportunity to earn further shares.
25% of any annual bonus award will be automatically be deferred into shares to be held for three years, and the participant may also elect to defer up to a further 25% into shares for the same period.
For BIP awards made in 2011 and prior to 2010, at the end of three years if the employee remains in service with the Company then the participant could receive a matching award of up to two additional shares for every share held if the Companys adjusted earnings per share have grown by more than an average of at least 10% 8% for awards prior to 2010 per annum above UK retail price index growth over the three year period.
A lower ratio of matching shares may be earned if earnings per share have grown by between 5% and 10% 3% and 8% for awards made prior to 2010 per annum above UK retail price index growth.
BIP awards made in 2010 require UBMs total shareholder return TSR to outperform a comparator group of companies over a three-year period.
In between these positions, the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
The number of ordinary shares which may be placed under option under the BIP depends on the monetary value of the bonus awarded to an employee during the year.
The amount of bonus depends upon employee Company performance over the prior financial year the year of performance measurement.
For the element which is mandatorily paid in shares, the number is calculated by dividing 25% of the monetary value of the bonus by the average December share price in the year preceding the year of performance measurement.
For any further element which the employee elects to defer into shares, the number is calculated by dividing the relevant monetary value by the share price at the time of the award.
Awards are made in the form of options which are exercisable on payment of a nominal 1, or conditional awards for employees in the US.
Options, once vested, must normally be exercised before the expiry of ten years from the date of grant.
The number of ordinary shares over which awards may be granted under the BIP may not result in more than 10% of the ordinary share capital being issued or issuable under the Companys incentive plans in any ten-year period.
It is expected that market purchased shares will generally be used to satisfy awards under the BIP.
Option movements A reconciliation of option movements over the year for all plans is as follows: 2011 2011 2011 2011 ESOS ERP 2000 SEEPP SAYE Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price of options price of options price m p m p m p m p At 1 January 2011 9.0 494.7 0.2 0.1 1.6 392.2 Granted 2.9 568.2 0.2 0.4 468.5 Forfeited Exercised 0.1 554.6 0.1 0.2 406.2 Expired 2.3 546.1 0.3 437.6 At 31 December 2011 9.5 504.1 0.4 1.5 563.3 Exercisable at 31 December 2011 1.8 521.7 126 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 28.
Share-based payments continued 2011 2011 2011 MTIP PSP BIP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number Number Number exercise exercise exercise of options price of options price of options price m p m p m p At 1 January 2011 0.1 1.2 1.1 Granted 0.4 0.5 Forfeited Exercised 0.1 Expired 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2011 0.1 1.5 1.3 Exercisable at 31 December 2011 0.1 0.3 0.2 There are periodic share option exercises throughout the year and the average UBM plc share price in 2011 was 551.2p 2010: 553.3p.
2010 2010 2010 2010 ESOS ERP 2000 SEEPP SAYE Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price of options price of options price m p m p m p m p At 1 January 2010 7.7 506.8 0.1 1.7 399.6 Granted 2.5 508.4 0.3 0.3 428.5 Forfeited Exercised 0.3 535.8 0.1 Expired 0.9 620.4 0.4 471.3 At 31 December 2010 9.0 494.7 0.2 0.1 1.6 392.2 Exercisable at 31 December 2010 2.5 558.7 0.1 2010 2010 2010 MTIP PSP BIP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price of options price m p m p m p At 1 January 2010 0.1 1.9 1.0 Granted 0.3 0.4 Forfeited Exercised 0.3 0.1 Expired 0.7 0.2 At 31 December 2010 0.1 1.2 1.1 Exercisable at 31 December 2010 0.1 0.6 0.2 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 127 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Share-based payments continued Valuation of share-based payments Options granted under the 2008 Executive Share Option Scheme and the SAYE plans were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing models.
Nil cost options and restricted shares excluding the PSP awards and the 2010 BIP match awards with TSR-based performance conditions were valued based on the share price at grant date less the value of any dividends foregone during the period to exercise.
The following table provides the weighted averages of the assumptions used to value options granted during the year ended 31 December: 2011 2010 Dividend yield 5.0% 5.0% Expected volatility 30.0% 30.0% Risk-free rate 1.7% 1.9% Forfeiture assumptions % per year : All plans excluding SAYE 5.0% 5.0% SAYE 10.0% 10.0% Weighted average share price at grant date: Options 583p 516p Nil cost options share awards without TSR condition 592p 544p Nil cost options share awards with TSR condition 588p 534p Weighted average fair value at grant date: Options 94p 82p Nil cost options share awards without TSR condition 478p 457p Nil cost options share awards with TSR condition 275p 309p Expected life Equal to vesting period Equal to vesting period The expected volatility is based on managements view of future expectations and consideration of the Groups historic average volatility.
A Monte Carlo simulation model was used for valuing PSP awards and 2010 BIP awards which have a performance condition based on the ranking of UBM plc TSR growth relative to a group of media-related comparator companies.
The additional assumptions made for this purpose are that the average correlation of TSR growth between companies is 28% 2010: 23% and the average of the individual volatility assumptions used for each comparator company is 45% 2010: 48%.
The total charge for the year relating to the employee share-based payment plans was 5.8m 2010: 3.5m.
Of this amount, 5.0m 2010: 3.2m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The remaining 0.8m 2010: 0.3m relates to that 25% of cash bonus earned which may be deferred for shares under the BIP at the option of the employee, which is treated as a cash-settled liability at 31 December 2011 until the actual deferral amount is known.
At 31 December 2011, the cash-settled liability was 0.7m 2010: 0.3m.
The total charge for the year includes an amount in relation to 0.5 million nil cost BIP options that are expected to be issued in 2012 based on services provided and performance over 2011.
The weighted average fair value for these awards is 558p and the awards are expensed over four years starting in January 2011.
The expense will be adjusted in 2012 where appropriate to allow for the actual number of awards granted and fair value at grant date.
In the 2010 total charge for the year, it was expected that 0.4 million nil cost BIP options were to be issued in 2011 with a weighted average fair value of 289p and the awards are expensed over four years starting in January 2010.
The Group has adopted the exemption in IFRS 2 Share-based payments to fair value options granted from 7 November 2002 onwards.
128 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 29.
Other reserves Foreign currency Total Merger translation ESOP Other other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2010 732.2 15.1 5.9 125.3 597.7 1 Total comprehensive losses for the year 8.1 8.1 Shares awarded by ESOP 3.4 3.4 Own shares purchased by the Company 6.3 6.3 Balance at 31 December 2010 732.2 7.0 8.8 125.3 608.7 2 Total comprehensive losses for the year 0.3 0.3 Shares awarded by ESOP 3.3 3.3 Balance at 31 December 2011 732.2 7.3 5.5 125.3 605.1 1 The amount included in the foreign currency translation reserve for 2010 represents the currency translation difference on foreign operations on Group subsidiaries of 6.1m excluding 0.5m relating to non-controlling interests, on net investment hedges of 14.6 m and on joint ventures and associates of 0.4m.
2 The amount included in the foreign currency translation reserve for 2011 represents the currency translation difference on foreign operations on Group subsidiaries of 0.9m excluding 0.4m relating to non-controlling interests, on net investment hedges of 0.7 m and on joint ventures and associates of 0.1m.
Merger reserve The merger reserve is used to record entries in relation to certain reorganisations that took place in previous accounting periods.
The majority of the balance on the reserve relates to the capital reorganisation that took place in 2008 which created a new holding company which is UK-listed, incorporated in Jersey and with its tax residence in the Republic of Ireland.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments of foreign operations.
ESOP reserve The ESOP reserve records ordinary shares held by the ESOP to satisfy future share awards.
The shares are recorded at cost.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, no shares were purchased by the ESOP 2010: 1,200,000 shares.
Other reserve This reserve includes the unrealised gains and losses reserve which records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 129 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Acquisitions The Group completed eight acquisitions during 2011 of which International Business Events Limited, owner of the Ecobuild exhibition business, Ecobuild was significant.
Details of all other acquisitions have been provided below by reportable segment.
The Group also acquired the remaining 25% of the voting rights of Building Services Publications Limited, detailed in the Equity transactions section below.
The following table sets out the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in respect of acquisitions excluding equity transactions made in 2011: Other All Ecobuild acquisitions acquisitions 2011 2011 2011 m m m Intangible assets 17.2 9.8 27.0 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 2.5 0.6 3.1 Cash and cash equivalents 5.1 5.1 Total assets 24.8 10.5 35.3 Trade and other payables 4.1 1.2 5.3 Current tax liability 1.1 1.1 Provisions 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax liability 4.3 2.7 7.0 Total liabilities 9.6 3.9 13.5 Identifiable net assets 15.2 6.6 21.8 Goodwill arising on acquisition 29.7 24.7 54.4 Net changes in estimates of pre 1 January 2010 contingent consideration 0.1 0.1 Non-controlling interests 4.7 4.7 44.9 26.7 71.6 Trade and other receivables acquired have been recognised at fair value which equates to the gross contractual amounts receivable.
All amounts recognised are expected to be collected.
The total consideration paid and payable after working capital adjustments on acquisitions excluding equity transactions is shown below: Other All Ecobuild acquisitions acquisitions 2011 2011 2011 m m m Cash 30.7 16.0 46.7 Fair value of contingent consideration 11.1 8.0 19.1 Deferred consideration 3.1 2.6 5.7 Contingent consideration adjustments on pre 1 January 2010 acquisitions 0.1 0.1 Total consideration transferred 44.9 26.7 71.6 The Group has acquired 100% of the voting rights in all cases where acquisitions involved the purchase of companies unless otherwise stated below.
All 2011 acquisitions where less than 100% of the voting rights of a company were purchased have been accounted for using the full goodwill method, as permitted by IFRS 3 revised 2008.
As none of these companies are listed, no market information is available.
Therefore, the fair value of the non-controlling interest for each acquisition has been estimated using a multiples approach with assumed adjustments for the lack of control that market participants would have by reference to the purchase price paid by the Group.
Acquisition costs of 2.9m have been expensed as exceptional items in the income statement Note 7 and are included in operating cash flows in the statement of cash flows.
0.5m of these costs relate to the acquisition of Ecobuild.
130 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 30.
Acquisitions continued Ecobuild On 19 July 2011, the Group acquired International Business Events Limited owner of the Ecobuild exhibition business for initial cash consideration of 31.2m and further performance-based consideration of up to a maximum of 20.0m payable over the following 12 months.
Contingent consideration of 11.1m was included in the acquisition accounting and calculation of goodwill, based on the projected financial performance at the time of acquisition.
This estimate has been subsequently revised to 12.7m, reflecting improved performance and projections for the March 2012 event.
The movement of 1.6m is reported within exceptional items relating to acquisitions within the income statement.
Ecobuild is the worlds largest exhibition dedicated to sustainable building products and is the fastest-growing trade event in the UK.
The acquisition is an excellent fit with UBM Built Environments existing UK media portfolio which includes industry-leading online and print publications such as Property Week and Building, as well as a range of events such as Interiors, Sleep, BSEC and RESI.
Ecobuild is also a strong complement to the Groups existing international construction portfolio which includes Expobuild in China, the Concrete Show in Brazil and India as well as Building Future Education in UAE.
These media platforms will support Ecobuild and the Groups global events infrastructure will support the expansion of Ecobuild to other countries, building on the events existing international audience.
The goodwill of 29.7m arising from the acquisition of Ecobuild relates to the following factors: the acquisition gives the Group a market leading position in the growing UK sustainable construction market: expected increases in customers and revenues resulting from increased market penetration: buyer specific cost and tax synergies: and acquired assembled workforce.
None of the goodwill recognised on acquisition of Ecobuild is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other acquisitions Events acquisitions The goodwill of 24.8m recognised for other acquisitions relates to certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated.
These include items such as customer loyalty, market share, skilled workforce and synergies expected to arise after the acquisition completion.
Of the goodwill arising, an amount of 1.0m is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
On 24 January 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of a 65% stake in Rotaforte International Trade Fairs & Media Rotaforte, the owner of Turkeys largest jewellery exhibitions, for initial cash consideration of $1.7m 1.1m and further performance-related consideration of up to $8.1m 5.1m payable over the next two years.
The acquisition of Rotaforte adds a further industry-leading exhibition to the Groups jewellery portfolio within the Events segment, and is in line with the Groups strategy to enhance and expand its international presence in geographic regions of significant growth.
There are put and call options over a further 15% of the equity priced at 5.5x EBITA capped at $4m 2.5m.
The Groups call option is exercisable after finalisation of the 2013 accounts, and the vendors put option between 2014 and 2021.
The vendor also has a second put option over the remaining 20% exercisable between 2014 and 2021 priced at 5.5x EBITA capped at $10m 6.3m.
The fair value of both put options including exercise prices at acquisition date was 1.9m.
The fair values have increased to 2.6m at 31 December 2011 following revised forecasts.
The put options are included in derivative financial instruments.
The value of the call option is not material to the Group.
On 27 January 2011, the Group acquired the trade and assets of SATTE, Indias largest travel and tourism exhibition, for initial cash consideration of INR182.0m 2.5m and further performance-related consideration of up to INR168.0m 2.3m payable over the next three years.
The SATTE event provides the Group with a leading position in the rapidly-growing Indian travel and tourism industry.
Included in the purchase consideration is the events supporting controlled circulation monthly publication, T3, which will be reported in the Groups Marketing Services Print division.
On 7 May 2011, the Group acquired the business and assets of AMB Exhibitions Sdn Bhd and AMB Events Sdn Bhd together AMB in Malaysia, Vietnam and the Philippines, for initial cash consideration of MYR26.8m 5.5m and a further performance-related consideration of up to MYR8.2m 1.7m payable over the next two years.
The acquisition of AMB accelerates the expansion of the Groups Events business into South East Asia.
On 17 June 2011, the Group acquired a 70% equity interest in UBM Catersource LLC, a limited liability company which owns the trade and assets of the Catersource catering conference and exhibition and its sister show Event Solutions, for initial consideration of $5.0m 3.1m.
The acquisition will strengthen the Groups portfolio of events serving the Food & Leisure industries both in the USA and internationally.
The Group has a call option over the remaining 30% interest exercisable for a three-month period after the 2013 events and for a three-month period after each subsequent event.
The vendor also has a put option over their 30% interest exercisable after 17 June 2013.
Both put and call options are priced at 6x EBITA capped at $7.2m 4.5m.
The fair value of the put option including exercise price at acquisition date and at 31 December 2011 was 2.0m.
The put option is included in derivative financial instruments.
On 13 October 2011, the Group acquired a 70% equity interest in Index Furniture Private Limited for initial cash consideration of INR81.5m 1.0m with further performance-related consideration of up to INR150.0m 1.9m payable over the next three years.
The company owns the three Index Fairs tradeshows held annually in Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.
The acquisition of a majority stake in the Index Fairs provides the Groups Events segment with a leading position in this growing market and provides a significant addition to the Groups product portfolio in India.
On 15 November 2011, the Group acquired the Online Marketing Summit OMS, an annual conference for online digital marketers, for initial cash consideration of $2.1m 1.3m and further performance-related consideration of up to $0.9m 0.6m based on 2012 results.
The conference will expand the ability of the Events segment to serve the digital marketing community both through professional conferences and the  business.
On 18 November 2011, the Group acquired the business and assets of Renewable Energy India REI, an annual exhibition focused on the Indian market for non-depleting and  renewable energy sources, for initial cash consideration of INR320.0m 3.9m with further performance-related consideration of up to INR80.0m 1.0m payable over the next year.
The event provides the Group with an established presence in a high growth sector.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 131 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Acquisitions continued Equity transactions On 20 October 2011, the Group acquired the remaining 25% of the voting rights of Building Services Publications Limited for a total cash consideration of 86,000, giving the Group 100% ownership.
As the Group already had control of the company on acquisition of the remaining 25%, the transaction is accounted for as an equity transaction in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements.
2011 m Cash paid 0.1 Carrying amount of non-controlling interest at acquisition date 0.1 Recognised in equity Other transactions On 1 March 2011, the Group also announced it has entered into a framework agreement to acquire 60% of the Famdent dental exhibition and conference.
As completion has not occurred at the balance sheet date, the Famdent acquisition has not been included in these consolidated financial statements.
The completion is subject to regulatory approvals, and will enable the Group to expand its offering in the Indian medical exhibition and conference market.
31 December 2010 acquisitions The Group completed 22 acquisitions during 2010 of which Canon Communications LLC Canon was particularly significant.
The following table sets out the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in respect of acquisitions made in 2010: Other All Canon acquisitions acquisitions 2010 2010 2010 m m m Intangible assets 67.8 24.2 92.0 Property, plant and equipment 1.3 0.8 2.1 Trade and other receivables 13.9 11.1 25.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1.8 3.4 5.2 Total assets 84.8 39.5 124.3 Trade and other payables 23.7 18.3 42.0 Provisions 1.8 1.8 Deferred tax liability 23.7 5.2 28.9 Total liabilities 49.2 23.5 72.7 Identifiable net assets 35.6 16.0 51.6 Goodwill arising on acquisition 150.4 71.0 221.4 Net changes in estimates of pre 1 January 2010 contingent consideration of 2.0m within other acquisitions 2.0 2.0 Non-controlling interests 9.5 9.5 186.0 75.5 261.5 Trade and other receivables acquired have been recognised at fair value which equates to the gross contractual amounts receivable.
132 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 30.
Acquisitions continued The total consideration paid and payable after working capital adjustments on acquisitions is shown below: Other All Canon acquisitions acquisitions 2010 2010 2010 m m m Consideration: Cash paid to acquire subsidiaries 186.0 43.9 229.9 Contingent consideration on acquisitions 32.0 32.0 Deferred consideration on acquisitions 1.3 1.3 Contingent consideration adjustments on pre 1 January 2010 acquisitions 2.0 2.0 Total consideration transferred 186.0 75.2 261.2 Fair value of previously held interests 0.3 0.3 186.0 75.5 261.5 The Group acquired 100% of the voting rights in all cases where acquisitions involved the purchase of companies unless otherwise stated below.
All acquisitions where less than 100% of the voting rights of a company were purchased have been accounted for using the full goodwill method, as permitted by IFRS 3 revised 2008.
Acquisition costs of 6.1m were expensed as exceptional items in the income statement Note 7 and were included in operating cash flows in the statement of cash flows.
3.3m of these costs related to the acquisition of Canon.
Canon Communications LLC On 21 October 2010, the Group acquired Canon, a leading provider of tradeshows and related media products serving the global advanced manufacturing sector, for cash consideration of $287.0m 183.2m.
The acquisition of Canon will complement three of the Groups reportable segments: Events: Canon brings event leadership to the Group in the attractive, growing medical device design and manufacturing market.
The companys US events expertise, databases and marketing services capabilities will augment and advance the Groups existing US tradeshows in markets such as packaging, ingredients and speciality chemicals.
It will also provide the Group with the opportunity to geo-clone events in fast growing economies such as China, India and Brazil.
Marketing Services Online: Canons Marketing Services Online product portfolio complements the Groups existing position in the electronic engineering market, broadening the Groups portfolio of information products and services for the electronic design and engineering community.
Marketing Services Print: Canons print product portfolio complements the Groups existing position in the electronic engineering market, broadening the Groups portfolio of information products and services for the electronic design and engineering community.
The goodwill of 150.4m arising from the acquisition of Canon relates to the following factors: the acquisition provides the Group with a market leading position in the growing medical devices events market and provides growth opportunities, particularly in emerging markets, through leveraging the Groups international tradeshow infrastructure and expertise on Canons existing business: management expects a high proportion of new customers: the revenue streams associated with new customers have been reflected in goodwill.
The value of existing Canon customers is included in the intangible asset detailed below: buyer specific tax shields reflecting net operating losses and unrecognised deferred tax assets which are expected to remain within the combined UBM and Canon business: and acquired skilled workforce.
None of the goodwill recognised on acquisition of Canon is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other acquisitions The goodwill of 69.0m recognised above for other acquisitions relates to certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated.
Of the goodwill arising, an amount of 2.3m is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Events acquisitions On 12 February 2010, the Group acquired 70% of Sign China, an international tradeshow serving the rapidly growing Chinese outdoor advertising sign industry, for initial cash consideration of $10.7m 7.1m with further performance-related consideration of up to $3.9m 2.6m payable over the next three years.
The acquisition of Sign China will add another industry leading event to the Groups portfolio, as well as provide a springboard for expansion into South China for the Events segment.
On 3 March 2010, the Group acquired E Commerce Expo Limited for initial cash consideration of 0.6m with further performance-related consideration of up to 1.2m payable after the October 2010 event.
E Commerce Expo is a two day exhibition with an associated conference and awards ceremony dedicated to e-commerce and online retailing.
The acquisition advances the presence of the Events segment in the e-commerce, internet retailing and digital marketing sectors, which are identified as offering sustainable long-term growth potential.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 133 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Acquisitions continued On 9 April 2010, the Group acquired DesignCon, an exhibition and conference serving the electronic design and semiconductor industry, for cash consideration of $1.4m 0.9m.
DesignCon will strengthen international presence of the Events segment in the electronic design and semiconductor industry.
On 21 May 2010, the Group made the following acquisitions: 60% interest in Navalshore, a Brazilian shipbuilding industry tradeshow and conference for cash consideration of R$2.9m 1.1m.
The acquisition of a majority stake in Navalshore within the Events segment gives the Group greater exposure to the Brazilian maritime industry, one of the fastest growing markets in the world.
The Group has two call options, both priced at 7x EBITA, over a further 30% of the equity: 20% exercisable after 31 December 2014 capped at R$6.0m 2.3m and 10% exercisable after 31 December 2018 capped at R$4.0m 1.5m.
The vendors also have a put option over their 40% interest exercisable after 31 December 2012 and priced at 7x EBITA capped at R$10.0m 3.8m.
The carrying value of the put option including exercise price at the acquisition date was 1.4m, reported within derivative financial instruments.
75% interest in Sienna Interlink, a Brazilian exhibition company based in Sao Paulo for initial cash consideration of R$19.8m 7.6m with further performance-related consideration of up to R$20.2m 7.7m payable over the next year.
In addition to contributing profitable revenue growth and expanding the Events segments presence in Brazil, the acquisition provides exposure to the fast-growing South American concrete market which is benefiting from significant construction activity taking place ahead of the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil and the 2016 Rio fide Janeiro Olympics.
The Group has a call option exercisable after 31 December 2014, priced at 7x EBITA.
The vendor also has a put option over their 25% interest exercisable after 31 December 2016 and priced at 7x EBITA.
The carrying value of the put option including exercise price at the acquisition date was 7.1m, reported within derivative financial instruments.
On 20 July 2010, the Group acquired the Shanghai International  Products Expo and related businesses for initial cash consideration of $9.7m 6.3m and further performance-related consideration of up to $6.4m 4.2m payable over the next two years.
The acquisition, mainly comprising an annual exhibition for the Chinese child and baby products market, will enable the Group to enter a dynamic new business sector within the Events segment by obtaining a profitable platform.
On 12 August 2010, the Group acquired The Route Development Group Limited for initial cash consideration of 8.0m and further performance-related consideration of up to 1.3m payable over the next two years.
The acquisition provides the Groups Events segment with a face to face networking event serving the Groups airline and airport customers, which is highly complementary to the Groups existing airline data and schedules business.
On 10 November 2010, the Group acquired the Publishing Expo business, a tradeshow serving the UK publishing industry, for cash consideration of 0.3m.
The acquisition adds a further industry leading event to the Group and the March 2011 edition will be co-located with the Groups existing T echnology For Marketing & Advertising and Online Advertising and Affiliate Expo events.
PR Newswire acquisitions On 26 April 2010 the following transactions took place: the Group acquired the remaining 62.03% equity interest in PR Newswire do Brasil for initial cash consideration of $1.0m 0.7m with further performance-related consideration of up to $0.2m 0.1m, payable over the next two years.
PR Newswire do Brasil was previously accounted for as an associate: no gain or loss has been recognised as a result of remeasuring the previous equity interest to fair value.
the Group purchased the remaining 10% equity interest in PR Newswire Argentina for cash consideration of $40,000 27,000.
The transaction has been accounted for as an equity transaction in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008 since control was held by the Group prior to the acquisition of the remaining 10% interest.
Transaction balances are not included in the above tables.
On 28 April 2010, a Group subsidiary, CNW Group Limited, acquired dna13 for initial cash consideration of CAD6.1m 4.0m and further performance-related consideration of up to CAD0.9m 0.6m.
dna13 owns unique software allowing public relations practitioners to manage, monitor and measure the success of their communications campaigns.
On 25 June 2010, the Group acquired Corporate360, a Hong Kong based corporate communications solution provider, for initial cash consideration of $0.4m 0.2m with further performance-based consideration of up to $1.0m 0.7m payable over the next three years.
The acquisition of Corporate360 will allow expansion of the PR Newswire segment in Asia, by expanding service delivery capability and by offering a more sophisticated and engaging set of communication tools.
On 18 October 2010, the Group acquired Hors Antenne, a leading provider of media targeting information to the European French-speaking markets, for initial cash consideration of 6.0m 5.3m and further performance-related consideration of up to 3.0m 2.7m payable over the next two years.
In addition to adding profitable revenue to the PR Newswire segments successful European targeting business, the acquisition will enhance and expand the range of targeting and monitoring services Hors Antenne is able to offer its customers.
Data Services acquisitions On 20 April 2010, the Group acquired SharedVue, a web-based marketing business, for initial cash consideration of $0.4m 0.2m, with further performance-related consideration of up to $30.0m 19.5m payable over the next three years.
The acquisition within the Data Services segment will enhance and expand presence in the fast growing web-based marketing space.
On 5 May 2010, the Group acquired selected assets of Cen TradeX Inc. a provider of market intelligence tools, for initial cash consideration of $0.5m 0.3m with further performance-related consideration of up to $0.1m 0.1m payable over the next two years.
The acquisition will enable the Data Services segment to enhance the user interface and analytical tools for its market leading PIERS Global Intelligence product portfolio.
On 10 September 2010, the Group acquired Shanghai Leadway E-Commerce Co. Limited, trading as UM Paper, for initial cash consideration $0.4m 0.3m and further performance-related consideration of up to $0.4m 0.3m payable over the next two years.
The information and analytical services business will assist the Group in fulfilling its ambition to become the leading provider for the paper and board industry in China.
134 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 30.
Acquisitions continued On 7 October 2010, the Group acquired certain software and intellectual property assets of Triton Works LLC Triton JOC Exchange for initial cash payment of $0.5m 0.3m and further performance-related consideration of up to $36.0m 23.0m, payable in each of the years 201115.
Triton is a launch business with an objective to create electronic market places for the trading of container slots on ships.
The Group intends to use the industry position, access to carrier industry companies and media assets within the Data Services segment to grow the Triton business.
On 1 November 2010, the Group acquired Lead-In Research Limited, a boutique sales lead business, for initial cash consideration of 1.2m and further performance-related consideration of up to 0.3m payable at the end of 2010.
The acquisition will enhance the current product offering of the Groups ABI business within the Data Services segment.
Marketing Services Online acquisitions On 23 February 2010, the Group acquired Game Advertising Online GAO, a banner advertising agency serving advertising publishers in the online video game industry, for initial cash consideration of $0.9m 0.6m, deferred consideration of $0.1m 0.1m and further performance-related consideration of up to $7.0m 4.4m payable over the next year.
GAO will diversify the games industry revenue stream within the Marketing Services Online segment and deepen business relationships with online game publishers.
On 31 August 2010, the Group acquired Astound LLC, a US virtual career fairs business, for initial cash consideration of $0.1m 0.1m and further performance-related consideration of up to $3.0m 1.9m payable over the next three years.
Astound LLC is a highly complimentary acquisition to the virtual events business, providing a new customer base and further exposure to an emerging market.
On 15 October 2010, the Group acquired OBGYN.
net, a womens health website for obstetrics and gynaecology professionals and consumers, for cash consideration of $0.8m 0.4m.
net has strong brand recognition as one of the leading sites focusing on womens health issues.
Within the Marketing Services Online segment, it will add to the Groups online resources for healthcare professionals.
Intangible assets The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisitions are detailed in the following table: Other Other Ecobuild businesses Total Canon businesses Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Brands 9.0 5.1 14.1 34.2 10.3 44.5 Software 3.6 3.6 Order backlog 1.4 1.4 2.8 3.0 0.1 3.1 Customer relationships 6.5 2.5 9.0 17.9 9.2 27.1 Customer contracts and relationships 7.9 3.9 11.8 20.9 9.3 30.2 Subscription lists 0.3 0.3 Databases 0.3 0.8 1.1 12.7 0.7 13.4 Total 17.2 9.8 27.0 67.8 24.2 92.0 Identification and measurement of intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations requires the use of judgements by management.
For significant acquisitions, management is assisted by the work of external advisors in identifying and calculating the valuation of any intangible assets.
Acquisition performance From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2011, Ecobuild contributed 0.5 m to operating profit and nil to revenue of the Group.
From their respective dates of acquisition to 31 December 2011, the other acquisitions completed in 2011 contributed 1.7m to operating profit and 7.9m to revenue of the Group.
If all acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of 2011, the acquisitions would have contributed 6.6m of operating profit and 23.3m to revenue of the Group.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010, Canon contributed 0.2 m to operating profit of the Group, 0.2 m to profit after tax of the Group and 8.1m to revenue of the Group.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010, the other acquisitions made in 2010 contributed 7.7m to operating profit of the Group and 23.4m to revenue of the Group.
If all acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of 2010, the acquisitions would have contributed 28.0m to operating profit and 100.2m to revenue of the Group.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 135 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Acquisitions continued Contingent and deferred consideration The potential undiscounted amount for all future payments that the Group could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangements for 2011 acquisitions are between nil and the maximum amounts disclosed by acquisition on the previous pages: 32.6m in aggregate maximum remaining at 31 December 2011 for 2010 acquisitions: 52.9m.
The contingent consideration for each acquisition made during the year is based on the terms set out in the relevant purchase agreements.
The amounts recognised in the consideration tables as the fair values of contingent considerations have been determined by reference to the projected financial performance in relation to the specific contingent consideration criteria for each acquisition.
The movement in the contingent and deferred consideration payable during the year was: Contingent Deferred Total Contingent Deferred Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 39.7 1.3 41.0 24.6 0.5 25.1 Acquisitions 19.1 5.7 24.8 32.0 1.3 33.3 Consideration paid 19.5 1.3 20.8 14.4 0.5 14.9 Changes in estimates goodwill 0.1 0.1 2.0 2.0 Changes in estimates income statement 1.9 1.9 1.0 1.0 Currency translation 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.5 Balance at 31 December 37.3 5.7 43.0 39.7 1.3 41.0 Cash flow effect of acquisitions The aggregate cash flow effect of acquisitions was as follows: 2011 2010 m m Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 5.1 5.2 Cash paid to acquire subsidiaries 46.7 229.9 Contingent consideration on 2006 acquisitions 0.9 Contingent consideration on 2007 acquisitions 3.4 5.1 Contingent consideration on 2008 acquisitions 3.1 1.9 Contingent consideration on 2009 acquisitions 0.7 1.0 Contingent consideration on 2010 acquisitions 12.2 5.5 Contingent consideration on 2011 acquisitions 0.1 Deferred consideration on 2008 acquisitions 0.5 Deferred consideration on 2010 acquisitions 1.3 Net cash outflow on acquisitions 62.4 239.6 The Group paid 19.5m of contingent consideration during 2011 in relation to the 2007 acquisitions of Vintage Filings LLC, Notilog and Portelligent Inc. the 2008 acquisitions of Aerostrategys aviation business and Sanguine Microelectronics, the 2009 acquisition of Virtual Press Office, and the 2010 acquisitions of Game Advertising Online, Sign China, SharedVue, Cen T radeX Inc. PR Newswire do Brazil, Sienna Interlink, Corporate360, the Shanghai International  Products Expo, Lead-In Research Limited, Astound LLC, Shanghai Leadway E-Commerce Co. Limited, Hors Antenne and the 2011 acquisition of SATTE.
The Group also paid 1.3m of deferred consideration during 2011 in relation to the 2010 acquisitions of Game Advertising Online, Sign China, Sienna, Navalshore, OBGYN and Publishing Expo.
The Group paid 14.4m of contingent consideration during 2010 in relation to the 2006 acquisition of MediReach Healthcare Communication, the 2007 acquisitions of Vintage Filings LLC, Semiconductor Insights Inc and Notilog, the 2008 acquisitions of Global Games Media and Exposure Events UK Limited, the 2009 acquisition of The Fuel T eam and the 2010 acquisitions of Sign China, E Commerce Expo Limited and Sienna Interlink.
The Group also paid 0.5m of deferred consideration during 2010 in relation to the 2008 acquisition of Sanguine Microelectronics.
Under the terms of the relevant sale and purchase agreements, additional consideration was payable if certain revenue and profit targets were met.
None of the contingent or deferred consideration balances are individually material.
136 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 31.
Disposals On 15 March 2011, the Group disposed of its UK licensed trade portfolio for initial cash consideration of 1.5m and further performance-related consideration of up to 0.2m, payable over the next year.
The portfolio comprises The Publican print magazine title, websites and awards event, together with the Theme and Bar Show brands.
A loss of 0.7m arose on disposal of the UK licensed trade portfolio, including directly attributable costs.
On 28 February 2011, the Group sold its French medical newspaper and magazine business, retaining a 34.55% equity share, for initial cash consideration of 4.2m 3.6m and extended vendor finance of 6.0m 5.1m to the management buy out team.
The business publishes weekly, bi-weekly, monthly and other subscription and controlled circulation titles for the French healthcare professional community and was part of the Groups Marketing Services Print segment.
The transaction further rationalises the Groups print portfolio and continues its progression towards a portfolio of integrated cross-media marketing services designed to serve specific commercial and professional communities.
A profit of 0.1m arose on the sale of this business.
The profit represents the disposal proceeds less the carrying amount of the businesses net assets, attributable goodwill and directly attributable costs, plus the fair value of the retained interest.
The Group accounts for the remaining interest as an associate, valued at 0.3m Note 15.
On 1 April 2011, the Group transferred Canon Communications Asia Pte.
Limited and Beijing Reed Advertising Services Co. Limited which together own EDN China, EDN Asia and certain associated titles to eMedia Asia Limited, the Groups joint venture with Global Sources Limited, for consideration of $4.0m 2.4m.
The Group acquired the EDN titles as part of its acquisition of Canon Communications LLC on 21 October 2010.
A profit of 0.7m arose on the sale, representing the portion of the gain which is attributable to the interest held by Global Sources Limited, including directly attributable costs.
On 27 April 2011, the Group received $0.4m 0.2m in relation to its investment in The Dolan Company which has been dissolved.
On 24 May 2011, the Group disposed of France Optique, a print online supplier directory for opticians in France, for total consideration of 0.6m 0.5m.
A profit of 0.1m was recognised on disposal, including directly attributable costs.
On 15 April 2011, the Group sold its print titles Consultant and Consultant For Paediatricians for total consideration of $2.3m 1.4m.
A profit of 0.4m was recognised on disposal, including directly attributable costs.
On 2 June 2011, the Group sold a portfolio of domain names for total consideration of $4.5m 2.8m.
Profit after directly attributable costs of 2.5m was recognised on disposal.
On 1 July 2011, the Group disposed of the online business of EDN Japan for total consideration of $0.3m 0.2m.
Including directly attributable costs, a loss of 0.1m was recognised on disposal.
On 29 July 2011, the Group disposed of its UK entertainment and technology product portfolio for total consideration of 2.4m.
The sale of the portfolio comprises Pro Sound News Europe, TVB Europe, Installation Europe and Music W eek print magazine titles and related websites and events.
A profit of 1.9m arose on disposal, including directly attributable costs.
On 30 December 2011, the Group completed the sale of the business and assets of Daltons Media and associated titles for initial cash consideration of 0.1m and further performance-related consideration of up to 0.6m.
A loss of 1.6m arose on disposal, including directly attributable costs.
The net profit on disposal of the above titles and businesses is 3.5m, reported within corporate operations.
The following table sets out the aggregate effect of the disposals on the Groups assets and liabilities: All disposals 2011 m Goodwill 11.6 Intangible assets 7.1 Property, plant and equipment 0.3 Trade and other receivables 14.0 Inventories 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents 2.9 Total assets 36.3 Trade and other payables 20.8 Deferred tax liability 2.2 Total liabilities 23.0 Identifiable net assets 13.3 Costs associated with disposal 4.2 Fair value of retained interest 0.3 Gain on disposal 3.5 Consideration received 20.7 Less cash disposed and deferred consideration 8.6 Net cash inflow 12.1 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 137 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Commitments Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial property and machinery leases under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future minimum lease payments payable under non-cancellable property operating leases are as follows: Land & Land & buildings Other buildings Other 2011 2011 2010 2010 m m m m Within one year 25.0 3.7 29.8 5.1 Later than one year and not later than five years 50.5 9.2 61.0 14.1 Later than five years 15.4 3.2 90.9 12.9 94.0 19.2 Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has entered into commercial property leases under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have remaining terms of between one and 11 years, with varying escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 7.0 6.1 Later than one year and not later than five years 11.4 14.7 Later than five years 0.9 18.4 21.7 Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounts to 1.6m 2010: 2.7m.
138 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 33.
Principal subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of UBM plc and the principal subsidiaries listed on the table below.
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiaries would lead to a statement of excessive length.
The following information relates to those subsidiaries results or financial position of which, in the opinion of the directors, principally contribute to the Group.
Country of incorporation Percentage equity interest at and operation 31 December 2011 Canon Communications LLC USA 100 CNW Group Limited Canada 50 International Business Events Limited Great Britain 100 Maypond Holdings Limited Republic of Ireland 100 PR Newswire Association, LLC.
USA 100 PR Newswire Europe Limited Great Britain 100 RISI, Inc USA 79 Socit dEditions Scientifiques et Culturelles SA France 100 UBM Asia Limited Hong Kong 100 UBM Aviation Group Limited Great Britain 100 UBM Global Trade, Inc USA 100 UBM Information Limited Great Britain 100 UBM Medica Asia Pte Limited Singapore 100 UBMi B. V. Netherlands 100 1 UBMG Holdings Great Britain 100 2 UBM Finance Sarl Luxembourg 100 United Business Media Finance, Inc. USA 100 3 UBMG Limited Great Britain 100 4 UBM, LLC USA 100 United Finance Limited Great Britain 100 Vidal S. A. France 100 Wenport Limited Republic of Ireland 100 1 Formerly United Business Media 2 Formerly United Business Media Finance Sarl 3 Formerly United Business Media Group Limited 4 Formerly United Business Media, LLC All companies stated as being incorporated in Great Britain are registered in England and W ales.
None of the above subsidiaries are held directly by UBM plc, with the exception of Maypond Holdings Limited.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 139 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Related party transactions The Group entered into the following transactions with related parties during the year: Balances Balances owed by owed by due to the due to the Group at Value of Group at Value of 31 December transactions 31 December transactions Nature of Nature of 2011 2011 2010 2010 Transactions with related parties relationship transactions m m m m 1 CMP Weka Verlag GmbH Joint Venture Licensing revenue 0.2 GML Exhibitions Thailand Co Limited Joint Venture Advances 0.3 Guangzhou Beauty Fair Joint Venture Commission and 0.1 0.1 0.1 management fees PA Group Limited Associate Newswire service 0.6 Shanghai Tekview IC Analysis Technology Co Limited Investment IT services 0.1 Transactions and balances owed by due to the Group less than 0.1m.
1 The CMP Weka Verlag GmbH joint venture was sold on 29 November 2010.
The related party transactions between the Group and CMP Weka Verlag GmbH disclosed above represent transactions until this date.
The disposal of the EDN China, EDN Asia and certain associated titles to the Groups joint venture, eMedia Asia Limited is also a related party transaction Note 31.
John Botts, Chairman of the Group was a director of Convera Inc. an IT consultancy specialising in search technologies, until 8 February 2010.
Convera Inc. is party to a five-year contract with the Group under which it is entitled to receive a share of revenues from certain related products.
Payments under this contract in the prior year until 8 February 2010 were nil.
The Group also provided services to Convera Inc. during this period for fees of 1,680.
The Group has provided services to Euromoney Institutional Investor plc, an international publishing, events and electronic information group, during the year for fees of 3,975 2010: 3,916.
John Botts is a director of Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
Allen & Company, a US investment bank, provided services to the Group during the year for fees of nil 2010: 2.0m.
John Botts is a senior advisor of Allen & Company.
Leaders Quest, a non-profit organisation, organised various management conferences for the Group in the prior year for fees of 15,000.
There were no transactions during the year ended 31 December 2011.
Lindsay Levin, wife of David Levin, Chief Executive Officer of the Group, is a partner of Leaders Quest.
During 2011, the Group provided advertising services and event sponsorship to Microland, an IT infrastructure management outsourcing services provider, for 4,649 2010: 3,226.
In the prior year, Microland also provided services to the Group for fees of 64,170.
Pradeep Kar, a non-executive director of the Group, is founder, chairman and managing director of Microland.
Computacenter plc, a provider of IT infrastructure services, provided services to the Group during the year for fees of 22,000 2010: 146,000.
Greg Lock, a non-executive director of the Group, is the chairman of Computacenter plc.
During the year, the Group provided services to Kofax plc, a business solutions provider, for fees of 12,000 2010: nil.
Greg Lock is the non-executive chairman of the Board and chairman of the Nomination committee of Kofax plc.
During the prior year, the Group provided services to Target Group, a provider of software and servicing solutions, for fees of 16,568.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had a trade receivable with Target Group of 8,687.
Greg Lock is a non-executive director of Target Group.
The Swets group of companies, information service providers, provided services to the Group during the year for fees of 13,719 2010: nil.
Also during the year, the Group provided services to Swets for fees of 11,930 2010: nil.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had a trade receivable with Swets of 9,420 2010: nil.
Jonathan Newcomb, a non-executive director of the Group, is chairman of the Swets Board.
Transactions with related parties are made at arms length.
Outstanding balances at year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
There are no bad debt provisions for related party balances as at 31 December 2011, and no debts due from related parties have been written off during the year.
Unless otherwise stated above there are no amounts owed by or due to related parties by the Group as at 31 December 2011 and 2010.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel are the Groups Executive directors and the following is the aggregate compensation of these directors: 2011 2010 m m Short term employee benefits 2.8 2.6 Post employment benefits 0.1 Share-based payments 2.1 1.3 4.9 4.0 140 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 35.
Events after the reporting period On 9 January 2012, the Group and Roularta Media Group each contributed their Belgian medical print activities to their joint venture, ActuaMedica.
ActuaMedica will be the market-leading provider of media-based marketing services for Belgian healthcare professionals.
By merging the media assets, both groups are able to offer their clients unparalleled access and reach to healthcare professionals.
On 1 February 2012, the Group acquired the annual 4G World telecoms and wireless trade show and conference for consideration of $4.0m 2.6m.
4G World is the largest independent telecoms and wireless event serving the US market.
The acquisition will expand the Groups offering in the rapidly-accelerating mobile broadband market, bringing a valuable brand to the Groups portfolio and tapping into online communities serving global communications providers, enterprise technology executives, developers and the 4G marketers tasked with reaching them.
On 6 February 2012, the Group announced the disposal of its UK agriculture and medical general practitioner portfolios including the Farmers Guardian and Pulse titles for total cash consideration of 10.0m subject to working capital adjustment at completion.
Subject to completion of two separate consultation processes under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations, the transaction is expected to close within the next month.
On 14 February 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of a 75% interest in Insight Media Limited which owns the Airport Cities World Exhibition & Conference ACE for cash consideration of 1.7m.
T ogether with its existing 25% stake in the company, the Group now owns 100% of the business.
ACE is a logical fit with the Groups growing aviation events business and supports the strategy to establish a leadership position within the airport infrastructure development sector.
On 20 February 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of the Malaysian International Furniture Fair for cash consideration of MYR47.0m 9.9m.
Following the acquisition the Group will be one of the largest organisers of international furniture trade shows in Asia.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 141
