Financial statements STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Annual accounts Directors responsibility statement The Directors are required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the CivilCode in Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 to knowledge: prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair The financial statements which have been prepared in view of the state of affairs ofthe Unilever Group, and the NV and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards PLC entities, as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International loss and cash flows for that year.
Accounting Standards Board in the case of the consolidated financial statements and United Kingdom accounting The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, theGroup standards in the case of the PLC parent company accounts and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate and United Kingdom accounting standards and Part 9 ofBook accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in the case of the NV parent company reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and thatall accounts, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU financial position and profit or loss of the Group and theNV and andas issued by the International Accounting Standards Board PLC entities taken as a whole: and inthecase of the consolidated financial statements, United The Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the Kingdom accounting standards in the case of the parent company development and performance of the business and the position accounts and Dutch law in the case of the NV parent company ofthe Group and the NV and the PLC entities taken as a whole, accounts which they consider to be applicable have been together with a description of the principal risks and followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC The Directors and their roles are listed on pages 34 and 40. keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure Going concern that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to affect have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are its future development, performance, the financial position of the reasonably open tothem to safeguard the assets of the Group, Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities and to prevent and detectfraud and other irregularities.
are described inAbout Unilever and the Financial review 2011 on pages 1 to 27.
In addition, we describe in note 16 on pages 93 to 99: This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its Auditors reports, ismade with a view to distinguishing for capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to andoftheauditors in relation to the accounts.
A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is The Group has considerable financial resources together with placedonour website at www.
The established business relationships with many customers and maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility of suppliers in countries throughout the world.
As a consequence, the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors business risks successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in governing the preparation and dissemination of financial operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report andAccounts.
UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of PLC regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
Disclosure in Internal and disclosure controls and procedures respect of these responsibilities is made on page 122.
Please refer to pages 28 to 32 for a discussion of Unilevers principal risk factors and to page 33 for commentary on the Groups approach to risk management and control.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 61
