Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 37 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance statement Statement of compliance with the code of best practice The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance provided by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year and to the date of this report except for the following: A.
7.2 One Non-Executive Director David Mann who served until his retirement at the last Annual General Meeting July 2010 did not have a contract of employment for a specific term due to his appointment being prior to the issue of the 2003 Combined Code.
Following David Manns retirement, the Company has been in compliance with the principle of all Non-Executive Directors holding contracts of employment for a specific term.
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, including both the main principles and supporting principles, by complying with the Combined Code as noted above.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Directors remuneration report on page 42.
The Company is aware of the terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in May 2010 which will apply for the first time to the Company from 1 April 2011 and is taking appropriate steps to ensure compliance with that code.
Composition of the Board During the year the Board comprised the Chairman, three Non-Executive Directors including the Senior Independent Director and two Executive Directors being the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
In April 2010, the Company announced the appointment of Herv Couturier as a Non-Executive Director.
Further details of the process for the appointment of Mr Couturier are contained in the Nominations Committee report.
In addition, in April 2010, it was announced that following eleven years of service to the Group, David Mann was to retire as Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director at the Annual General Meeting in July 2010.
In November 2010, the Company announced that after twenty one years with AVEVA, and the last ten years serving as Group Finance Director, Paul Taylor had decided to step down from the Board with effect from 1 January 2011.
Paul was replaced on the Board by James Kidd whose appointment as Chief Financial Officer was announced in November 2010 and became effective 1 January 2011.
James Kidd has been an employee of the Company since 2004, has held several senior roles and has been Head of Finance since 2006.
Brief biographical details of all Board members are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The membership of all Board Committees is set out below: Treasury Risk Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Management Nick Prest Chairman Chairman Member Chairman Philip Dayer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Chairman Member Chairman 1 David Mann Independent Non-Executive Director Member Jonathan Brooks Independent Non-Executive Director Member Chairman Member Member Member 2 Herv Couturier Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Richard Longdon Chief Executive Member 3 James Kidd Chief Financial Officer Member Member 1 Retired from the Board on 7 July 2010.
In the period prior to his retirement David Mann was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Committee.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2010.
3 Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2011.
Prior to James Kidds appointment Paul Taylor served as Group Finance Director and was also a member of the Treasury Risk Management Committee.
Paul Taylor resigned from the Board on 1 January 2011.
Operation of the Board The AVEVA Group Board meets regularly in combination with the Board of AVEVA Solutions Limited, the main operating company in the Group which owns all of the Groups trading subsidiaries.
The AVEVA Solutions Limited Board includes as members the Head of Product Development and the Head of Group Operations as well as all the members of the Group Board.
This ensures that the AVEVA Group Board is well informed on technical and market factors driving the Groups performance as well as on financial outcomes.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision that covers key areas of the Groups affairs, which include: overall responsibility for the strategy of the Group: corporate governance: review of trading performance and forecasts: risk management: board membership: communications with shareholders: approval of major transactions, including mergers and acquisitions: and approval of the financial statements and annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
38 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Corporate Governance statement continued Operation of the Board continued The Board met nine times during the year.
The Board delegates the day to day responsibility for managing the Group to the Executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures that the Board functions effectively, overseeing the timely and effective provision of information to the Board.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance of Board meetings and all members of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Treasury Risk Management Committees respectively prior to meetings of such Committees.
The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below: Treasury Risk Audit Remuneration Nominations Management Board Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Number of meetings held: 9 3 3 1 2 Number of meetings attended: Nick Prest 9 3 1 David Mann retired 7 July 2010 2 1 1 Jonathan Brooks 9 3 2 1 2 Philip Dayer 9 3 2 1 2 Herv Couturier 4 1 Richard Longdon 9 Paul Taylor resigned 1 January 2011 7 2 James Kidd appointed 1 January 2011 2 Meetings were held between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors during the year, without the Executives being present, to discuss appropriate matters as necessary.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors take independent professional advice where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors at the Groups expense in the appropriate circumstances.
All members of the Board have access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors are encouraged annually to undertake training in furtherance of their specific roles and general duties as a Director.
Performance evaluation The Combined Code requires that the Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation is designed to determine whether the Board continues to be capable of providing the high level judgement required and whether, as a Board, The Directors are informed and up to date with the business and its goals and understand the context within which it operates.
The evaluation in 2011 was conducted by the Chairman who concluded that it was working satisfactorily.
As part of the Board review process the performance of the Chairman was assessed by the Senior Independent Director following consultation with the other Non-Executive Directors.
The Company is aware that the terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which will apply to the Company for the first time from 1 April 2011, state that the evaluation of the Board for a company that is a member of the FTSE 350 should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Company is considering the most effective way in which to implement this principle and the most appropriate timing for first involving external facilitation.
Indemnities to Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance of their duties in their capacity as Directors to the Company.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent the Director is proven to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has maintained Directors and officers liability insurance cover throughout the year.
Policy on appointment and re-appointment In accordance with the Articles of Association, all Directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election at least every three years by rotation, and also following their appointment.
Following his appointment in January 2011, James Kidd is subject to election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In addition, as in the prior year and in accordance with Corporate Governance best practice, all of the remaining Board members are offering themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
On appointment, all Directors are asked to confirm that they have sufficient time to devote to the role which is confirmed together with details of their duties in the letter of appointment.
All Directors undergo an induction as soon as practical following their appointment.
As part of the induction process, Directors are provided with background information on the Group and attend the Groups headquarters in Cambridge for meetings and presentations from senior management.
In addition, where appropriate, meetings are also arranged with the Groups advisers.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection on the day of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 39 Operation of the Board continued Independence of Non-Executive Directors and segregation of duties The Board has considered the independence of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors and believes that all are currently independent of management and free from any material business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Their biographies on pages 30 and 31 demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring the independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital to the Group.
Herv Couturier was appointed to the Board in April 2010.
After a formal review, the Board concluded that Mr Couturier is independent in character and judgement.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are distinct and the division of responsibility between these roles has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and ensuring that it meets its obligations and responsibilities.
The Chief Executive is responsible to the Board for the day to day management of the business, leadership of the executive team and execution of the Groups strategic and operating plans.
Committees of the Board The Board has four Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Treasury Risk Management.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the duties of the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
They are available on request from the Companys registered office during normal business hours and are available on the Companys website at www.
Nominations Committee Committee Chairman: Nick Prest Committee Members: Jonathan Brooks Philip Dayer The Nominations Committee was formed in April 2009.
The Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings as appropriate to the business being considered.
The activities of the Nominations Committee include nomination, selection and appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors, succession planning and the composition of the Board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills and experience.
The Nominations Committee meets periodically when required.
In addition to the meetings there are a number of ad-hoc meetings to address specific matters.
On 1 April 2010, Herv Couturier was appointed to the Board.
External search consultants were engaged by the Nominations Committee to assist in the identification of appropriate candidates having considered the requisite skills, knowledge and experience required for the position.
All short listed candidates were interviewed and as a result Mr Couturier was selected and his appointment was then recommended to and approved by the Board.
During the year, Paul Taylor indicated to the Board of his intention to step down as Finance Director.
The Board again appointed an external executive search firm to assist with the selection of appropriate candidates having considered the requisite skills, knowledge and experience required for the position.
The shortlisted individuals who included both external and internal candidates were interviewed by the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, the Chair of the Audit Committee and the Chief Executive.
As a result, the Nominations Committee recommended the appointment of James Kidd as Chief Financial Officer to the Board with effect from 1 January 2011.
Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman: Philip Dayer Committee Members: Nick Prest Jonathan Brooks The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy for Executive and senior management remuneration and determines the individual remuneration packages on behalf of the Board for the Executive Directors of the Group.
The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation, except when the Chief Executives own remuneration package is being discussed.
The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and outside the Company, in the furtherance of its duties.
During the year the Committee asked Deloitte LLP for advice on the structure and comparability of Non-Executive, Executive and senior management remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report sets out in more detail the Remuneration Committees policies and practices on Executive remuneration.
Audit Committee Committee Chairman: Jonathan Brooks Committee Members: Philip Dayer Herv Couturier The Chairman of the Committee is deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant and has held a number of senior financial positions in his career.
Herv Couturier joined the Audit Committee from the date of the last Annual General Meeting 7 July 2010 being the date that David Mann retired.
The Committee invites the Chief Financial Officer and senior representatives from the auditors to attend meetings as appropriate to the business being considered.
The Committee also meet with the auditors without any members of the executive management team being present.
Subsequent to the year end, an Audit Committee meeting was held to review the results of the audit, which was attended by all members.
40 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Corporate Governance statement continued Committees of the Board continued Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee met three times during the year to review the scope of the audit and the audit procedures, the format and content of the audited financial statements and interim reports, including the notes and the accounting principles applied.
The Audit Committee members as part of the full Board review all proposed announcements to be made by the Group to the extent that they contain financial information.
The Audit Committee considers the effectiveness of financial reporting and internal controls, compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority and also reviews any proposed change in accounting policies and any recommendations from the Groups auditors regarding improvements to internal controls and the adequacy of resources within the Groups finance function.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with external auditors.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Controls in place to ensure this include monitoring of the independence and effectiveness of the audit, implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, and a review of the scope of the audit and fee and performance of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee monitors fees paid to the auditors for non-audit work and delegates the authority for approval of such work to the Chief Financial Officer where the level of fees involved are insignificant.
During the year there was limited non-audit work performed by the auditors which mainly consisted of tax compliance work for subsidiaries of the Group and other statutory filing work.
Any significant non-audit work such as reporting accountant engagements would require prior approval from the Audit Committee.
The Group engages other independent firms of accountants to perform tax consulting work and other consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the auditors is not compromised.
Audit partners are rotated every five years and a formal statement of independence is received from the auditors each year.
The Board and the Audit Committee are satisfied that the independence of the auditors has been maintained.
An analysis of non-audit fees is provided in note 7 to the financial statements.
There is a formal whistle-blowing policy which has been communicated to employees.
This policy provides information on the process to follow in the event that any employee feels it is appropriate to make a disclosure.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the policy provides an adequate basis for employees to make representations in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and proportionate investigations.
The Board and the Audit Committee have considered the requirement to have an internal audit function and, given the Groups relative size, do not consider one necessary at this point but will continue to monitor this annually.
Treasury Risk Management Committee TRMC Committee Chairman: Philip Dayer Committee Members: Jonathan Brooks James Kidd The TRMC was formed in April 2009 to oversee the Groups treasury function given the increasing importance of managing the Groups treasury activities and associated risks.
In addition to the above members, the Head of Corporate Reporting and Group Treasurer are also invited to attend the meetings.
The TRMC reviews the Groups overall financial risk management including: foreign exchange risk and related hedging policy: credit risk which includes monitoring the Groups counter-party exposure to banks: and liquidity risk which includes reviewing the cash management structure in the Group.
The policies of the Group in relation to these areas are explained in note 25 to the financial statements.
During the year the TRMC met twice to discuss the above matters and provided a report to the Board after each meeting.
Paul Taylor was a member of the Committee prior to his resignation effective 1 January 2011.
Following Paul Taylors resignation, James Kidd has been appointed as a member of the TRMC but the committee did not meet between the date of his appointment and the year end date.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the Board.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer have meetings with representatives of institutional shareholders and hold analyst briefings at least twice a year, following the announcement of the interim and full year results, but also at other times during the year as necessary.
The Chairman also met with certain shareholders during the year to discuss strategy and performance of the business.
Senior managers from Product Development, Business Strategy and Finance also attended analyst and shareholder meetings during the year.
All of these meetings seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives with major shareholders by discussing long-term strategy and obtaining feedback.
The Board also receives formal feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders through the Companys public relations adviser and financial adviser.
The Board is also appraised of discussions with major shareholders to ensure that Executive and Non-Executive Directors consider any matter raised by shareholders and to enable all Directors to understand shareholder views.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Philip Dayer, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or if such contact would be inappropriate.
The Chairman, Senior Independent and Non-Executive Directors are available for dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend together with the other members of the Board the Annual General Meeting, but are not routinely involved in investor relations or shareholder communications.
Corporate information is also available on the Companys website, www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 41 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and all shareholders are encouraged to participate.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and the Treasury Risk Management Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
Share capital structure Further information on the share capital structure of the Company is contained on pages 34 and 35.
Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure and by its very nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, which have been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and believes that it is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The key elements of the system of internal controls currently include: an Executive Board comprising the Executive Directors, Group Operations Director, Group Product Development Director, and Head of Group Human Resources.
Each member has responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups operations.
They meet on a regular basis and are responsible for the operational strategy, reviewing operating results, identification and mitigation of risks and communication and application of the Groups policies and procedures.
Where appropriate, matters are reported to the Board: regular reports to the Board from the Executive Directors, Group Operations Director, Group Product Development Director, Head of Group Human Resources and Sales Division Managers on key developments, financial performance and operational issues in the business: operational and financial controls and procedures which include authorisation limits for expenditure, sales contracts and capital expenditure, signing authorities, IT application controls, organisation structure, Group policies, segregation of duties and reviews by management: an annual budget process which is reviewed, monitored and approved by the Board: regular meetings between the Executive Board, Sales Division managers and Product Development managers to discuss actual performance against forecast, budget and prior years.
The operating results are reported on a monthly basis to the Board and compared to the budget and the latest forecast as appropriate: and maintenance of insurance cover to insure all major risk areas of the Group based on the scale of the risk and availability of the cover in the external market.
The Boards monitoring covers all material controls, including financial, non-financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board periodically carries out visits to the Groups subsidiaries and receives presentations on their operations.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual report.
This involved reviewing the reports from a risk assessment workshop involving the Executive Board and senior members of management from Product Development, Sales and Finance Legal.
The workshop was conducted in January 2011 and was facilitated by a third party.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control necessary for the Company to successfully carry out the key business strategies of the Group.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
