Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Financial statements Group AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 55 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Corporate information AVEVA Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered office is given on page 32.
AVEVA Group plcs shares are publicly traded on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
2 Basis of preparation The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011.
The Consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The Group presents a non-GAAP performance measure on the face of the Consolidated income statement.
The Directors believe that this alternative measure of profit provides a reliable and consistent measure of the Groups underlying performance.
The face of the Consolidated income statement presents adjusted profit before tax and reconciles this to profit before tax as required to be presented under the applicable accounting standards.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated having adjusted profit after tax for the same items and their tax effect.
The term adjusted profit is not defined under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures of profit.
a Statement of compliance The Consolidated financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and all its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The parent Company financial statements of AVEVA Group plc have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and are included on pages 81 to 86. b Basis of consolidation The Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 March each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared using existing GAAP for each country of operation.
Adjustments are made to translate any differences that may exist between the respective local GAAP and IFRSs.
Inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
On acquisition, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, with any excess of the cost of acquisition over this value being capitalised as goodwill.
c Adoption of new and revised standards The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
The other pronouncements which came into force during the year were not relevant to the Group.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Arrangements The amendment clarifies the accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions, where a subsidiary receives goods or services from employees or suppliers but the parent or another entity in the Group pays for those goods or services.
This amendment did not have a significant impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Improvements to IFRS issued 2009 In April 2009 the Board issued its second omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each amendment.
The adoption of the amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
New standards and interpretations not yet effective During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards which are expected to have implications for the reporting of the financial position or performance of the Group or which will require additional disclosures in future financial years: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement This is the first part of a new standard to replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is at amortised cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent principal and interest.
Otherwise it is at fair value through profit or loss.
Published by the IASB in November 2009, this is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
This standard is not yet endorsed by the European Union.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment effective 1 January 2011 The amended standard clarified the definition of a related party to simplify the identification of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its application.
The revised standard introduces a partial exemption of disclosure requirements for government related entities.
The Group does not expect any impact on its financial position or performance.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement Amendment The amendment to IFRIC 14 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 with retrospective application.
The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset.
The amendment permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
The amendment is not considered to have an impact on the financial statements of the Group.
