Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Financial statements Group AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 59 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued m Taxation continued The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each Balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance sheet date.
The income tax effects of items recorded in either other comprehensive income or equity are recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income or the Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity respectively.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Revenue, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales taxes except: where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales taxes included.
The net amount of sales taxes recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Consolidated balance sheet.
n Post retirement benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, Sweden and Germany.
The Group also provides certain post employment benefits to its South Korean employees.
The UK defined benefit pension scheme, previously available to all UK employees, was closed to new applicants in 2002.
UK employees are now offered membership of a defined contribution scheme.
The German unfunded defined benefit scheme is closed to new applicants and provides benefits to 3 deferred members following an acquisition in 1992 by Tribon.
No current employees participate in the scheme.
Full provision has been made for the liability on the Consolidated balance sheet.
The Group also operates a defined benefit pension scheme for 1 German employee.
The Group provides pension arrangements to its Swedish employees through an industry-wide defined benefit scheme.
It is not possible to identify the share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the scheme which is attributable to the Group on a fair and reasonable basis.
Therefore the Group has applied the provisions in IAS 19 to account for the scheme as if it was a defined contribution scheme.
For the defined benefit schemes, the defined benefit obligation is calculated annually for each plan by qualified external actuaries using the projected unit credit method which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation.
The retirement benefit liability in the Consolidated balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate derived from a published index of AA rated corporate bonds as reduced by the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
The current service cost is recognised in the Consolidated income statement as an employee benefit expense.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
The expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the Consolidated income statement as finance revenue and finance expenses respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments or changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group also operates defined contribution pension schemes for a number of UK and non-UK employees.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to profit before tax as they become payable.
o Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, further details of which are given in note 28.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of AVEVA Group plc market conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the date of modification.
