56 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Financial statements Group www.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Significant accounting estimates The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of judgement and estimation uncertainty at the Balance sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: a Retirement benefit obligations The determination of the Groups obligations and expense for defined benefit pensions is dependent on the selection, by the Board of Directors, of assumptions used by the pension scheme actuary in calculating these amounts.
The assumptions applied are described in note 27 and include, amongst others, the discount rate, the inflation rate, rates of increase in salaries and mortality rates.
While the Directors consider that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in the actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the reported amount of the Groups future pension obligations, actuarial gains and losses included in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in future years and the future staff costs.
The carrying amount of retirement benefit obligations at 31 March 2011 was 3,027,000 2010 13,082,000. b Provision for impairment of receivables The Group makes provision for the impairment of receivables on a customer specific basis.
The determination of the appropriate level of provision involves an estimate of the potential risk of default or non-payment by the Groups customers and management consider a number of factors including the financial strength of the customers, the level of default that the Group has suffered in the past, the age of the receivable outstanding and the Groups trading experience with that customer.
The provision for impairment of receivables at 31 March 2011 was 3,643,000 2010 6,629,000.
4 Summary of significant accounting policies a Revenue The Group generates its revenue principally from licensing the rights to use its software products directly to end users and to a lesser extent indirectly through resellers.
Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents the amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the ordinary course of business, net of discounts and sales taxes.
It comprises of initial licence fees, annual fees and rental licence fees, together with income from consultancy and other related services.
For each revenue stream, revenue is not recognised unless and until: a clear contractual arrangement can be evidenced: delivery has been made in accordance with that contract: if required, contractual acceptance criteria have been met: and the fee has been agreed and collectability is probable.
Initial annual licence agreements Users are charged an initial licence fee upon installation for a set number of users together with an obligatory annual fee, which is charged every year.
Annual fees consist of the right to use and customer support and maintenance, which includes core product upgrades and enhancements and remote support services.
Users must continue to pay annual fees in order to maintain the right to use the software.
Initial licence fees are recognised once the above conditions have been met.
Annual fees are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the contract, which is typically 12 months.
If annual fees are charged at a discount, an amount is allocated out of the initial licence fee at fair market value based on the value established when annual fees are charged separately to customers.
Rental licence agreements As an alternative to the initial licence fee plus annual fee model, the Group also supplies its software under 3 different types of rental licence agreement.
Rental licence fees which are invoiced monthly and which are cancellable by the customer are recognised on a monthly basis.
Other rental licence agreements are invoiced at the start of the contracted period, are non-cancellable and consist of two separate components, the right to use and customer support and maintenance.
Revenue in respect of the customer support and maintenance element is valued at fair market value based on the value established when annual fees are charged separately to customer.
This component is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the contract.
The residual amount representing the right to use element is recognised upfront, provided all of the above criteria have been met.
Where uncertainty exists and it is not possible to reliably determine the fair value of the customer support and maintenance element, total revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the contract.
The Group also licenses its software using a token licensing model.
Under this model, a basket of tokens representing licences to use different software products over a defined period is granted, which enables the customer to draw these down as and when required.
Where the customer commits in advance to a specified number of tokens over a defined period, a proportion of revenue is recognised with an appropriate element deferred for customer support and maintenance obligations, subject to the above recognition conditions being met.
Where the customer is charged in arrears, revenue is recognised based on actual number of tokens used.
