Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Financial statements Group AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 57 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued a Revenue continued Services Services consist primarily of consultancy, implementation services and training and are performed under separate service arrangements.
Revenue from these services is recognised as the services are performed and stage of completion is determined by reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the service project.
If a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised only to the extent that costs have been incurred.
Provision is made as soon as a loss is foreseen.
If an arrangement includes both licence and service elements, licence fee revenue is recognised upon delivery of the software provided that services do not include significant customisation or modification of the base product and the payment terms for licences are not subject to acceptance criteria.
In all other cases, revenues from both licence and service elements are recognised as services are performed.
b Foreign currencies The functional and presentational currency of AVEVA Group plc is Pounds Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the Balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of the initial transaction.
The subsidiaries have a number of different functional currencies.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into Pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the Balance sheet date, and their Income statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
c Exceptional items The Group discloses items of both income and expense which are exceptional by virtue of their size or incidence so as to allow a better understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
The Group includes the costs of significant restructuring exercises, fees associated with business combinations and costs incurred in integrating acquired companies.
d Goodwill Goodwill on acquisitions is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
If the potential benefit of tax losses or other deferred tax assets does not satisfy the criteria in IFRS 3 for separate recognition when a business combination is initially accounted for but is subsequently realised, the Group recognises the deferred tax income in the Consolidated income statement.
e Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and from a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the cost model is applied to each class of intangible assets as set out below.
Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the Consolidated income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Internal software development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of the asset, which are as follows: Years Developed technology 512 Customer relationships 1020 Other software 3 Purchased software rights 510 f Research expenditure Research expenditure is written off in the year of expenditure.
