48 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Financial statements Group www.
com Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Consolidated financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the Consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare Consolidated financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Consolidated financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
This Annual report contains forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Rather, they are based on current views and assumptions and are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results or developments expressed or implied from the forward-looking statements.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement and save to the extent required by the applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake any obligation to update or renew any forward-looking statement.
