58 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Financial statements Group www.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write down the assets to their estimated residual value over the useful economic life of the asset as follows: Years Computer equipment 3 Fixtures, fittings and office equipment 68 Motor vehicles 4 Leasehold buildings and improvements are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease 3 to 49 years or useful economic life, if shorter.
h Impairment of assets Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and generates cash flows which are independent of other cash-generating units.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstance indicate that it might be impaired.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
i Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the Consolidated balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of 3 months or less.
The carrying amount of these approximates their fair value.
For the purpose of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
k Derivative financial instruments The only derivative financial instruments the Group holds are forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group has not applied hedge accounting during the year and therefore all forward foreign exchange contracts have been marked-to-market and are held at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheet with any movements being recorded in the Consolidated income statement.
Fair value is estimated using the settlement rates prevailing at the period end.
l Leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
m Taxation Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the Balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred income tax liability arises from goodwill amortisation or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised: except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
