Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 91 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Presentation of Financial Statements Compliance with Applicable Law and IFRS The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and related interpretations.
Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial assets, fixed rate bonds and defined benefit pension obligations that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to one decimal of the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 24 amended Related Party Disclosures IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IFRIC 14 amended Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
We have not yet considered the quantitative impact of adoption of IFRS 9.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the going concern basis of accounting.
The use of this basis of accounting takes into consideration the Groups current and forecast financing position, additional details of which are provided in the Going Concern section of the Directors Report.
Parent Company Financial Statements The financial statements of the parent company, Vedanta Resources plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, UK accounting presentation and UK company law.
The Company balance sheet is presented in Note 41.
2. a Accounting Policies Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial information incorporates the results of the Company and all its subsidiaries, being the companies that it controls.
This control is normally evidenced when the Group is able to govern a companys financial and operating policies so as to benefit from its activities or where the Group owns, either directly or indirectly, the majority of a companys equity voting rights unless in exceptional circumstances it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute control.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company.
Where necessary adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with accounting policies used by the Group.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit for the financial year and net assets is attributed to the minority interests as shown in the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet.
For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries, where there is no change in control, the Group recognises a reduction to the non-controlling interest of the respective subsidiary with the difference between this figure and the cash paid, inclusive of transaction fees, being recognised in equity.
In addition, upon dilution of non-controlling interests the difference between the cash received from sale or listing of the subsidiary shares and the increase to non-controlling interest is also recognised in equity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
We have reclassified the prior year income statement to reflect the depreciation charge associated with administration and distribution activities that was previously included in cost of sales.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 92 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. a Accounting Policies continued Adoption of New Standards In the current financial period the Group has adopted the following new standards: The Group has adopted with effect from 1 April 2010, on a prospective basis, IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations, and consequential amendments to IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
IAS 27 Revised requires the effect of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recognised in equity where there is no change in control.
The Company adopted an amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements on 1 April 2010.
This requires that when a transaction occurs with non-controlling interests in company entities that do not result in a change in control, the difference between the consideration paid or received and the recorded non-controlling interest should be recognised in equity.
Cash flows related to such transactions are to be reported within financing activities in the statement of cash flows.
Previously these were presented as investing activities.
Comparative information has been reclassified.
In addition the amounts paid for the purchases of treasury shares previously presented in net cash used in investing activities are now presented in net cash from financing activities.
The adoption of the revised standard has resulted in reference to minority interests being amended to non-controlling interests.
There has been no additional impact on the Group apart from the items described above.
Other amendments to accounting standards or new interpretations issued by International Accounting Standards Board, which were applicable from 1 April 2010, do not have an impact on the Group.
Revenue Recognition Revenue represents the net invoice value of goods and services provided to third parties after deducting discounts, volume rebates, outgoing sales taxes and duties, and are recognised when all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to the customer.
Revenues from sale of material by-products are included in revenue.
Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis in the income statement.
Certain of our sales contracts provide for provisional pricing based on the price on The London Metal Exchange Limited LME, as specified in the contract, when shipped.
Final settlement of the prices is based on the applicable price for a specified future period.
The Companys provisionally priced sales are marked to market using the relevant forward prices for the future period specified in the contract with a corresponding adjustment to revenue.
Revenue from holding certificate contracts is recognised when goods have been delivered to a distribution warehouse or has been identified and kept separately, have been inspected by a nominee of the buyer and cash has been received.
Under these arrangements, revenue is recognised once legal title has passed and all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to the customer.
Special Items Special items are those items that management considers, by virtue of their size or incidence, should be disclosed separately to ensure that the financial information allows an understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
The determination as to which items should be disclosed separately requires a degree of judgement.
Business Combinations The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are consolidated for the periods from, or to, the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method.
The acquirers identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
To the extent that such excess purchase consideration relates to the acquisition of mining properties and leases, that amount is capitalised within property, plant and equipment as mining properties and leases.
Other excess purchase consideration relating to the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised as goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is reviewed for impairment annually.
Where the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities exceed the cost of acquisition, the surplus is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where it is not possible to complete the determination of fair values by the date on which the first post-acquisition financial statements are approved, a provisional assessment of fair values is made and any adjustments required to those provisional fair values, and the corresponding adjustments to purchased goodwill, are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 93 2. a Accounting Policies continued The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net assets or proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
This accounting choice is made on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition expenses are charged to income statement in line with IFRS 3 Revised.
Property, Plant and Equipment Mining Properties and Leases Exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment under the heading Mining properties and leases in the year in which they are incurred.
When a decision is taken that a mining property is viable for commercial production, all further pre-production primary development expenditure other than land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised as part of the cost of the mining property until the mining property is capable of commercial production.
From that point, capitalised mining properties and lease costs are amortised on a unit-of-production basis over the total estimated remaining commercial reserves of each property or group of properties.
Exploration and evaluation assets acquired are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition subject to meeting the commercial production criteria mentioned above and are subject to impairment review.
Stripping costs and secondary development expenditure, mainly comprising of costs on blasting, haulage, excavation, etc.
incurred during the production stage of an ore body are charged to the income statement immediately.
In circumstances where a mining property is abandoned, the cumulative capitalised costs relating to the property are written off in the period.
Commercial reserves are proved and probable reserves as defined by the JORC Code and SAMREC Code.
Changes in the commercial reserves affecting unit of production calculations are dealt with prospectively over the revised remaining reserves.
Other Property, Plant and Equipment The initial cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, and any directly attributable costs of bringing an asset to working condition and location for its intended use, including relevant borrowing costs and any expected costs of decommissioning.
Expenditure incurred after the property, plant and equipment have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance, are charged to the income statement in the period in which the costs are incurred.
Major shut-down and overhaul expenditure is capitalised as the activities undertaken improve the economic benefits expected to arise from the asset.
Assets in the Course of Construction Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the assets under construction account.
At the point when an asset is operating at managements intended use, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
Costs associated with the commissioning of an asset and any obligatory decommissioning costs are capitalised where the asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels until a period of commissioning has been completed.
Revenue generated from production during the trial period is capitalised.
Borrowing costs and certain foreign exchange gains or losses are in certain circumstances capitalised in the cost of the asset under construction.
This policy is set out under Borrowing Costs.
Depreciation and Amortisation Mining properties and other assets in the course of development or construction, freehold land and goodwill are not depreciated or amortised.
Capitalised mining properties and lease costs are amortised once commercial production commences, as described in Property, plant and equipment mining properties and leases.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the period of the lease or if shorter their useful economic life.
Other buildings, plant and equipment, office equipment and fixtures, and motor vehicles are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Buildings: Operations 30 years Administration 50 years Plant and equipment 1020 years Office equipment and fixtures 320 years Motor vehicles 911 years Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 94 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. a Accounting Policies continued Major overhaul costs are depreciated over the estimated life of the economic benefit derived from the overhaul.
The carrying amount of the remaining previous overhaul cost is charged to the income statement if the next overhaul is undertaken earlier than the previously estimated life of the economic benefit.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale or which is part of a disposal group held for sale is not depreciated.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale is carried at the lower of its carrying value and fair value less disposal cost and is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
Impairment The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable and the carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually.
If there are indicators of impairment, an assessment is made to determine whether the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
Whenever the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is charged to the income statement.
The Group reviews the residual value and useful life of an asset at least at each financial year-end and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the change is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate.
For mining properties and leases, other investments and goodwill, the recoverable amount of an asset is determined on the basis of its value in use, being the present value of estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life, discounted using a market-based, risk-adjusted, discount rate.
For other property, plant and equipment, the recoverable amount of an asset is also considered on the basis of its net selling price, where it is possible to assess the amount that could be obtained from the sale of an asset in an arms length transaction, less the cost of disposal.
Recoverable amounts are estimated for individual assets or, if this is not possible, for the relevant cash generating unit.
Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable from the date of classification, management are committed to the sale and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale from the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment loss is recognised in the income statement as a special item.
On classification as held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated.
Government Grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Other grants are credited to the income statement as and when the related expenditure is incurred.
Inventories Inventories and work-in-progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, less any provision for obsolescence.
Cost is determined on the following bases: Purchased copper concentrate is recorded at cost on a first-in, first-out FIFO basis: all other materials including stores and spares are valued on weighted average basis.
Finished products are valued at raw material cost plus costs of conversion, comprising labour costs and an attributable proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal levels of activity: and by-products and scrap are valued at net realisable value.
Net realisable value is determined based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Taxation Tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 95 2. a Accounting Policies continued Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Exceptions to this principle are: Tax payable on the future remittance of the past earnings of subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax is not recognised on goodwill impairment which is not deductible for tax purposes or on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority upon a specific entity and the relevant Group entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Retirement Benefit Schemes The Group operates or participates in a number of defined benefits and contribution schemes, the assets of which are where funded held in separately administered funds.
For defined benefit schemes the cost of providing benefits under the plans is determined each year separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method by independent qualified actuaries.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are recognised in full in the income statement of the year.
For defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
Share-based Payments Certain employees including Executive Directors of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions are determined by an external valuer and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the current expectations.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources, that can be reliably estimated, will be required to settle such an obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows to net present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Unwinding of the discount is recognised in the income statement as a finance cost.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Restoration, Rehabilitation and Environmental Costs An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mine.
Costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to net present value, are provided for and a corresponding amount is capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are charged to the income statement over the life of the operation through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
The cost estimates are reviewed periodically and are adjusted to reflect known developments which may have an impact on the cost estimates or life of operations.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for changes in the provision due to factors such as updated cost estimates, new disturbance and revisions to discount rates.
The adjusted cost of the asset is depreciated prospectively over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
The unwinding of the discount is shown as a finance cost in the income statement.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is caused on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their net present values and charged to the income statement as extraction progresses.
Where the costs of site restoration are not anticipated to be significant, they are expensed as incurred.
com 96 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. a Accounting Policies continued Leases Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Foreign Currency Translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all principal operating subsidiaries, the functional currency is the local currency of the country in which it operates, except KCM where the functional currency is US dollars, since that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
In the financial statements of individual Group companies, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are translated into functional currency at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are included in the income statement, except, where the monetary item is designated as an effective hedging instrument of the currency risk of designated forecast sales, where exchange differences are recognised in equity exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings relating to assets under construction, for future productive use, which are included in the cost of those assets when they are regarded as an adjustment to interest costs on those foreign currency borrowings.
For the purposes of consolidation, the income statement items of those entities for which the US dollar is not the functional currency are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange during the period.
The related balance sheets are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and results of such operations, and on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such operations, are reported in other comprehensive inward and accumulated in equity.
On disposal of entities with a different functional currency to the Companys functional currency, the deferred cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity relating to that particular operation would be recognised in the income statement.
Financial Asset Investments Financial asset investments are classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39 and are initially recorded at cost and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on financial asset investments are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, the gains and losses in equity are recycled to the income statement.
Investments in unquoted equity instruments that do not have a market price and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are measured at cost.
Investments in equity instruments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year.
Liquid Investments Liquid investments represent short-term current asset investments that do not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents for one or more of the following reasons: They have a maturity profile greater than 90 days.
They may be subject to a greater risk of changes in value than cash.
They are held for investment purposes.
The change in fair value of trading investments incorporates any dividend and interest earned on the held for trading investments.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits with banks and shortterm highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments.
Trade Receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for impairment for trade receivables is made where there is an event, which based on previous experience, is an indication of a reduction in the recoverability of the carrying value of the trade receivables.
Trade Payables Trade payables are stated at their nominal value.
Equity Instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged to the income statement using the effective interest method.
They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 97 2. a Accounting Policies continued Convertible Bonds Convertible bonds denominated in the functional currency of the issuing entity are accounted for as compound instruments.
The equity components and the liability components are separated out on the date of the issue.
The equity component is recognised in a separate reserve and is not subsequently remeasured.
The liability component is held at amortised cost.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the effective interest rate, being the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between this amount and interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability component.
Convertible bonds not denominated in the functional currency of the issuing entity or where a cash conversion option exists, are split into two components: a debt component and a component representing the embedded derivative in the convertible bond.
The debt component represents a liability for future coupon payments and the redemption on the principal amount.
The embedded derivative, a financial liability, represents the value of the option that bond holders have to convert into ordinary shares.
At inception the embedded derivative is recorded at fair value and the remaining balance, after deducting a share of issue costs, is recorded as the debt component.
Subsequently, the debt component is measured at amortised cost and the embedded derivative is measured at fair value at each balance sheet dates with the change in the fair value recognised in the income statement.
The embedded derivative and the debt component are disclosed together and the current non-current classification follows the classification of the debt component which is the host contract.
The deferred tax effect arising on the movement in the fair value of the embedded derivative is provided in the income statement.
Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs directly relating to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying capital project under construction are capitalised and added to the project cost during construction until such time that the assets are substantially ready for their intended use in accordance with the Group policy which is when they are capable of commercial production.
Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where surplus funds are available out of money borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated from such short-term investments is also capitalised to reduce the total capitalised borrowing cost.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Available-for-sale Financial Assets Listed equity shares and debt instruments held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being available-for-sale AFS financial assets and are stated at fair value.
Dividends received from investees accounted for as equity instruments are recognised in income statement when the Group receives the dividends.
Held for Trading Financial Assets Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term.
The change in fair value of trading investments incorporates any dividend and interest earned on the held for trading investments and is accounted for in the income statement.
Held-to-maturity Financial Assets Financial instruments with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity investments.
Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative Financial Instruments In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks, the Group enters into forward, option, swap contracts and other derivative financial instruments.
The Group does not hold derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at their fair value on the date of the derivative transaction and are remeasured at their fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Hedge Accounting The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement.
The hedged item is recorded at fair value and any gain or loss is recorded in the income statement and is offset by the gain or loss from the change in the fair value of the derivative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in equity.
This includes certain non-derivative liabilities that are designated as instruments used to hedge the foreign currency risk on future, highly probable, forecast sales.
Amounts deferred to equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
com 98 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. a Accounting Policies continued Derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the balance sheet date and gains or losses are recognised in the income statement immediately.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the year.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
2. b Critical Accounting Judgement and Estimation Uncertainty In the course of applying the policies outlined in Note 2 a, management made estimations and assumptions that impact the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Vedanta believes that judgement and estimation has been made in the following areas: Mining Properties and Leases The carrying value of mining property and leases is arrived at by depreciating the assets over the life of the mine using the unit of production method based on proved and probable reserves.
The estimate of reserves is subject to assumptions relating to life of the mine and may change when new information becomes available.
Changes in reserves as a result of factors such as production cost, recovery rates, grade of reserves or commodity prices could impact the depreciation rates, asset carrying values and environmental and restoration provisions.
Useful Economic Lives of Assets and Impairment Property, plant and equipment other than mining properties and leases are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Management reviews the useful economic lives at least once a year and any changes could affect the depreciation rates prospectively and hence the asset carrying values.
The Group also reviews its property, plant and equipment, including mining properties and leases, for possible impairment if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable.
In assessing the property, plant and equipment for impairment, factors leading to significant reduction in profits such as changes in commodity prices, the Groups business plans and significant downward revision in the estimated mining reserves are taken into consideration.
The carrying value of the assets of a cash generating unit CGU and associated mining reserves is compared with the recoverable amount of those assets, that is, the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Value in use is usually determined on the basis of discounted estimated future cash flows.
This involves management estimates on commodity prices, market demand and supply, economic and regulatory climates, long-term mine plan, discount rates and other factors.
Any subsequent changes to cash flow due to changes in the above mentioned factors could impact on the carrying value of the assets.
Assessment of Impairment at Lanjigarh Refinery As set out in the risks and uncertainties section of this Annual Report, the planned operation of the Lanjigarh Refinery is subject to a number of legal proceedings.
It has been assessed that there is no impairment of the Lanjigarh Refinery on 31 March 2011 based on the assumptions set out below: The State of Orissa has abundant bauxite reserves and under the terms of its MOU with the State Government of Orissa, management is confident that bauxite will be made available in the shortto medium-term.
On the continued operation and planned refinery expansion, management is confident that all of the conditions for construction of the alumina refinery have been complied with, and expect the approval for the same in due course.
Should one or both of these assumptions not be borne out, a reassessment of the impairment of the refinery would need to be made.
Assessment of Impairment at Tuticorin During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group was ordered to close the Tuticorin smelter pursuant to an order from the Madras High Court.
The Group has been successful in obtaining stay orders to allow the continued operation of the smelter while an appeal is heard in the Supreme Court.
The Directors are confident that they have complied with the environmental regulations and that they will be permitted to continue operating the Tuticorin smelter in the long-term.
Accordingly, they have concluded that no impairment of the asset is required.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 99 2. b Critical Accounting Judgement and Estimation Uncertainty continued Restoration, Rehabilitation and Environmental Costs Provision is made for costs associated with restoration and rehabilitation of mining sites as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
Such restoration and closure costs are typical of extractive industries and they are normally incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
The costs are estimated on the basis of mine closure plans and the estimated discounted costs of dismantling and removing these facilities and the costs of restoration are capitalised when incurred reflecting our obligations at that time.
A corresponding provision is created on the liability side.
The capitalised asset is charged to the income statement over the life of the asset through depreciation over the life of the operation and the provision is increased each period via unwinding the discount on the provision.
Management estimates are based on local legislation and or other agreements such as the KCM acquisition agreement.
The actual costs and cash outflows may differ from estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, changes in prices, analysis of site conditions and changes in restoration technology.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate are added to or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period.
If a change in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and amortise these estimated costs over the life of the mine.
As per local legislation, our Indian operations provide for restoration costs in accordance with statutory requirements.
In Australia, appropriate provision has been made in accordance with local legal requirements and at KCM, a provision has been recognised with reference to a plan agreed with the Government of Zambia at the time of KCMs privatisation in April 2000 and pursuant to the KCM acquisition agreement.
In Namibia, South Africa and Ireland appropriate provision has been made in accordance with the local regulatory requirements.
Provisions and Liabilities: Provisions and liabilities are recognised in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting from past operations or events that can be reasonably estimated.
The timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to existing facts and circumstances which may be subject to change.
The actual cash outflows takes place over many years in the future and hence the carrying amounts of provisions and liabilities are regularly reviewed and adjusted to take into account the changing circumstances and other factors that influence the provisions and liabilities.
Management uses its judgement in estimating close down and restoration costs and the timing of expenditure, environmental clean up costs and the timing of expenditure, liabilities for retirement benefits costs and copper price participation see Note 29.
Contingencies and Commitments: In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise from litigation and other claims against the Company.
Where it is managements assessment that the outcome cannot be reliably quantified or is uncertain the claims are disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the likelihood of an adverse outcome is remote.
Such liabilities are disclosed in the Notes but are not provided for in the financial statements.
Although there can be no assurance regarding the final outcome of the legal proceedings, we do not expect them to have a materially adverse impact on our financial position or profitability.
Segment Information The Groups primary format for segmental reporting is based on business segments.
The business segments consist of aluminium, copper, zinc, iron ore and energy with residual components being reported as Other.
Business segment data includes an allocation of certain corporate costs, allocated on an appropriate basis.
The risks and returns of the Groups operations are primarily determined by the nature of the different activities in which the Group is engaged.
Inter-segment sales are charged based on prevailing market prices.
The Groups activities are organised on a global basis.
The Groups reportable segments under IFRS 8 are as follows: Aluminium Copper-India Australia Copper-Zambia Zinc-India Zinc-International Iron Ore Energy The Energy segment includes the sales of and related costs of generating surplus power from Captive Power Plants for which the related asset carrying values are located within the other business segments.
These sales and costs are allocated on a proportionate basis from the segment that owns the captive power plants.
Management monitors the operating results of reportable segments for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated and for assessing performance.
Segment performance is evaluated based on the EBITDA of each segment.
com 100 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Segment Information continued During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Zinc assets acquired from Anglo American Plc comprising the Skorpion mine in Namibia, the Black Mountain mine in South Africa and the Lisheen mine in Ireland.
These assets are monitored together in one segment and therefore has been categorised as a separate reportable segment Zinc-International.
a Reportable Segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups reportable segments for the years ended 31 March 2011 and 2010.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 101 3.
com 102 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Segment Information continued c Geographical Segmental Analysis The Groups operations are located in India, Zambia, Australia, Namibia, South Africa and Ireland.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million India 4,924.4 3,900.5 China 2,157.0 1,838.0 Far East Others 1,354.6 633.5 UK 23.8 119.5 Africa 172.3 108.7 Europe 1,047.3 378.9 Middle East 1,068.9 834.6 Asia Others 648.7 113.8 Other 30.2 3.0 Total 11,427.2 7,930.5 The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to property, plant and equipment, analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are located: Carrying amount of Additions to property, 1 2 non-current assets plant and equipment As at As at Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Australia 15.3 14.6 1.7 4.4 India 14,278.1 12,701.4 2,309.2 3,540.2 Zambia 1,803.5 1,644.7 295.9 307.4 Namibia 578.0 628.2 Ireland 275.2 279.0 South Africa 476.7 297.5 Other 265.95 197.7 149.9 12.5 Total 17,692.7 14,558.4 3,961.4 3,864.5 1 Non-current assets does not include deferred tax assets and derivative receivables.
2 Includes acquired on acquisition of Zinc-International.
Total Revenue Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Revenue from sales of goods 11,427.2 7,930.5 Other operating income 73.9 87.8 Investment revenue 431.6 272.8 Gains losses in fair value of cash flow hedge transferred to income statement 1.6 56.8 11,931.1 8,347.9 5.
Special Items Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million 1 Asarco transaction costs 57.7 Voluntary retirement schemes 12.5 6.9 2 Acquisition related costs 32.7 3 Impairment of mining reserves 118.3 2.7 163.5 67.3 1 Asarco transaction costs include the loss of a US$50 million deposit used as security for a letter of credit which has been encashed by the counterparty.
2 Acquisition related costs include costs related to the acquisition of the Anglo Zinc assets and the proposed Cairn India acquisition.
3 The impairment of mining reserves relates to mines at Sesa Goa operated on a lease basis which have expired and have not been renewed during the year.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 103 6.
Investment Revenue Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Interest income on loans and receivables 19.7 17.2 Interest income on cash and bank balances 131.6 75.5 Change in fair value of financial assets held for trading 78.8 27.7 Profit on disposal of financial assets held for trading 35.4 47.8 Profit on sale of available-for-sale investment 5.9 7.6 Dividend income on financial assets held for trading 160.4 142.7 Expected return on defined benefit arrangements Note 32 2.1 1.8 Foreign exchange loss on cash and liquid investments 0.5 42.7 Capitalisation of interest income 1.8 4.8 431.6 272.8 7.
Finance Costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 365.7 308.5 Coupon interest on convertible bonds Note 27 138.6 96.9 Accretive interest on convertible bond 101.8 48.2 Interest on financial liability measured at fair value 21.7 Interest on other loans 97.3 52.3 Total interest cost 703.4 527.6 Unwinding of discount on provisions Note 29 7.9 4.4 Interest on defined benefit arrangements Note 32 6.7 5.9 Capitalisation of borrowing costs 183.3 301.3 534.7 236.6 8.
Other Gains and Losses Net Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Exchange gains on borrowings and capital creditors 75.9 260.2 Qualifying borrowing costs capitalised Note 17 11.0 46.4 Change in fair value of financial liabilities measured at fair value 0.4 17.5 Change in fair value of embedded derivative on convertible bonds Note 27 188.4 35.7 Loss arising on qualifying hedges and non-qualifying hedges 1.6 55.8 252.1 139.8 9.
Profit for the Year has been Stated After Charging Crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 869.0 563.0 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 4,218.3 2,679.3 Auditors remuneration for audit services 1.5 1.2 Research and development 0.7 1.4 Staff costs 446.9 464.5 Impairment of mining reserve 118.3 2.7 Net foreign exchange gains 76.2 146.9 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 104 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Auditors Remuneration The table below shows the fees payable globally to the Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP, for statutory external audit and audit related services, as well as fees paid to other accountancy firms for statutory external audit and audit related services in each of the two years ended 31 March 2011.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of Vedanta Resources plc annual accounts 0.6 0.4 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.9 0.7 Total audit fees 1.5 1.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group 1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.8 4 Tax services 0.1 0.1 2 Corporate finance services 5.4 0.7 3 Other services 0.3 0.2 Total non-audit fees 6.5 1.8 Total audit fees paid to the Companys auditors 8.0 2.9 Audit fees payable to other auditors of the Groups subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Non-audit fees payable to other auditors of the Groups subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Total fees paid to other auditors 0.2 0.2 1 Other services pursuant to legislation principally comprise further assurance services, being quarterly reviews of the Groups listed Indian subsidiaries and the half year review of the Groups results.
2 Corporate finance services principally comprise reporting accountant services relating to the raising of equity and debt and the proposed Cairn India acquisition.
These assurance-related services are ordinarily provided by the auditor.
4 Tax services principally comprise of certification and assurance services as required by Indian income tax regulations.
Employee Numbers and Costs Average Number of Persons Employed by the Group in the Year Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Class of business Number Number Aluminium 8,168 8,022 Copper 10,976 11,518 India Australia 1,414 1,370 Zambia 9,562 10,148 Zinc 7,341 6,907 India 5,494 6,907 International 1,847 Iron Ore 4,346 2,650 Energy 220 290 Other 120 210 31,171 29,597 Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Costs incurred during the year in respect of employees and Executive Directors US$ million US$ million Salaries and wages 434.7 410.7 Defined contribution pension scheme costs Note 32 22.3 17.7 Defined benefit pension scheme costs Note 32 29.3 20.5 Share-based payments charge 18.6 15.6 504.9 464.5 Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 105 12.
Tax Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Current tax: UK Corporation tax Foreign tax India 689.4 404.1 Zambia 0.1 Australia 21.3 20.3 Other 18.7 4.9 729.4 429.4 Deferred tax: Note 31 Current year movement in deferred tax 79.9 99.0 79.9 99.0 Total tax expense 649.5 330.4 Effective tax rate 24.2% 17.9% Deferred tax recycled from equity to income statement is a charge of US$10.6 million 2010: charge of US$8.5 million.
Deferred Tax in Income Statement Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Accelerated capital allowances 14.4 71.8 Unutilised tax losses 32.8 74.6 Other temporary differences 32.7 47.4 79.9 99.0 No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$3,966.1 million 2010: US$3,076.6 million.
Overview of the Indian Direct Tax Regime The following is an overview of the salient features of the Indian direct tax regime relevant to the taxation of the Group: Companies are subject to Indian income tax on a standalone basis.
There is no concept of tax consolidation or Group relief in India.
Companies are charged tax on profits of a financial year i. e. from 1 April to 31 March, in the next year.
A companys taxable profits will be subject to either regular income tax or Minimum Alternative Tax MAT.
Where MAT is greater than the tax on regular basis, MAT is levied.
Regular income tax is charged on book profits prepared under Indian GAAP adjusted in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961.
Typically the required adjustments generate significant timing differences in respect of the depreciation on fixed assets, relief for provisions and accruals, the use of tax losses brought forward and pension costs.
For the financial year 20102011 regular income tax is charged at 30% plus a surcharge of 7.5% in case income exceeds INR 10 million and education cess of 3% on tax and surcharge taking the effective tax rate to 33.22%.
For the financial year 201112 the corporate tax rate will be 32.445% i. e. 30% corporate tax increased by surcharge of 5% in case income exceeds INR 10 million and education cess of 3% on tax and surcharge.
MAT is charged on the book profits at 18% plus a surcharge of 7.5% in case book profits exceeds INR 10 million & education cess of 3% on tax and surcharge.
The effective rate of MAT is 19.93%.
However, MAT paid during a year can be set off against normal tax payable in the subsequent years in the manner provided in the statute within a period of 10 years succeeding the assessment year in which the MAT credit arose.
The MAT rate for the financial year 201112 will be 18.5% plus a surcharge of 5% in case book profits exceeds INR 10 million and education cess of 3% on tax and surcharge.
The effective rate of MAT will be 20.01%.
There are various tax exemptions or tax holidays available to companies in India subject to fulfilment of prescribed conditions.
The most important ones applicable to the Group are: Industrial undertakings tax holiday: profits of newly constructed industrial undertakings located in designated areas of India can benefit from a tax holiday.
A typical tax holiday would exempt 100% of the undertakings profits for five years, and 30% for the next five years: Power plants tax holiday: profits on newly constructed power plants can benefit from a tax holiday.
A typical holiday would exempt 100% of profits in ten consecutive years within the first 15 years of the power plants operation.
The start of the ten-year period can be chosen by a company.
This exemption is available only for units set up until 31 March 2012.
com 106 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Tax continued Profits from units designated as Export Oriented Units EOU, from where goods are exported out of India, are tax exempt up to financial year ending March 2011.
Profits from units located in Special Economic Zones SEZ are exempt from corporate tax to the extent of 100% of the profits for the first five years: 50% of the profits for the next five years: and for the next five years 50% of profits are exempt subject to creation of SEZ reserve and utilisation of SEZ reserve in the manner specified.
MAT is not leviable on profits of units located in SEZ up to financial year ending March 2011.
MAT and DDT shall be applicable on SEZ developers and SEZ units w. e. f 1 April, 2011.
The Indian tax laws are subject to a thorough review and the Government has introduced draft Direct Taxes Code DTC for public debate.
The DTC is expected to be presented again in a modified form later this year and, when enacted, is proposed to be operational from financial year 201213.
At present there is significant uncertainty as to the form of the DTC and it is not currently considered to be substantively enacted.
Tax returns submitted by companies are regularly subjected to a comprehensive review and challenge by the tax authorities.
There is appeal procedures prescribed.
Both the tax authorities and taxpayers can prefer appeals to the appellate forums save and except the first appellate authority i. e. the Commissioner of Income Tax Appeals and it is not uncommon for significant or complex matters in dispute to remain outstanding for several years before they are finally resolved either in the High Court or in the Supreme Court.
Overview of the Zambian Tax Regime The following is an overview of the salient features of the Zambian direct tax regime relevant to the taxation of the Group: The tax rate for income from mining operations is 30%.
The 100% deduction for capital expenditure incurred on mining operations which had been removed in 200809 fiscal year was re-introduced with effect from 1 April 2009.
Removal of windfall tax see below from 1 April 2009.
However, a variable profits tax will still apply where income from mining activities exceeds 8% of gross sales at a rate determined according to a prescribed formula and payable only if windfall tax is not payable.
The requirement to treat hedging activities as a separate source of income from mining operations was removed.
The period available to carry forward losses is 10 years.
KCM must file tax returns in Zambian Kwacha.
Tax losses are denominated in Kwacha but an indexation allowance applies to adjust for changes in the US dollar to Kwacha exchange rate.
A windfall tax was introduced in fiscal year 200809 which became payable when copper is sold at prices above US$5,512 per MT.
The tax is charged at rates ranging from 25% to 75% depending on the difference between the realised price and a series of pricing thresholds ranging upward from US$5,512 per MT.
KCM received a letter from the Zambian Revenue Authority ZRA during the year ended 31 March 2009 confirming an interim arrangement that the Company would only be required to pay windfall tax at a rate of 25% at any price above US$5,512 per MT.
The Company has settled the windfall tax liability with ZRA at 25% without any penal interest and penalty and agreed to pay the windfall tax liability in five progressive instalments commencing from February 2011.
Discussions about a new tax regime for mining companies are being held with Zambian government.
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to accounting profit before tax at the statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate for the year ended 31 March 2011 is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Accounting profit before tax 2,683.3 1,841.6 At Indian statutory income tax rate of 33.22% 2010: 33.99% 891.4 625.9 Unrecognised tax losses 141.4 25.4 Disallowable expenses 67.1 45.4 Non-taxable income 83.7 99.1 1 Impact relating to changes in tax rate 21.9 24.6 Tax holiday and similar exemptions 334.6 255.1 Minimum Alternative Tax 7.0 26.9 Adjustments in respect of previous years 17.2 14.4 At effective income tax rate of 24.2% 2010: 17.9% 649.5 330.4 1 Includes impact of change in effective tax rate from 33.22% to 32.445% refer to note on Overview of the Indian direct tax regime.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 107 13.
Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share EPS amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year adjusted for the effects of dilutive options and the Groups Convertible Bonds.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 770.8 602.3 Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic EPS million 272.2 274.3 Effect of dilution: Convertible bonds 34.3 46.7 Share options 2.2 3.7 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted EPS 308.7 324.7 a EPS based on profit for the year Year ended Year ended Basic EPS on the profit for the year 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent US$ million 770.8 602.3 Weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 272.2 274.3 EPS on profit for the year US cents per share 283.2 219.6 Year ended Year ended Diluted EPS on the profit for the year 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent US$ million 770.8 602.3 Adjustment in respect of convertible bonds of Vedanta US$ million 63.4 57.6 Profit for the year after dilutive adjustment US$ million 834.3 659.9 Adjusted weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 308.7 324.7 Diluted EPS on profit for the year US cents per share 270.2 203.2 During the year ended 31 March 2011, 738,248 options issued under the Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP were converted to equity shares pursuant to vesting and exercise of the options 2010: 393,292 options.
Profit for the year would be increased if holders of the convertible bonds in Vedanta exercised their right to convert their bond holdings into Vedanta equity.
The impact on profit for the year of this conversion would be the reduction in interest payable on the convertible bond net of any amount capitalised.
This has been taken into account in determining diluted EPS.
The outstanding awards under the LTIP are reflected in the diluted EPS figure through an increased number of weighted average shares.
com 108 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Earnings per share continued b EPS based on underlying profit for the year The Groups underlying profit is the profit for the year after adding back special items, other gains and losses see Note 8 and their resultant tax and non-controlling interest effects, as shown in the table below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Note US$ million US$ million Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 770.8 602.3 Special items 4 163.5 67.3 Other gains 252.1 139.9 Non-controlling interest effect of special items and other losses 33.1 16.8 Underlying profit for the year 715.3 546.5 Year ended Year ended Basic EPS on underlying profit for the year 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Underlying profit for the year US$ million 715.3 546.5 Weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 272.2 274.3 EPS on underlying profit for the year US cents per share 262.8 199.2 Year ended Year ended Diluted EPS on underlying profit for the year 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Underlying profit for the year US$ million 715.3 546.5 Adjustment in respect of convertible bonds of Vedanta US$ million 63.4 57.6 Underlying profit for the year after dilutive adjustment US$ million 778.7 604.1 Adjusted weighted average number of shares of the Company million 308.7 324.7 Diluted EPS on underlying profit for the year US cents per share 252.3 186.0 14.
Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders: Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 200910: 27.5 US cents per share 200809: 25 US cents per share 75.2 70.2 Interim dividend paid during the year: 20 US cents per share 200910: 17.5 US cents per share 54.7 47.7 129.9 117.9 Proposed for approval at AGM Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 201011: 32.5 US cents per share 200910: 27.5 US cents per share 89.2 75.2 15.
Goodwill Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Cost gross carrying amount 16.9 16.9 Accumulated impairment losses 4.7 4.7 Net carrying amount at 31 March 12.2 12.2 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The Company has undertaken an impairment review of goodwill of US$12.2 million as at 31 March 2011.
The carrying amount of goodwill was evaluated using the discounted future cash flows of the entity to which the goodwill pertains Sterlite and comparing this to the total carrying value of the Sterlite cash generating unit.
It was determined that the carrying amount of goodwill is not impaired.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 109 16.
Intangible Assets Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Exploration and evaluation acquired on acquisition 162.1 Net carrying amount at 31 March 162.1 The intangible assets relate to the Gamsberg exploration project which was acquired during the year refer Note 34.
At 31 March 2011, cumulative capitalised interest and foreign exchange gains or losses included within the table above was US$194.3 million 31 March 2010: US$254.9 million.
Plant and equipment include refineries, smelters, power plants and related facilities.
Other tangible fixed assets include office equipment and fixtures, and light vehicles.
com 110 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Financial Asset Investments Financial asset investments are required to be classified and accounted for as either available-for-sale or fair value through profit or loss.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Available-for-sale investments US$ million US$ million At 1 April 201.2 91.6 Additions disposals 46.6 4.5 Movements in fair value 55.3 111.0 Exchange difference 1.1 3.1 At 31 March 304.2 201.2 As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Analysis of financial asset investments US$ million US$ million Quoted 265.2 178.7 Unquoted 39.0 22.5 Quoted investments represent investments in equity securities that present the Group with opportunity for return through dividend income and gains in value.
These securities are held at fair value based on market prices.
Unquoted investments include mainly an investment in the equity share capital of the Andhra Pradesh Gas Power Corporation Limited which is held at cost as it is not quoted.
The increase is related to unquoted investments held by BMM and Skorpion.
Other Non-current Assets As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Deposits, advances and other receivables due after one year 24.6 18.3 24.6 18.3 20.
Inventories As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Raw materials and consumables 1,011.9 636.5 Work-in-progress 690.9 478.2 Finished goods 221.8 145.9 1,924.6 1,260.6 Inventories with a carrying amount of US$1,112.2 million 2010: US$761.2 million have been pledged as security against certain bank borrowings of the Group.
Trade and Other Receivables As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Trade receivables 761.4 206.7 Amounts due from related parties Note 36 13.6 4.4 Prepayments 93.4 55.9 Deposits with government 141.9 189.8 Other receivables 318.3 466.8 1,328.6 923.6 The credit period given to customers ranges from zero to 90 days.
Other receivables primarily includes excise balances, customs balances, deposits with governments, advances to suppliers, claims receivables and other receivables.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 111 22.
Liquid Investments As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Bank deposits 1,929.0 1,301.4 Other investments 4,936.4 5,548.0 6,865.4 6,849.4 Other investments include mutual fund investments and are fair valued through the income statement.
Bank deposits are made for periods of between three months and one year depending on the cash requirements of the companies within the Group and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
These do not qualify for recognition as cash and cash equivalents due to their maturity period and risk of change in value of the investments.
Cash and Cash Equivalents As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Cash at bank and in hand 238.5 74.7 1 Short-term deposits 673.1 315.3 911.6 390.0 1 Includes US$96.3 million 2010: US$2.5 million of cash held in short-term deposit accounts that is restricted in use as it relates to unclaimed deposits, dividends, interest on debentures, share application money, closure costs and future redundancy payments.
Short-term deposits are made for periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Borrowings As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Bank loans 5,654.9 3,597.4 Bonds 1,244.7 1,243.7 Other loans 581.4 554.7 Total 7,481.0 5,395.8 Borrowings are repayable as: Within one year shown as current liabilities 3,045.1 1,012.6 In the second year 1,914.2 759.7 In two to five years 1,324.4 2,669.9 After five years 1,197.3 953.6 Total borrowings 7,481.0 5,395.8 Less: payable within one year 3,045.1 1,012.6 Mediumand long-term borrowings 4,435.9 4,383.2 At 31 March 2011, the Group had available US$3,407.6 million 2010: US$3,204.8 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The Group also had secured US$6,000.0 million acquisition facility to fund the proposed Cairn India acquisition in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The principal loans held by Group companies at 31 March 2011 were as follows: BALCO Non-convertible Debentures BALCO issued non-convertible debentures of US$112.0 million to the Life Insurance Corporation of India @12.25% per annum.
The debentures are secured and have the pari passu charge on the movable and immovable properties, present and future tangible or intangible assets other than current assets of BALCO to the extent of 1.33 times of the issued amount.
The above loan is repayable in three yearly equal instalments starting November 2013.
Project Buyers Credit As at 31 March 2011, BALCO has extended credit terms relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment for its project of US$370.7 million at an average rate of LIBOR plus 247 basis points.
com 112 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Borrowings continued VAL Rupee Term Loan VAL has taken an Indian rupee term loan of US$224.0 million from ICICI Bank at an interest rate of 10.5%.
Repayment is in eight equal quarterly instalments starting from July 2011.
VAL has taken an Indian rupee term loan of US$168.0 million from Yes Bank at an interest rate of 11.5%.
The loan is secured and has a subservient charge on present and future movable fixed asset already created.
Indian rupee term loan of US$168.0 million from Bank of Baroda at an interest rate of 10.5% has been taken which is secured by first charge by way of hypothecation of all present and future movables fixed assets for the project including but not limited to plant and machinery spares, tools and accessories, base stock funded by the facility of the project.
The loan is payable on December 2011.
VAL has obtained term loan of US$1,119.8 million from State Bank of India at an interest rate of 7.5%.
The loan is secured by the first pari passu charge on the moveable plant and machinery so as to provide fixed assets coverage ratio of 1.30.
The loan is repayable in April 2011.
Non-convertible Debentures VAL has issued non-convertible debentures of US$89.6 million to the Life Insurance Corporation of India at a rate of 11.50% per annum.
The debentures are secured and have the first pari passu charge over the identified assets including land and building of the issuer to the extent of 1.33 times of the issued amount.
Debentures are repayable in three yearly equal instalments starting October 2013.
External Commercial Borrowing VAL has obtained external commercial borrowing loan from ICICI Bank, Singapore of US$100.0 million at an interest rate of LIBOR plus 240 basis points secured by negative lien undertaking on the assets of the Jharsuguda project of the Company, both present and future, excluding assets already charged in favour of ICICI Bank and other lenders.
The repayment period is from February 2012 to August 2014.
Project Buyers Credit As at 31 March 2011, VAL had extended credit terms relating to purchases of property, plant and equipment for its projects amounting to US$846.6 million.
These loans bear average interest at LIBOR plus 243 basis points.
These are secured by all of the fixed assets of VAL, immovable or movable, present and future, on a pari passu basis with other term lenders and with priority over other creditors.
Sterlite Energy Project Buyers Credit As at 31 March 2011, SEL has extended credit terms relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment for its project of US$228.2 million at an average rate of LIBOR plus 199 basis points.
Sterlite Industries In February 2011 Sterlite Industries raised US$291.1 million through commercial papers at an interest rate of 9.73% and repayable in June 2011.
The amount outstanding as at March 2011 is US$261.7 million.
Talwandi Sabo Talwandi Sabo has issued non-convertible debentures of US$335.9 million to ICICI Bank at a rate of 9.8% per annum.
First tranche of US$167.9 million was issued in December 2010 and second tranche of the balance amount was issued in January 2011.
The debentures are secured by first pari passu charge on the assets of the Company both present and future, with a minimum asset cover of 1.25 times during the lifetime of the NCDs including the Debt Service Reserve Account and unconditional and irrevocable corporate guarantee by Sterlite Industries.
Debentures have a tenure of 13 years repayable in 12 equal instalments after 10 years of allotment.
KCM In 2009 KCM has obtained a loan of US$100 million from the Development Bank of Southern Africa five year term and US$191.7 million from Standard Chartered Bank four year term.
The interest rate is 2.8% over three month LIBOR and 5.5% over three month LIBOR respectively.
Both the loans are repayable in 12 quarterly instalments starting from the third and second year, respectively.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 113 24.
Borrowings continued Vedanta Resources plc Long-term Bonds In July 2008, Vedanta issued US$500.0 million, 8.75% bonds due January 2014, and US$750.0 million, 9.50% bonds due July 2018 in the United States of America USA pursuant to Rule 144A of US Securities Act of 1933 Securities Act and outside of the USA in Compliance with Regulation S pursuant to the Securities Act.
The bonds are unsecured and are currently rated BB by Standard & Poors, Ba2 by Moodys and BB by Fitch Ratings Limited.
Syndicated Bridge Term Loan In April 2008, the Group refinanced the short-term syndicated bridge loan facility of US$1,100.0 million taken out to acquire Sesa Goa.
The new facility is for US$1,000 million, fully drawn down at 31 March 2011, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 296 basis points.
US$250.0 million is repayable in April 2012 and the remaining US$750 million is repayable in January 2013.
The facility has been guaranteed by Vedanta and is subject to a pledge of the Groups shares in Sesa Goa Limited through its holding in Richter and Westglobe Limited.
Term Loan In January 2010, the Group obtained a loan from Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ for US$373 million repayable in July 2011 and bears interest at USD LIBOR plus 425 basis points.
In December 2010, the Group obtained a loan from ICICI Bank for US$180 million repayable US$90 million in December 2014 and the balance US$90 million in December 2015 and bears interest rate three month GBP LIBOR plus 385 basis points.
In January 2011, the Group obtained a loan from ICICI Bank for US$150 million repayable US$75 million in January 2016 and the balance US$75 million in January 2017 and bears interest rate three month USD LIBOR plus 389 basis points.
Non-equity Non-controlling Interests As at 31 March 2011, non-equity non-controlling interests remain of US$11.9 million, being deferred shares in KCM held by ZCM.
The deferred shares have no voting rights or rights to KCMs dividends, but are entitled on a winding up to a return of up to US$0.99 per share once all of KCMs ordinary shares have received a distribution equal to their par value and any share premium created on their issue and which remains distributable to them.
The deferred shares are held at historic cost, being the fair value attributed to them at the time of initial acquisition of KCM in the year ended 31 March 2005.
They are classified as non-current liabilities as they are repayable only on the winding up of the Company, for an amount different than the pro rata share of net assets upon liquidation.
The shares have been valued at US$0.99 per share, which is the maximum amount payable to the deferred shareholders.
These deferred shares have not been discounted as the effect would not be material.
Movement in Net Debt Debt due within one year Debt due after one year Cash and cash Liquid Debt carrying Debt-related Debt carrying Debt-related Total 2 2 US$ million equivalents investments value derivatives value derivatives net debt At 1 April 2009 380.5 4,532.1 1,298.5 8.4 3,816.4 6.9 200.8 Cash flow 258.8 1,663.4 360.6 2,859.0 576.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries 12.4 12.4 3 Other non-cash changes 27.6 25.0 9.3 351.7 5.1 313.5 Foreign exchange differences 249.3 626.3 87.3 133.9 155.8 At 1 April 2010 390.0 6,849.4 1,012.6 0.9 7,161.0 12.1 947.2 Cash flow 108.2 178.4 1,863.2 161.6 2,311.4 Net cash flows arising on acquisition of a subsidiary 388.6 37.3 29.4 396.5 3 Other non-cash changes 78.8 96.1 0.9 635.6 17.3 636.5 Foreign exchange differences 241.2 78.3 43.8 20.4 255.3 At 31 March 2011 911.6 6,865.4 3,045.1 6,707.4 5.2 1,970.3 1 Net debt cash being total debt after fair value adjustments under IAS 32 and 39 as reduced by cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments.
2 Debt related derivatives exclude derivative financial assets and liabilities relating to commodity contracts and forward foreign currency contracts.
3 Other non-cash changes comprises of US$462.4 million 2010: US$326.7 million of project buyers credit obtained from banks, for which there is no cash movement as it represents the refinancing of amounts previously owed to suppliers and excluded from debt.
It also includes US$59.1 million 2010 US$27.6 million of fair value movement in investments.
A movement of US$18.2 million 2010: US$14.4 million which pertains to fair value of debt related derivatives is also included in other non-cash changes.
5 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 114 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
Trade and Other Payables a Current Trade Payables As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Trade payables 1,969.0 1,390.1 Bills of exchange payable 816.6 771.7 Accruals and deferred income 272.5 72.7 Other trade payables 349.4 324.7 3,407.5 2,559.2 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 60 to 90 day terms.
Bills of exchange are interest-bearing and are normally payable within 180 days.
The fair value of trade and other payables is not materially different from the carrying values presented.
Bills of exchange payable comprise of credit availed from financial institutions for direct payment to suppliers for raw materials purchased.
The arrangements are interest-bearing and are normally payable within 180 days, b Non-current Trade Payables As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Other trade payables 148.1 306.4 148.1 306.4 Other trade payables primarily comprise the amounts withheld as retentions, payable to suppliers of capital projects after satisfactory completion of contractual commissioning period, which are generally payable after a year.
Convertible Bonds Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million A. VRJL 968.2 931.3 B. VRJL II 651.8 881.1 C. FCCB SIIL & Sesa 651.5 965.4 2,271.5 2,777.8 A. Vedanta Resource Jersey Limited VRJL issued 5.5% US$1,250 million guaranteed convertible bonds on 13 July 2009.
The bonds are first convertible into exchangeable redeemable preference shares to be issued by VRJL, which will then be automatically exchanged for ordinary shares of Vedanta Resources plc.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time from 24 August 2009 to 6 July 2016.
The loan notes are convertible at US$36.48 per share at an average rate of GBP: USD of 1.6386.
If the notes have not been converted, they will be redeemed at the option of the Company at any time on or after 28 July 2012 subject to certain conditions, or be redeemed at the option of the bondholders on or after 13 July 2014.
The net proceeds of the convertible issue have been split between the liability element and equity component, representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Company, as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Opening liability 931.3 1,234.8 Equity component 327.9 Imputed liability on issue date 906.9 Unwinding of effective interest rate 105.8 73.7 Coupon interest paid accrued 68.9 49.3 Closing liability 968.2 931.3 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 11.4% March 2010: 11.2%.
The fair value of the convertible bond as at 31 March 2011 is US$1,304.9 million.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 115 27.
Convertible Bonds continued B. Vedanta Resource Jersey II Limited VRJL II issued 4.0% US$883 million guaranteed convertible bonds on 30 March 2010.
The bonds are first convertible into exchangeable redeemable preference shares to be issued by VRJL-II, which will then be automatically exchanged for ordinary shares of Vedanta Resources plc.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time from 10 May 2010 to 23 March 2017.
The loan notes are convertible at US$51.9251 per share at an average rate of USD: GBP of 1.4965.
If the notes have not been converted, they will be redeemed at the option of the Company at any time on or after 14 April 2013 subject to certain conditions, or be redeemed at the option of the bondholders on or after 29 April 2013 to 30 March 2015.
At the inception the net proceeds of the convertible issue was split between the liability element and a derivative component, representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Company.
The latter was not been recorded within equity due to the existence of partial cash settlement terms within the bond which prevent the adoption of compound financial instrument accounting.
During the period US$44.8 million was debited to the value of the derivative liability with a corresponding credit taken to the income statement.
This represents the movement in the fair value of the embedded option to convert to equity from the 1 April 2010 to 28 July 2010, the date of removal of cash settlement option.
US$211.6 million calculated as the fair value of the conversion option was reclassified to the convertible bond reserve at that date representing the value attributable to the right to convert the liability into equity of the Company.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Opening liability 881.1 875.8 Equity component 211.6 Effective interest cost 62.4 0.2 Coupon interest paid accrued 35.3 0.1 Decrease Increase in fair value of derivative component 44.8 5.2 Closing liability 651.8 881.1 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.3% 2010: 6.93%.
The fair value of the convertible bond as at 31 March 2011 was US$907.6 million.
C. Sterlite Industries India Limited SIIL issued 4% US$500 million convertible senior notes denominated in US dollars on 29 October 2009 which are due on 30 October 2014.
The bonds are convertible into American Depository Share ADS to be issued by SIIL.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time before 29 October 2014 at a conversion ratio of 42.8688 for every US$1,000 of principal which is equal to a conversion price of USD 23.33 per ADS.
SIIL has the option subject to the terms of the bond to redeem the convertible bond at any time after 4 November 2012.
Sesa Goa Limited Sesa issued 5% US$500 million convertible bonds denominated in US dollars on 30 October 2009 and due 31 October 2014.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of Sesa.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time after 10 December 2009 and before 24 October 2014 at a conversion ratio of 13837.6384 for every US$100,000 principal.
Sesa has the option subject to certain conditions to redeem the convertible bond at any time after 30 October 2012.
As the functional currency of SIIL and Sesa is INR, the conversion of the convertible bonds which are denominated in US dollars would not result in the settlement and exchange of a fixed amount of cash in INR terms, for a fixed number of SIILs and Sesas shares respectively.
Accordingly, the convertible bond must be separated into two component elements: a derivative component consisting of the conversion option carried at fair value and a liability component consisting of the debt element of the bonds.
Further details of the accounting for such instruments are provided in the Group accounting policies Note 2a.
The following table shows the movements in the SIIL and Sesa bonds during the year on an aggregated basis: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Opening liability 965.4 991.8 Effective interest cost 71.6 39.4 Coupon interest paid 34.4 19.3 Conversion of bonds into equity of subsidiaries 207.7 76.0 Increase decrease in fair value of derivative component 143.4 29.5 Closing liability including derivative component of US$126.2 million, March 2010: US$386.8 million 651.5 965.4 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 116 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Convertible Bonds continued The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.9% March 2010: 12.7% for SIIL convertible notes and 10.1% March 2010: 23.4% for Sesa convertible notes.
The fair value of the convertible bonds as at 31 March 2011 was US$751.6 million March 2010: US$1,114 million.
Financial Instruments The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments, and their carrying amounts, are set out below: As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Financial assets At fair value through profit or loss Held for trading 6,865.4 6,849.4 Other financial assets derivatives 140.3 54.1 Cash and cash equivalents 911.6 390.0 Loan and receivables Trade and other receivables 1,328.6 867.7 Other non-current assets 24.6 18.3 Available-for-sale investments Financial asset investments held at fair value 265.2 178.7 Financial asset investments held at cost 39.0 22.4 Total 9,574.7 8,380.6 Financial liabilities At fair value through profit or loss Other financial liabilities derivatives 103.5 83.2 Designated into fair value hedge 1 Borrowings 126.2 643.0 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables 3,555.6 2,865.6 2 Borrowings 9,626.3 7,530.6 Total 13,411.6 11,122.4 1 Includes embedded derivative liability portion of convertible bonds US$126.2 million 2010: US$643.1 million 2 Includes amortised cost liability portion of convertible bonds US$2,145.3 million 2010: US$2,134.6 million IFRS 7 requires additional information regarding the methodologies employed to measure the fair value of financial instruments which are recognised or disclosed in the accounts.
These methodologies are categorised per the standard as: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The below table summarises the categories of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value: As at 31 March 2011 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Financial assets At fair value through profit or loss Held for trading 6,865.4 Other financial assets derivatives 140.3 Available-for-sale investments Financial asset investments held at fair value 265.2 Total 7,130.6 140.3 Financial liabilities At fair value through profit or loss Other financial liabilities derivatives 103.5 Designated into fair value hedge Borrowings 126.2 Total 229.7 Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 117 28.
Financial Instruments continued There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
No financial assets or liabilities were measured by Level 3 Fair Value Measurement.
The fair value of borrowings is US$10,011.2 million 2010: US$8,379.4 million.
For all other financial instruments, the carrying amount is either the fair value, or approximates the fair value.
The fair value of financial asset investments represents the market value of the quoted investments and other traded instruments.
For other financial assets the carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
The fair value of financial liabilities is the market value of the traded instruments, where applicable.
Otherwise fair value is calculated using a discounted cash flow model with market assumptions, unless the carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
The fair value of the embedded derivative liability of convertible bond has been calculated using the binomial and Black-Scholes models with market assumptions.
Derivatives Instruments and Risk Management The Groups businesses are subject to several risks and uncertainties including financial risks.
The Groups documented risk management policies act as an effective tool in mitigating the various financial risks to which the businesses are exposed to in the course of their daily operations.
The risk management policies cover areas such as liquidity risk, commodity price risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and capital management.
Risks are identified through a formal risk management programme with active involvement of senior management personnel and business managers at both the corporate and individual subsidiary level.
Each operating subsidiary in the Group has in place risk management processes which are in line with the Groups policy.
Each significant risk has a designated owner within the Group at an appropriate senior level.
The potential financial impact of the risk and its likelihood of a negative outcome are regularly updated.
The risk management process is coordinated by the Management Assurance function and is regularly reviewed by the Groups Audit Committee.
Key business decisions are discussed at the monthly meetings of the Executive Committee.
The overall internal control environment and risk management programme including financial risk management is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Treasury Management Treasury management focuses on capital protection, liquidity maintenance and yield maximisation.
The treasury policies are approved by the Board and adherence to these policies is strictly monitored at the Executive Committee meetings.
Day-to-day treasury operations of the subsidiary companies are managed by their respective finance teams within the framework of the overall Group treasury policies.
Long-term fund raising including strategic treasury initiatives are handled by a central team while short-term funding for routine working capital requirements is delegated to subsidiary companies.
A monthly reporting system exists to inform senior management of investments, debt, currency, commodity and interest rate derivatives.
The Group has a strong system of internal control which enables effective monitoring of adherence to Group policies.
The internal control measures are effectively supplemented by regular internal audits.
The Group uses derivative instruments as part of its management of exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Group does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
The Group does not enter into complex derivative transactions to manage the treasury and commodity risks.
Both treasury and commodities derivative transactions are normally in the form of forward contracts and interest rate and currency swaps and these are subject to the Group guidelines and policies.
Interest rate swaps are taken to achieve a balance between fixed and floating rates as described below under Interest risk and currency swaps are taken primarily to convert the Groups exposure to non-US dollar currencies to US dollar currencies.
Commodity Risk The Group is exposed to the movement of base metal commodity prices on the LME.
Any decline in the prices of the base metals that the Group produces and sells will have an immediate and direct impact on the profitability of the businesses.
As a general policy, the Group aims to sell the products at prevailing market prices.
As much as possible, the Group tries to mitigate price risk through favourable contractual terms.
The Group undertakes hedging activity in commodities to a limited degree.
Hedging is used primarily as a risk management tool and, in some cases, to secure future cash flows in cases of high volatility by entering into forward contracts or similar instruments.
The hedging activities are subject to strict limits set out by the Board and to a strictly defined internal control and monitoring mechanism.
Decisions relating to hedging of commodities are taken at the Executive Committee level and with clearly laid down guidelines for their implementation by the subsidiaries.
Whilst the Group aims to achieve average LME prices for a month or a year, average realised prices may not necessarily reflect the LME price movements because of a variety of reasons such as uneven sales during the year and timing of shipments.
com 118 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Financial Instruments continued Copper The Groups custom smelting copper operation at Tuticorin is benefited by a natural hedge except to the extent of a possible mismatch in quotational periods between the purchase of concentrate and the sale of finished copper.
The Groups policy on custom smelting is to generate margins from TC RCs, minimising conversion cost, generating a premium over LME on sale of finished copper, sale of by-products and from achieving import parity on domestic sales.
Hence, mismatches in quotational periods are actively managed to ensure that the gains or losses are minimised.
The Group hedges this variability of LME prices and tries to make the LME price a pass-through cost between purchases of copper concentrate and sales of finished products, both of which are linked to the LME price.
The Company also benefits from the difference between the amounts paid for quantities of copper content received and recovered in the manufacturing process, also known as free copper.
The Group hedges on a selective basis the free copper and revenue from variable margins on the purchases of copper concentrates by entering into future contracts.
The Groups Australian mines in Tasmania supply approximately 7% to 8% of the requirement of the custom copper smelter at Tuticorin.
Hence, TC RCs are a major source of income for the Indian copper smelting operations.
Fluctuations in TC RCs are influenced by factors including demand and supply conditions prevailing in the market for mine output.
The Groups copper business has a strategy of securing a majority of its concentrate feed requirement under long-term contracts with mines.
KCM is largely an integrated copper producer and hence the strategy to protect the Company from price fluctuations in copper is to focus on controlling KCMs costs.
For the mining assets in Australia and Zambia, part of the production may be hedged to secure cash flows on a selective basis.
Aluminium The requirement of the primary raw material, alumina, is partly met from own sources and the rest is purchased primarily on negotiated price terms.
Sales prices are linked to the LME prices.
At present the Group does not hedge any aluminium production.
Zinc and Lead The sales prices are linked to the LME prices.
The Group has some long-term volume contracts with some customers where the prices are linked to prevailing LME prices at the time of shipment.
The Group hedged part of the exports from India through forward contracts or other instruments.
Iron Ore The Group sells some portion of its iron ore production on quarterly price contracts and the balance on the basis of prevailing market prices.
Provisionally Priced Financial Instruments On 31 March 2011, the value of net financial liabilities linked to commodities excluding derivatives accounted for on provisional prices was a liability of US$411.8 million 2010: liability of US$274.8 million.
These instruments are subject to price movements at the time of final settlement and the final price of these instruments will be determined in the financial year beginning 1 April 2011.
Set out below is the impact of 10% increase in LME prices on profit for the year and total equity as a result of changes in value of the Groups commodity financial instruments as at 31 March 2011: Effect Effect on on profit of a total equity of a Closing LME 10% increase in 10% increase in as at the LME the LME 31 March 2011 31 March 2011 31 March 2011 Commodity Price Sensitivity US$ US$ million US$ million Copper 9,400 4.6 4.6 Zinc 2,319 4.5 4.5 Lead 2,720 3.4 3.4 Effect Effect on on profit of a total equity of a Closing LME 10% increase in 10% increase in as at the LME the LME 31 March 2010 31 March 2010 31 March 2010 Commodity Price Sensitivity US$ US$ million US$ million Copper 7,830 6.1 6.1 Zinc 2,360 0.3 0.3 Lead 2,120 0.1 0.1 Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 119 28.
Financial Instruments continued The above sensitivities are based on volumes, costs, exchange rates and other variables and provide the estimated impact of a change in LME prices on profit and equity assuming that all other variables remain constant.
Further, the impact of a 10% increase in closing copper LME for provisionally priced copper concentrate purchase at Sterlite custom smelting operations is US$37.3 million 2010: US$25.5 million, which is pass through in nature and as such will not have any impact on the profitability.
Financial Risk and Sensitivities The Groups Board approved financial risk policies comprise liquidity, currency, interest rate and counterparty risk.
The Group does not engage in speculative treasury activity but seeks to manage risk and optimise interest and commodity pricing through proven financial instruments.
a Liquidity The Group requires funds both for short-term operational needs as well as for long-term investment programmes mainly in growth projects.
The Group generates sufficient cash flows from the current operations which together with the available cash and cash equivalents and liquid financial asset investments provide liquidity both in the short-term as well as in the long-term.
Anticipated future cash flows and undrawn committed facilities of US$9,407.6 million including US$6,000 million for Cairn Acquisition, together with cash and liquid investments of US$7,777.0 million as at 31 March 2011, are expected to be sufficient to meet the ongoing capital investment programme and liquidity requirement of the Group in the near future.
The Group has a strong balance sheet that gives sufficient headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
The Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys & Fitch Ratings are BB and Ba1 respectively 2010: BB and Ba1 respectively.
These ratings support the necessary financial leverage and access to debt or equity markets at competitive terms.
The Group generally maintains a healthy net debt-equity ratio and retains flexibility in the financing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises.
The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date is given in the table below.
The figures reflect the contractual undiscounted cash obligation of the Group excludes interest : At 31 March 2011 in US$ million Payment due by period 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total Trade and other payables 3,407.5 148.1 3,555.6 Bank and other borrowings 3,045.1 1,914.2 1,324.4 1,197.3 7,481.0 Convertible bonds 651.5 1,620.0 2,271.5 Derivative liabilities 9.3 94.2 103.5 Total 6,461.9 2,062.3 2,070.1 2,817.3 13,411.6 At 31 March 2010 in US$ million Payment due by period 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total Trade and other payables 2,559.2 306.4 2,865.6 Bank and other borrowings 1,012.6 759.7 2,669.9 953.6 5,395.8 Convertible bonds 924.5 2,133.0 3,057.5 Derivative liabilities 38.5 44.7 83.2 Total 3,610.3 1,066.1 3,639.1 3,086.6 11,402.1 At 31 March 2011, the Group had access to funding facilities of US$19,160.1 million of which US$9,407.6 million was not yet drawn, as set out below.
Total facility Drawn Undrawn Funding facilities US$ million US$ million US$ million 1 Less than 1 year 10,946.8 3,045.1 7,901.7 12 years 3,336.3 1,914.2 1,422.1 25 years and above 4,877.0 4,793.2 83.8 Total 19,160.1 9,752.5 9,407.6 1 Includes US$6,000.0 million, which the Group has secured as the acquisition facility for the proposed Cairn India acquisition in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
This is repayable between one to five years in different tranches.
com 120 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Financial Instruments continued At 31 March 2010, the Group had access to funding facilities of US$11,378.4 million of which US$3,204.8 million was not yet drawn, as set out below.
Total facility Drawn Undrawn Funding facilities US$ million US$ million US$ million Less than 1 year 2,843.9 996.2 1,847.7 12 years 516.9 516.9 25 years and above 8,017.6 6,660.5 1,357.1 Total 11,378.4 8,173.6 3,204.8 b Foreign Currency The Groups presentation currency is the US dollar.
The majority of the assets are located in India and the Indian Rupee is the functional currency for the Indian operating subsidiaries.
Foreign currency exposures are managed through the Group-wide hedging policy, which is reviewed periodically to ensure that the risk from fluctuating currency exchange rates is appropriately managed.
Natural hedges available in the business are identified at each entity level and hedges are placed only for the net exposure.
Short-term net exposures are hedged progressively based on their maturity.
A more conservative approach has been adopted for project expenditures to avoid budget overruns.
Longer term exposures are unhedged.
Stop losses and take profit triggers are implemented to protect entities from adverse market movements at the same time enabling them to encash in favourable market opportunities.
Vedanta has hedged some of its US dollar borrowings into other foreign currency borrowings by entering into cross-currency swaps.
The carrying amount of the Groups financial assets and liabilities in different currencies are as follows: At 31 March 2011 At 31 March 2010 Financial Financial US$ million Financial assets liabilities Financial assets liabilities USD 884.6 8,849.2 1,618.9 9,314.0 INR 7,959.4 4,260.9 6,508.4 1,690.6 Kwacha 44.4 27.5 59.2 22.8 JPY 93.5 8.7 1.0 AUD 5.6 23.1 15.7 14.3 CAD 249.2 169.0 Euro 134.9 116.4 0.9 71.0 ZAR 62.3 63.5 NAD 129.3 45.7 Others 11.5 16.6 8.5 10.7 Total 9,574.7 13,411.6 8,380.6 11,122.4 The Groups exposure to foreign currency arises where a Group company holds monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency different to the functional currency of that entity with US dollar being the major foreign currency exposure of the Groups main operating subsidiaries.
Set out below is the impact of a 10% change in the US dollar on profit and equity arising as a result of the revaluation of the Groups foreign currency financial instruments: 31 March 2011 Effect of 10% Effect of 10% strengthening strengthening Closing of US dollar on of US dollar on US$ million exchange rate net earnings total equity INR 44.65 167.7 190.3 AUD 0.9680 0.9 0.9 Kwacha 4,770 1.5 1.5 31 March 2010 Effect of 10% Effect of 10% strengthening strengthening Closing of US dollar on of US dollar US$ million exchange rate net earnings on total equity INR 45.14 131.5 193.9 AUD 1.0922 1.4 1.4 Kwacha 4,820 3.3 3.3 The sensitivities are based on financial assets and liabilities held at 31 March 2011 where balances are not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiaries.
The sensitivities do not take into account the Groups sales and costs and the results of the sensitivities could change due to other factors such as changes in the value of financial assets and liabilities as a result of non-foreign exchange influenced factors.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 121 28.
Financial Instruments continued c Interest Risk At 31 March 2011, the Groups net debt of US$1,970.3 million 2010: US$947.1 million net debt comprises of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments of US$7,777.0 million 2010: US$7,239.4 million offset by debt of US$9,752.5 million 2010: US$8,186.5 million.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on short-term and long-term floating rate instruments and on the refinancing of fixed rate debt.
The Groups policy is to maintain a balance of fixed and floating interest rate borrowings and the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt is determined by current market interest rates.
As at 31 March 2011, 59.3% 2010: 57.7% of the total debt was at a fixed rate and the balance was at a floating rate.
The floating rate debt is largely linked to US dollar LIBOR.
The Group also aims to minimise its average interest rates on borrowings by opting for a higher proportion of long-term debt to fund growth projects.
The Group invests cash and liquid investments in short-term deposits and debt mutual funds, some of which generate a tax-free return, to achieve the Groups goal of maintaining liquidity, carrying manageable risk and achieving satisfactory returns.
Floating rate financial assets are largely mutual fund investments which have debt securities as underlying asset.
The returns from these financial assets are linked to market interest rate movements: however the counterparty invests in the agreed securities with known maturity tenure and return and hence has manageable risk.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 March 2011 At 31 March 2010 Non-interest Non-interest Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Floating rate Fixed rate Equity bearing financial financial Equity financial financial assets financial assets Investments financial assets assets assets Investments assets Financial assets 5,091.9 2,362.4 278.2 1,701.9 5,783.7 1,235.2 201.2 1,106.4 Derivative assets 140.3 54.1 Total financial assets 5,091.9 2,362.4 278.2 1,842.2 5,783.7 1,235.2 201.2 1,160.5 The exposure of the Groups financial liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 March 2011 At 31 March 2010 Non-interest Non-interest Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Floating rate Fixed rate bearing financial financial financial financial financial financial US$ million liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities Financial liabilities 3,820.6 6,363.4 3,124.1 4,339.6 4,890.2 1,809.4 Derivative liabilities 103.5 83.2 Total financial liabilities 3,820.6 6,363.4 3,227.6 4,339.6 4,890.2 1,892.6 The weighted average interest rate on the fixed rate financial liabilities is 7.4% 2010: 6.7% and the weighted average period for which the rate is fixed is 3.4 years 2010: 5.6 years.
Considering the net debt position as at 31 March 2011 and the investment in bank deposits and debt mutual funds, any increase in interest rates would result in a net loss and any decrease in interest rates would result in a net gain.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
The below table illustrates the impact of a 0.5% to 2.0% decrease in interest rate of borrowings on profit and equity and represents managements assessment of the possible change in interest rates.
At 31 March 2011 Effect on net Effect on total earnings equity in US$ million in US$ million US dollar US dollar Decrease in interest rates interest rate interest rate 0.5% 12.7 12.7 1.0% 25.3 25.3 2.0% 50.7 50.7 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 122 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Financial Instruments continued At 31 March 2010 Effect on Effect on net earnings total equity in US$ million in US$ million US dollar US dollar Decrease in interest rates interest rate interest rate 0.5% 10.9 10.9 1.0% 21.7 21.7 2.0% 43.4 43.4 d Credit Risk The Group is exposed to credit risk from trade receivables, liquid investments and other financial instruments.
The Group has clearly defined policies to mitigate counterparty risks.
Cash and liquid investments are held primarily in mutual funds and banks with good credit ratings.
Defined limits are in place for exposure to individual counterparties in case of mutual fund houses and banks.
The large majority of receivables due from third parties are secured.
Moreover, given the diverse nature of our businesses trade receivables are spread over a number of customers with no significant concentration of credit risk.
No single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups net sales or for any of the Groups primary businesses during the year ended 31 March 2011 and in the previous year.
The history of trade receivables shows a negligible provision for bad and doubtful debts.
Therefore, the Group does not expect any material risk on account of non-performance by any of our counterparties.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 March 2011 is US$9,574.7 million 2010: US$8,380.6 million.
Of the year end trade and other receivable balance the following were past due but not impaired as at 31 March 2011.
US$ million 2011 2010 Less than 1 month 14.2 200.2 Between 13 months 6.1 68.2 Between 312 months 8.7 31.3 Greater than 12 months 17.0 8.9 Total 46.0 308.6 Derivative Financial Instruments The fair value of all derivatives is separately recorded on the balance sheet within other financial assets derivatives and other financial liabilities derivatives, current and non-current.
In addition, the derivative component of certain convertible bonds is shown as part of the overall convertible bond liability see Note 27.
Derivatives that are designated as hedges are classified as current or non-current depending on the maturity of the derivative.
Embedded Derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other contracts are treated as separate derivative contracts, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts.
Cash Flow Hedges The Group also enters into forward exchange and commodity price contracts for hedging highly probable forecast transactions and accounts for them as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses are transferred to the income statement.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 123 28.
Financial Instruments continued The fair value of the Groups open derivative positions at 31 March 2011, recorded within other financial assets derivatives and other financial liabilities derivatives is as follows: As at 31 March 2011 As at 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Liability Asset Liability Asset Current Cash flow hedges Commodity contracts Forward foreign currency contracts 0.2 8.1 10.2 3.9 Interest rate swap floating to fixed Fair value hedges Commodity contracts 3.3 0.2 0.8 Forward foreign currency contracts 0.3 6.3 3.9 Interest rate swap Others foreign currency swap 12.1 Non-qualifying hedges Commodity contracts 5.0 3.1 1.0 2.6 Forward foreign currency contracts 0.8 29.2 8.1 Total 9.3 40.9 38.5 10.4 Non-current Fair value hedges Forward foreign currency contracts Interest rate swap Others foreign currency swap 94.2 99.4 44.7 43.7 Total 94.2 99.4 44.7 43.7 Grand total 103.5 140.3 83.2 54.1 The majority of cash flow hedges taken out by the Group during the year comprise forward foreign currency contracts for firm future commitments.
Non-qualifying Hedges The majority of these derivatives comprise copper sale and purchase contracts at Sterlite custom smelting operations which are economic hedges but which do not fulfil the requirements for hedge accounting of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Fair Value Hedges The fair value hedges relate to forward covers taken to hedge currency exposure on purchase of raw materials and capital imports.
Hedging Reserves Reconciliation Hedging Non-controlling 1 reserves interests Total US$ million US$ million US$ million At 1 April 2009 39.6 1.3 40.9 Amount recognised directly in equity 40.7 6.1 46.8 Amount charged to income statement 28.4 9.2 37.6 Exchange difference 1.7 0.9 0.8 At 1 April 2010 27.8 14.9 42.7 Amount recognised directly in equity 7.7 3.9 3.7 Amount charged to income statement 2.3 3.3 1.1 Exchange difference 0.4 0.0 0.4 At 31 March 2011 38.2 7.7 45.7 1 Cash flow hedges attributable to non-controlling interests.
com 124 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Provisions Restoration, rehabilitation KCM and Copper Price environmental Participation Other Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million At 1 April 2009 37.0 115.7 19.7 172.4 Credited charged to income statement 14.9 13.7 4.9 6.1 Unwinding of discount 0.2 3.9 0.2 4.3 Cash paid 0.6 7.9 0.5 6.8 Exchange differences 2.4 2.3 4.7 At 1 April 2010 25.3 125.4 17.8 168.5 Acquisition 121.2 19.3 140.5 Credited charged to income statement 2.2 0.9 1.1 2.4 Unwinding of discount 0.7 6.6 0.7 7.9 Cash paid 0.1 3.9 4.0 Exchange differences 0.9 0.9 At 31 March 2011 150.4 131.1 42.8 324.3 Current 2011 22.8 22.8 Non-current 2011 150.4 131.1 20.0 301.5 150.4 131.1 42.8 324.3 Current 2010 0.9 0.9 Non-current 2010 25.3 125.4 16.9 167.6 25.3 125.4 17.8 168.5 Restoration, Rehabilitation and Environmental The provisions for restoration, rehabilitation and environmental liabilities represent the Directors best estimate of the costs which will be incurred in the future to meet the Groups obligations under existing Indian, Australian, Zambian, Namibian, South African and Irish law and the terms of the Groups mining and other licences and contractual arrangements.
These amounts become payable on closure of mines and are expected to be incurred over a period of three to 20 years.
KCM Copper Price Participation KCM Copper Price Participation relates to provision in respect of a price participation agreement in Zambia which requires KCM to pay ZCCM an agreed annual sum when copper price exceeds specified levels and specific triggers.
The timing of the outflow is dependent on future copper prices as well as dividends paid.
Other Other includes provision on post-retirement medical benefits and insurance claim receivables.
Deferred tax The Group has accrued significant amounts of deferred tax.
The majority of the deferred tax liability represents accelerated tax relief for the depreciation of capital expenditure and the depreciation on mining reserves created on acquisitions, net of losses carried forward by KCM.
The amounts of deferred taxation on temporary differences, provided and not provided, in the accounts are as follows: Provided Liabilities Assets As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Accelerated capital allowances 1,773.9 1,639.0 Unutilised tax losses 377.3 406.9 Other temporary differences 66.7 31.7 1,329.9 1,200.4 Recognised as: Deferred tax liability provided 1,348.1 1,209.3 Deferred tax asset recognised 18.2 8.9 1,329.9 1,200.4 Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 125 30.
Deferred Tax continued Unrecognised Deferred Tax Assets As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Unutilised tax losses 252.0 128.4 The above relates to the tax effect of US$356.9 million 2010: 190.2 million of unutilised tax losses of the Company and VRHL which have no expiry period and US$490.8 million 2010: 223.5 million of unutilised tax losses and capital allowances for VAL.
No benefit has been recognised for these items on the grounds that their successful application against future profits is not probable in foreseeable future.
Deferred Tax Asset As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million At 1 April 8.9 11.2 Credited Charged to income statement 17.3 2.2 Charged directly to equity 8.3 Foreign exchange differences 0.3 0.1 At 31 March 18.2 8.9 The Group has US$1,234.9 million of unutilised tax losses at KCM 2010: US$1,356.3 million which expire in the period 2016 to 2019 and have been offset against accelerated capital allowances at the same entity.
Deferred Tax Liability As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million At 1 April 2010 1,209.3 1,010.6 Addition due to acquisition 195.9 160.6 Credited to income statement 62.6 101.2 Charged directly to equity 2.3 8.5 Foreign exchange differences 14.1 124.6 Prior year adjustments 10.9 6.2 At 31 March 2011 1,348.1 1,209.3 No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Share-based Payments Employee Share Schemes The Group aims to provide superior rewards for outstanding performance and a high proportion of at risk remuneration for Executive Directors.
Three employee share schemes were approved by shareholders on Listing.
The Board has no present intention to introduce any further share schemes.
The Vedanta Resources Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP The LTIP is the primary arrangement under which share-based incentives are provided to the Executive Directors and the wider management group.
The maximum value of shares that can be conditionally awarded to an Executive Director in a year is 100% of annual salary.
In respect of Messrs Navin Agarwal and MS Mehta, salary means the aggregate of their salary payable by Vedanta and their gross salary payable by Sterlite.
The maximum value of shares that can be awarded to members of the wider management group is calculated by reference to the base salary, share-based remuneration already received and consistent with local market practice.
The performance condition attaching to outstanding awards under the LTIP is that the Companys performance, measured in terms of Total Shareholder Return TSR being the movement in a companys share price plus reinvested dividends, is compared over the performance period with the performance of the companies as defined in the scheme from the date of grant.
The extent to which an award vests will depend on the Companys TSR rank against a group of peer companies Adapted Comparator Group at the end of the performance period.
The vesting schedule is shown in the table below, with adjusted straight-line vesting in between the points shown and rounding down to the nearest whole share.
com 126 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Share-based Payments continued Vedantas TSR Performance against Adapted Comparator Group % of award vesting Below median At median 40 At or above upper quartile 100 The performance condition will be measured by taking the Companys TSR over the four weeks immediately preceding the date of grant and over the four weeks immediately preceding the end of the performance period, and comparing its performance with that of the comparator group described above.
The information to enable this calculation to be carried out on behalf of the Remuneration Committee the Committee will be provided by the Companys advisers.
The Committee considers that this performance condition, which requires that the Companys total return has out-performed a group of companies chosen to represent the mining sector, provides a reasonable alignment of the interests of the Executive Directors and the wider management group with those of the shareholders.
No awards will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that the Companys TSR performance reasonably reflects the Companys underlying financial performance.
Initial awards under the LTIP were granted on 26 February 2004 with further awards being made on 11 June 2004, 23 November 2004, 1 February 2006, 1 February 2007, 14 November 2007, 1 February 2009, 1 August 2009, 1 January 2010, 1 April 2010, 1 July 2010, 1 October 2010 and 1 January 2011.
The exercise price of the awards is 10 US cents per share and the performance period is one year for the February 2007 awards and three years for all other awards, with no re-testing being allowed.
The exercise period is six months from the date of vesting.
Further details on the LTIP are found in the Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 75.
The weighted average share price for the share options exercised during the year was 23.86.
All share-based awards of the Group are equity-settled as defined by IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The fair value of these awards has been determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair value, adjusted by the Groups estimate of the number of awards that will eventually vest as a result of non-market conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
The fair values were calculated using the Monte Carlo model with suitable modifications to allow for the specific performance conditions of the LTIP.
The inputs to the model include the share price at date of grant, exercise price, expected volatility, expected dividends and the risk free rate of interest.
A progressive dividend growth policy is assumed in all fair value calculations.
Expected volatility has been calculated using historical share prices over the period to date of grant that is commensurate with the performance period of the option.
The share prices of the mining companies in the Adapted Comparator Group have been modelled based on historical price movements over the period to date of grant which is also commensurate with the performance period for the option.
The history of share prices is used to determine the volatility and correlation of share prices for the companies in the Adapted Comparator Group and is needed for the Monte Carlo simulation of their future TSR performance relative to the Companys TSR performance.
All options are assumed to be exercised six weeks after vesting.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 127 31.
Share-based Payments continued The assumptions used in the calculations of the charge in respect of the LTIP awards granted during the year are set out below: LTIP April 2010 LTIP July 2010 LTIP October 2010 LTIP January 2011 Date of grant 1 Apr 10 1 Jul 10 1 Oct 10 1 Jan 11 Number of instruments 4,000 7,500 6,700 2,700 Exercise price US$0.10 US$0.10 US$0.10 US$0.10 Share price at the date of grant 27.76 21.25 21.65 25.17 Contractual life 3 Years 3 Years 3 Years 3 Years Expected volatility 70% 70% 70% 70% Expected option life 3.2 Years 3.2 Years 3.2 Years 3.2 Years Expected dividends 1.4% pa 1.4% pa 1.4% pa 1.4% pa Risk free interest rate 2.3% pa 2.3% pa 2.3% pa 2.3% pa Expected annual forfeitures 13.5% pa 13.5% pa 13.5% pa 13.5% pa Fair value per option granted 18.925 14.487 14.760 17.160 The Group recognised total expenses of US$18.4 million and US$15.6 million related to equity settled share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 respectively.
Retirement Benefits The Group operates pension schemes for the majority of its employees in India, Australia, Africa and Ireland.
a Defined Contribution Schemes Indian pension schemes.
Central Provident Fund The Central Provident Fund relates to all full time Indian employees of the Group.
The amount contributed by the Group is a designated percentage of 12% of basic salary less contributions made as part of the Pension Fund see below, together with an additional contribution of 12% of salary made by the employee.
The benefit is paid to the employee on their retirement or resignation from the Group.
Superannuation Superannuation, another pension scheme applicable in India, is applicable only to senior executives.
Certain companies hold policies with the Life Insurance Corporation of India LIC, to which they contribute a fixed amount relating to superannuation, and the pension annuity is met by the LIC as required, taking into consideration the contributions made.
Accordingly, this scheme has been accounted for on a defined contribution basis and contributions are charged directly to the income statement.
Pension Fund The Pension Fund was established in 1995 and is managed by the Government.
The employee makes no contribution to this fund but the employer makes a contribution of 8.33% of salary each month subject to a specified ceiling per employee.
This must be provided for every permanent employee on the payroll.
At the age of superannuation, contributions cease and the individual receives a monthly payment based on the level of contributions through the years, and on their salary scale at the time they retire, subject to a maximum ceiling of salary level.
The Government funds these payments, thus the Group has no additional liability beyond the contributions that it makes, regardless of whether the central fund is in surplus or deficit.
Australian Pension Scheme The Group also operates defined contribution pension schemes in Australia.
The contribution of a proportion of an employees salary into a superannuation fund is a compulsory legal requirement in Australia.
The employer contributes 9% of the employees gross remuneration where the employee is covered by the industrial agreement and 12% of the basic remuneration for all other employees, into the employees fund of choice.
All employees have the option to make additional voluntary contributions.
Zambian Pension Scheme The KCM Pension Scheme is applicable to full time permanent employees of KCM subject to the fulfilment of certain eligibility criteria.
The management of the scheme is vested in the trustees consisting of representatives of the employer and the members.
The employer makes a monthly contribution to the KCM Pension Scheme of an amount equal to 11% of that months pensionable salary and the member makes monthly contributions to the fund of an amount equal to 5% of that months pensionable salary.
com 128 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Retirement Benefits continued All contributions to the KCM Pension Scheme in respect of a member cease to be payable when the member attains normal retirement age of 55 years, or upon leaving the service of the employer, or when the member is permanently medically incapable of performing duties in the service of the employer.
Upon such cessation of contribution on the grounds of normal retirement, or being rendered medically incapable of performing duties, or early voluntary retirement within five years of retirement, the member is entitled to receive an immediate annual pension equal to his accrued pension.
The member is allowed to commute his her accrued pension subject to certain rules and regulations.
The trustees of the KCM Pension Scheme may also allow the purchase of an annuity for the benefit of members from a life assurance company or other providers of annuities, subject to statutory regulations.
The Group has no additional liability beyond the contributions that it makes, regardless of whether the KCM Pension Scheme is in surplus or deficit.
Skorpion Zinc, Namibia Provident Fund The Skorpion Zinc Provident Fund is a defined contribution fund and is compulsory to all full time employees under the age of 60.
Company contribution to the fund is a fixed percentage of 8% per month of pensionable salary, whilst the employee contributes 7% with the option of making additional contributions, over and above the normal contribution, up to a maximum of 12%.
Normal retirement age is 60 years and benefit payable is the members fund credit which is equal to all employer and employee contributions plus interest.
The same applies when an employee resigns from the Company.
The Fund provides disability cover which is equal to the members fund credit and a death cover of two times annual salary in the event of death before retirement.
The latest actuarial value was performed at 28 February 2011.
At that date the Fund was credit.
Black Mountain Pty Limited, South Africa Pension & Provident Funds Black Mountain Mining Pty Ltd has two retirement funds, both administered by Alexander Forbes, a registered financial service provider.
Both funds form part of the Alexander Forbes umbrella fund and are defined contribution funds.
The purpose of the funds is to provide retirement and death benefits to all eligible employees.
Lisheen Mine, Ireland Pension Funds Lisheen Pension Plan is for all employees.
Lisheen pay 5% and employees pay 5% with the option to contribute AVCs if desired.
Executive contributions are 15% by the Company and 15% by the employee with the option to contribute AVCs if desired.
Death benefit is three times salary for employees and four times salary for executives.
Pension and life cover ceases at 65. b Defined Benefit Schemes India The Gratuity schemes are defined benefit schemes which are open to all Group employees in India who have a minimum of five years of service with their employing company.
These schemes are funded by the Group in some subsidiaries.
Based on actuarial valuation, a provision is recognised in full for the projected obligation over and above the funds held in scheme.
In case where there is no funding held by the scheme, full provision is recognised in the balance sheet.
Under these schemes, benefits are provided based on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the schemes are held in separate funds and a full actuarial valuation of the schemes is carried out on an annual basis.
MALCO MALCO contributes to the LIC Fund based on an actuarial valuation every year.
MALCOs Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The latest actuarial valuation was performed as at 31 March 2011 using the projected unit credit actuarial method.
At that date the fund was in deficit.
BALCO At BALCO, all employees who are scheduled to retire on or before 31 March 2011 are covered by the LIC and remaining contributions to the LIC have been made up to 31 March 2013 and have been accounted for on a defined contribution basis.
The Gratuity scheme is accounted for as a defined benefit scheme for all employees scheduled to retire after 31 March 2013 and who are not covered by the LIC.
A provision is recognised based on the latest actuarial valuation which was performed as at 31 March 2011 using the projected unit actuarial method.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 129 32.
Retirement Benefits continued HZL HZL contributes to the LIC based on an actuarial valuation every year.
HZLs Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The latest actuarial valuation was performed as at 31 March 2011 using the projected unit actuarial method.
VAL VAL contributes to the LIC based on an actuarial valuation.
Liabilities with regard to the Gratuity scheme are fully provided in the balance sheet and are determined by actuarial valuation as at the balance sheet date and as per gratuity regulations for the Company.
TSPL TSPL contributes to the LIC based on an actuarial valuation.
Sterlite Sterlite does not contribute to the LIC.
Sesa Goa Sesa Goa contributes to the LIC based on actuarial valuation every year.
Sesa Goas Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
Zambia Specified permanent employees of KCM are entitled to receive medical and retirement severance benefits.
This comprises two months basic pay for every completed year of service with an earliest service start date of 1 July 2004.
Under this scheme, benefits are provided based on final pensionable pay and a full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out on an annual basis.
The accruals are not contributed to any fund and are in the form of provisions in KCMs accounts.
On the death of an employee during service, a lump sum amount is paid to his dependants.
This amount is equal to 60 months basic pay for employees who joined before 1 April 2000 and 30 months basic pay for employees who joined on or after 1 April 2000.
For fixed term contract employees, the benefit payable on death is 30 months basic pay As at 31 March 2011, membership of pension schemes across MALCO, BALCO, HZL, VAL, Sterlite, Sesa and KCM stood at 28,905 employees 31 March 2010: 29,637.
The deficits, principal actuarial assumptions and other aspects of these schemes are disclosed in further detail in notes d and e below.
c Pension Scheme Costs Contributions of US$41.2 million and US$nil million in respect of defined benefit schemes were outstanding and prepaid respectively as at 31 March 2011 2010: US$36.7 million and US$nil million respectively.
Contributions to pension schemes in the year ending 31 March 2012 are expected to be around US$9.8 million.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Pension Scheme Costs US$ million US$ million Defined contribution pension schemes 22.3 17.7 Defined benefit pension schemes 29.3 20.5 51.6 38.2 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 130 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Retirement Benefits continued d Principal Actuarial Assumptions.
2 Assumptions regarding mortality for KCM are based on World Health Organisation Life Tables for 1999 applicable to Zambia which has been taken as a reference point.
Based on this a mortality table which is appropriate for the workers of Konkola Copper Mines plc has been derived.
e Balance Sheet Recognition The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit pension schemes are as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Sesa Sesa US$ million MALCO BALCO Sterlite HZL KCM VAL Goa Total MALCO BALCO Sterlite HZL KCM VAL Goa Total Fair value of pension scheme assets 0.2 1.7 2.3 25.8 1.3 8.0 39.3 1.9 22.9 0.3 7.5 32.6 Present value of pension scheme liabilities 23.5 3.9 38.5 19.6 0.8 9.8 96.1 0.2 13.3 3.2 27.5 16.1 0.4 8.6 69.3 Deficit in pension scheme recognised in balance sheet 0.2 21.8 1.6 12.7 19.6 0.5 1.8 56.8 0.2 13.3 1.3 4.6 16.1 0.1 1.1 36.7 Deferred tax 0.1 7.1 0.5 4.0 6.4 0.1 0.6 18.4 0.1 4.5 0.4 1.5 5.5 0.4 12.4 Net pension liability 0.1 14.7 1.1 8.7 13.2 0.4 1.2 38.4 0.1 8.8 0.9 3.1 10.6 0.1 0.7 24.3 Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 131 32.
com 132 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Retirement Benefits continued h Movements in the Fair Value of Scheme Assets As at As at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million At 1 April 32.6 23.4 Acquisition 2.4 Contributions received 11.5 15.5 Benefits paid 14.7 13.2 Expected return on plan asset 2.6 1.8 Foreign exchange differences 7.3 2.7 At 31 March 39.3 32.6 i Five Year History Defined Benefit Pension Plan As at As at As at As at As at 31 March 11 31 March 10 31 March 09 31 March 08 31 March 07 US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Experience losses gains arising on scheme liabilities 20.4 11.3 7.8 1.4 2.9 Difference between expected and actual return on plan assets 0.1 0.1 Fair value of pension scheme assets 39.3 32.6 23.6 26.8 17.0 Present value of pension scheme liabilities 96.1 69.3 52.9 69.3 52.3 Deficits in the schemes 56.8 36.7 29.3 42.5 35.3 33.
Share Capital At 31 March 2011 At 31 March 2010 Authorised Number US$ million Number US$ million Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 400,000,000 40.0 400,000,000 40.0 Deferred shares of 1 each 50,000 0.0 50,000 0.0 400,050,000 40.0 400,050,000 40.0 Ordinary shares issued and fully paid Number US$ million Number US$ million Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 296,845,751 29.7 296,101,246 29.6 Deferred shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 296,895,751 29.7 296,151,246 29.6 During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Company issued 738,248 shares to the employees pursuant to the LTIP scheme 2010: 418,532 shares.
The holders of deferred shares do not have the right to receive notice of any general meeting of the Company nor the right to attend, speak or vote at any such general meeting.
The deferred shares have no rights to dividends and, on a winding-up or other return of capital, entitle the holder only to the payment of the amounts paid on such shares after repayment to the holders of ordinary shares of the nominal amount paid up on the ordinary shares plus the payment of 100,000 per ordinary share.
Of the 50,000 deferred shares, one deferred share was issued at par and has been fully paid, and 49,999 deferred shares were each paid up as to one-quarter of their nominal value.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Company continued its share buy-back programme and purchased 3,126,133 of its own shares 2010: 11,502,873 which are held in treasury.
At 31 March 2011, the total number of shares held in treasury was 24,206,816 2010: 21,080,683. Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 133 34. Business Combinations On 3 December 2010 Vedanta Resources plc through its subsidiary THL Zinc Limited, acquired 100% equity of Anglo Base Namibia Holdings Pty Ltd which is the holding company of the Skorpion Namibian assets for a total consideration of US$706.7 million.
The operating and financial results of Skorpion Zinc, Namibia have been consolidated effective from 3 December 2010, which was the date of acquisition.
Skorpion Zinc, Namibia is involved in mining and smelting of zinc.
The fair values and business combination accounting set out in this annual report are provisional for the 12 month period from the date of acquisition.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Skorpion Zinc, Namibia as at the date of the acquisition were estimated as follows: US$ million Fair value Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 628.2 Financial assets investments 3.0 631.2 Current assets Inventories 53.3 Trade and other receivables 3.9 Cash and cash equivalents 119.5 176.7 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 21.7 Current tax liabilities 0.2 21.9 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 30.6 Provisions 48.7 79.3 Net assets 706.7 Satisfied by: Cash consideration paid 706.7 Since the date of acquisition, Skorpion Zinc has contributed US$112.2 million to the revenue and US$18.6 million to the net profit of the Group for the year ended March 2011.
If Skorpion Zinc had been acquired at the beginning of the year, the revenue of the Group would have been US$342.2 million higher and the net profit of the Group would have been US$80.4 million higher.
Acquisition costs related to Skorpion Zinc, charged to income statement is US$1.93 million.
com 134 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34. Business Combinations continued On 4 February 2011 Vedanta Resources plc through its subsidiary THL Zinc Limited, acquired 74% equity of Black Mountain Mining Pty Ltd for a total consideration of US$260.2 million.
Shareholders loan from Anglo to Black Mountain Mines was taken over by Vedanta of amount US$87.7 million.
The operating and financial results of Black Mountain Mines, South Africa have been consolidated effective from 4 February 2011, which was the date of acquisition.
Black Mountain Mines, South Africa holds two key assets, which includes Black Mountain mine and the Gamsberg exploration project.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Black Mountain Mines as at the date of the acquisition were provisionally estimated as follows: US$ million Fair value Assets Non-current assets Intangibles 162.1 Property, plant and equipment 297.5 Financial assets investments 10.8 470.4 Current assets Inventories 34.8 Trade and other receivables 29.9 Cash and cash equivalents 31.6 96.3 Liabilities Current liabilities Borrowings 117.1 Trade and other payables 12.4 Current tax liabilities 8.9 138.4 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 124.8 Provisions 29.9 154.7 Net assets 273.6 Less: Non-controlling recognised on acquisition 13.4 260.2 Satisfied by: Cash consideration paid 260.2 Since the date of acquisition, Black Mountain Mines has contributed US$55.3 million to the revenue and US$4.9 million to the net profit of the Group for the year ended March 2011.
If Black Mountain Mines had been acquired at the beginning of the year, the revenue of the Group would have been US$230.5 million higher and the net profit of the Group would have been US$53.8 million higher.
Non-controlling interest has been measured on a cost basis.
Acquisition costs related to Black Mountain Mines, charged to income statement is US$0.86 million.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 135 34. Business Combinations continued On 15 February 2011 Vedanta Resources plc through its subsidiary THL Zinc Holding BV, acquired 100% equity of Anglo Americal Lisheen Finance Limited for a total consideration of US$546.2 million.
The operating and financial results of Lisheen Mines, Ireland have been consolidated effective from 15 February 2011, which was the date of acquisition.
Lisheen Mines, Ireland is mainly involved in mining and production of zinc concentrate.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Lisheen mines as at the date of the acquisition were estimated as follows: US$ million Fair value Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 278.9 278.9 Current assets Inventories 18.2 Trade and other receivables 14.8 Cash and cash equivalents 325.2 Liquid investments 37.3 395.5 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 22.8 Current tax liabilities 3.0 25.8 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 40.5 Provisions 61.9 102.4 Net assets 546.2 Satisfied by: Cash consideration paid 546.2 Since the date of acquisition, Lisheen Mines has contributed US$51.4 million to the revenue and US$11.2 million to the net profit of the Group for the year ended March 2011.
If Lisheen Mines had been acquired at the beginning of the year, the revenue of the Group would have been US$291.9 million higher and the net profit of the Group would have been US$101.4 million higher.
Acquisition costs related to Lisheen mines, charged to income statement is US$5.7 million.
Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies Commitments The Group has a number of continuing operational and financial commitments in the normal course of business including: Exploratory mining commitments: Mining commitments arising under production sharing agreements: and Completion of the construction of certain assets.
As at As at 31 March 2011 1 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Capital commitments contracted but not provided 3,737.1 4,065.4 Commitments at 31 March 2011 primarily related to the expansion projects at HZL US$144.2 million 2010: US$85.6 million, KCM US$127.4 million 2010: US$180.0 million, VAL US$538.7 million 2010: US$1,013.6 million, SEL US$121.9 million 2010: US$258.6 million, BALCO US$516.6 million 2010: US$512.8 million and Talwandi Sabo US$1,818.4 million 2010: US$1,589.4 million.
com 136 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 35.
Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies continued Guarantees Companies within the Group provide guarantees within the normal course of business.
Guarantees have also been provided in respect of certain short-term and long-term borrowings.
A summary of the most significant guarantees is set out below: As at 31 March 2011, US$240.0 million of guarantees were advanced to banks in the normal course of business 2010: US$133.3 million.
The Group has also entered into guarantees advanced to the customs authorities in India of US$1,077.2 million relating to the export of iron ore and payment of import duties on purchases of raw material 2010: US$908.3 million.
Export Obligations The Indian entities of the Group have export obligations of US$5,691.7 million 2010: US$5,091.2 million on account of concessional rates of import duty paid on capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme and under Advance Licence Scheme for import of raw material laid down by the Government of India.
In the event of the Groups inability to meet its obligations, the Groups liability would be US$711.6 million 2010: US$723.0 million, reduced in proportion to actual exports.
This liability is backed by bonds executed in favour of the customs department amounting to US$1,710.5 million 2010: US$958.2 million.
Guarantees to Suppliers The Group has given corporate guarantees to certain suppliers of concentrate.
The value of these guarantees was US$120.0 million at 31 March 2011 2010: US$170.0 million.
Environmental and Terminal Benefits ETB Cash Reserve Account KCM Pursuant to the terms of the shareholders agreement between VRHL and ZCI dated 5 November 2004, KCM is expected to contribute a minimum of US$10 million with a maximum of US$18.0 million in any financial year to ensure that the amount of ETB liabilities are covered by a cash reserve when the life of the Konkola Ore Body comes to an end.
The ETB liabilities refer to KCMs obligations in relation to the environment and any terminal benefits payable to its employees.
As at 31 March 2011, ETB liabilities provided for were US$86.0 million 2010: US$76.0 million, although these liabilities are likely to fluctuate at each future reporting date.
Contingencies The Company has the following significant contingencies.
With regard to the claims against Group companies included below, unless stated, no provision has been made in the financial statements as the Directors believe that it is not probable that the claim will give rise to a material liability.
MALCO Claims with Tamil Nadu Electricity Board TNEB TNEB is claiming US$22.6 million from MALCO for an electricity self-generation levy for the period from May 1999 to June 2003.
This claim has arisen since the commissioning of MALCOs captive power plant in 1999.
The Company has sought an exemption from the application of this levy from the Government of Tamil Nadu.
The application is under consideration.
Meanwhile, the Madras High Court has in its recent order, remitted back the case to the State of Tamil Nadu, to take a decision afresh on the representation for grant of tax exemption on consumption of electricity and directed to pass a detailed speaking order.
HZL: Department of Mines and Geology The Department of Mines and Geology of the State of Rajasthan issued several show cause notices in August, September and October 2006 to HZL, totalling US$74 million.
These notices alleged unlawful occupation and unauthorised mining of associated minerals other than zinc and lead at HZLs Rampura Agucha, Rajpura Dariba and Zawar mines in Rajasthan during the period from July 1968 to March 2006.
HZL believes that the likelihood of this claim becoming an obligation of the Company is unlikely and thus no provision has been made in the financial statements.
HZL has filed writ petitions in the High Court of Rajasthan in Jodhpur and has obtained a stay in respect of these demands.
RICHTER: Income Tax The Indian tax authorities have served a show cause notice on an indirect subsidiary of Vedanta Resources plc, Richter Holdings Ltd Richter, for alleged failure to deduct withholding tax on capital gain on the alleged indirect acquisition of shares in Sesa Goa Ltd in April 2007.
Richter has applied to the larger bench of the Karnataka High Court to seek to quash the notice in view of the established legal position.
The Court has granted stay of proceedings for two months from 19 April 2011.
Vedanta believes that neither Richter nor any other member of the Group is liable for such withholding tax and intends to defend this position vigorously.
Miscellaneous Disputes Sterlite, HZL, MALCO and BALCO The Indian excise and related indirect tax authorities have made several claims against the above companies for additional excise and indirect duties.
The claims mostly relate either to the assessable values of sales and purchases or to incomplete documentation supporting the companies returns.
The approximate value of claims against the companies total US$583.5 million 2010: US$380.4 million, of which US$6.4 million 2010: US$10.4 million is included as a provision in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2011.
In the view of the Directors, there are no significant unprovided liabilities arising from these claims.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 137 36.
Related Party Transactions The information below sets out transactions and balances between the Group and various related parties in the normal course of business for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Sterlite Technologies Limited STL 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Sales to STL 137.8 165.0 Reimbursement of expenses 0.1 Purchases 5.3 Net interest received 0.2 0.1 Net amounts receivable at year end 13.3 4.4 Sterlite Technologies Limited is related by virtue of having the same controlling party as the Group, namely Volcan.
Pursuant to the terms of the Shared Services Agreement dated 5 December 2003 entered into by the Company, Sterlite and STL, the Company and Sterlite provide various commercial services in relation to STLs businesses on an arms length basis and at normal commercial terms.
For the year ended 31 March 2011, the commercial services provided to STL were performed by certain senior employees of the Group on terms set out in the Shared Services Agreement.
The services provided to STL in this year amounted to US$nil 2010: US$27,154.
Vedanta Foundation formerly Sterlite Foundation During the year US$1.7 million was paid to the Vedanta Foundation 2010: US$1.1 million.
Vedanta Foundation is a registered not-for-profit entity engaged in computer education and other related social and charitable activities.
The major activity of the Vedanta Foundation is providing computer education for disadvantaged students.
The Vedanta Foundation is a related party as it is controlled by members of the Agarwal family who control Volcan.
Volcan is also the majority shareholder of Vedanta Resources plc.
Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited Following the acquisition of Sesa Goa, the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited, a charitable institution, became a related party of the Group on the basis that key management personnel of the Group have significant influence on the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, US$0.7 million 2010: US$0.7 million was paid to the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited.
The Anil Agarwal Foundation During the year, US$0.4 million 2010: US$0.6 million was received from the Anil Agarwal Foundation towards reimbursement of administrative expenses.
The Anil Agarwal Foundation is a registered not-for-profit entity engaged in social and charitable activities.
The Anil Agarwal Foundation is controlled by members of the Agarwal family.
Henry Davis York 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Consultancy services 1.2 0.4 Henry Davis York provides consultancy services to a subsidiary of the Group.
The executive management of Henry Davis York hold a similar office at the said subsidiary.
Sterlite Iron and Steel Limited 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Reimbursement of expenses 0.1 0.1 Receivable at year end 0.3 Sterlite Iron and Steel Limited is a related party by virtue of having the same controlling party as the Group, namely Volcan.
Sterlite Shipping Venture Limited 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Reimbursement of expenses 0.01 Sterlite Shipping Venture Limited is controlled by members of the Agarwal family.
com 138 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 36.
Related Party Transactions continued Vedanta Medical Research Foundation 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Donation 9.5 Loan balance receivable 3.5 Other amount receivable at year end 4.5 Vedanta Medical Research Foundation formerly Vedanta Medical Research Association is a related party of the Group on the basis that key management personnel of the Group exercise significant influence.
Vedanta University 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Reimbursement of expenses 0.1 Vedanta University is a related party of the Group on the basis that key management personnel of the Group exercise significant influence.
Volcan Investments Limited 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Reimbursement of expenses 0.2 Remuneration of Key Management Personnel The remuneration of the Directors and the key management personnel of the Group are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Short-term employee benefits 8.8 8.7 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.5 Share-based payments 5.0 9.4 14.4 18.6 37.
Share Transactions BALCO Option The Company purchased a 51.0% holding in BALCO from the Government of India on 2 March 2001.
Under the terms of this shareholders agreement SHA for BALCO, the Company has a call option that allows it to purchase the Government of Indias remaining ownership interest in BALCO at any point from 2 March 2004.
The Company exercised this option on 19 March 2004.
However, the Government of India has contested the validity of the option and the valuation.
The Company sought an interim order from the High Court of Delhi to restrain the Government of India from transferring or disposing of its shareholding pending resolution of the dispute.
The High Court directed on 7 August 2006 that the parties attempt to settle the dispute by way of a mediation process as provided for in the SHA.
However, as the dispute could not be settled through mediation, it has been referred to arbitration as provided for in the SHA.
Arbitration proceedings commenced on 16 February 2009 and final hearing was held between 27 August 2010 and 29 August 2010.
In view of the judgement delivered by the division bench of the Bombay High Court on section 111A of the Companies Act, 1956, an additional hearing was held on 9 October 2010 giving opportunity to the parties to make their submissions on the same before the Arbitration Tribunal.
The Arbitration Tribunal in its majority award dated 25 January 2011 has rejected the claims of Sterlite on the grounds that clauses on call option, right of first refusal, tag along right, restriction on transfer of shares are violative of section 111A 2 of the Companies Act, 1956.
Sterlite has on 23 April 2011, filed an application under section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 in the High Court of Delhi for setting aside the award dated 25 January 2011 to the extent to which it holds that clause 5.8, 5.3, 5.4 and 5.1 a of the SHA is void, ineffective and inoperative by virtue of being violative of sub-section 2 of 111A of the Companies Act, 1956.
The listing of the application is awaited.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 139 37.
Share Transactions continued HZL Option The Companys wholly-owned subsidiary, Sterlite Opportunities and Ventures Limited SOVL, had two call options to purchase all of the Government of Indias shares in HZL at fair market value.
SOVL exercised the first call option on 29 August 2003 and acquired an additional 18.9% of HZLs issued share capital, increasing its shareholding to 64.9%.
As of 31 March 2009 and 2010, the Government of Indias holding in HZL was 29.5%.
The second call option provides SOVL the right to acquire the Government of Indias remaining 29.5% share in HZL.
This call option is subject to the right of the Government of India to sell 3.5% of HZL to HZL employees.
This call option is also subject to the Government of Indias right, prior to the exercise of this call option, to sell its shares in HZL through a public offer.
From 11 April 2007, SOVL has the right to exercise the second call option.
The option has no expiry date.
The Company has exercised the second call option in its letter dated 21 July 2009.
The Government has stated that they are maintaining the same stand as in BALCO on the validity of the call option and has refused to act upon the second call option.
The Company has invoked the Arbitration clause for referring the matter to arbitration and has appointed its arbitrator, and has requested the Government to nominate its arbitrator nominee so that Arbitral Tribunal is constituted.
As the Government of India has not appointed its arbitrator, the Company had filed Arbitration application u s 11 6 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 in the Delhi High Court for constitution of arbitral tribunal.
The Delhi High Court has in its order dated 18 May 2010 directed the parties to appoint mediators for mediation of the dispute and if mediation fails, arbitration will commence.
The Government of India and SOVL has appointed mediators, respectively.
Depending upon the outcome of the mediation process the arbitration would commence.
Share Purchases During financial year 2011, the Group increased its holding in certain of its subsidiaries through open market purchases.
The details of such purchases are as follows: a 5,344,702 shares of Sterlite Industries India Limited accounting for 0.64% of SIILs total equity.
b 2,045,000 shares of Sesa Goa accounting for 0.25% of Sesas total equity.
c 250,364 shares of MALCO accounting for 0.22% of MALCOs total equity.
The aggregate amount on these transactions of US$62.9 million was recorded within equity.
Subsequent Events Subsequent to the balance sheet date of 31 March 2011 the Group through its subsidiary Sesa Goa acquired 200 million shares amounting to 10.4% stake in Cairn India Limited from Petronas International Corporation Ltd Petronas at a price of INR 331 per share, resulting in total cash consideration of approximately US$1.5 billion.
On 30 April 2011, the Open Offer by Sesa Goa Limited with respect to the acquisition of shares in Cairn India Limited closed.
Sesa Goa Limited received acceptances for circa 8.1% of the total shares of Cairn India Limited, at a total cost of US$1.2 billion.
com 140 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 39.
Principal Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the following principal subsidiaries: The Companys economic percentage holding Immediate percentage holding Immediate Country of holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 incorporation company 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Direct Subsidiaries of the Parent Company Vedanta Resources Holding Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Great VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Limited VRHL Britain Vedanta Resources Jersey Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Limited VRJL Vedanta Resources Jersey II Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Limited VRJL-II Vedanta Finance Jersey Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Limited VFJL Vedanta Resources Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Great VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Investments Limited VRIL Britain Vedanta Jersey Investments Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Limited Indirect Subsidiaries of the Parent Company Bharat Aluminium Company Aluminium mining and 29.34% 29.01% India Sterlite 51.00% 51.00% Limited BALCO smelting Copper Mines of Tasmania Copper mining 57.53% 56.88% Australia MCBV 100.00% 100.00% Pty Limited CMT Fujariah Gold Gold and silver 57.53% 56.88% UAE CMT 100.00% 100.00% processing Hindustan Zinc Limited HZL Zinc mining and 37.35% 36.93% India SOVL 64.92% 64.92% smelting The Madras Aluminium Energy generation 94.76% 94.54% India Twin Star 78.76% 94.54% Company Limited MALCO Monte Cello BV MCBV Holding company 57.53% 56.88% Netherlands Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% Monte Cello Corporation NV Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Netherlands Twin Star 100.00% 100.00% MCNV Konkola Copper Mines PLC Copper mining and 79.40% 79.40% Zambia VRHL 79.40% 79.40% KCM smelting Sterlite Energy Limited SEL Energy generation 57.53% 56.88% India Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Iron ore 55.13% 57.41% India Finsider 46.20% 48.32% 1 Sesa Industries Limited Iron ore 50.64% India Sesa Goa 88.25% Sesa Resources Limited Iron ore 55.13% 57.41% India Sesa Goa 100.00% 100.00% formerly V S Dempo Sesa Mining Corporation Iron ore 55.13% 57.41% India Sesa 100.00% 100.00% Private Limited formerly Resources DMCL Limited Goa Maritime Private Limited Iron ore 27.56% 28.71% India Sesa 50.00% 50.00% Resources Limited Sterlite Industries India Copper smelting 57.53% 56.88% India Twin Star 54.64% 54.00% Limited Sterlite Sterlite Opportunities and Holding company 57.53% 56.88% India Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% Venture Limited SOVL Sterlite Infra Limited SIL Non-trading 57.53% 56.88% India Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% Earlier Sterlite Paper Limited Thalanga Copper Mines Pty Copper mining 57.53% 56.88% Australia MCBV 100.00% 100.00% Limited TCM Twin Star Holdings Limited Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Twin Star Vedanta Aluminium Limited Alumina mining, 87.47% 87.28% India Twin Star 45.50% 45.50% VAL aluminium refining and smelting Richter Holding Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRCL 100.00% 100.00% Richter Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 141 39.
Principal Subsidiaries continued The Companys economic percentage holding Immediate percentage holding Immediate Country of holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 incorporation company 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Westglobe Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius Richter 100.00% 100.00% Finsider International Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Great Richter 100.00% 100.00% Company Limited Britain Vedanta Resources Finance Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Great VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Limited VRFL Britain Vedanta Resources Cyprus Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRFL 100.00% 100.00% Limited VRCL Welter Trading Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRCL 100.00% 100.00% Lakomasko BV Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Netherlands VRHL 100.00% 100.00% THL Zinc Ventures Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% formerly THL KCM Limited Infra Twin Star Energy Holdings Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Limited formerly THL Aluminium THL Zinc Limited former Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius THL Zinc 100.00% 100.00% KCM Holdings Limited Ventures Ltd Sterlite USA Inc. Financing company 57.53% 56.88% USA Sterlite 100.00% 100.00% Talwandi Sabo Power Limited Energy generation 57.53% 56.88% India SEL 100.00% 100.00% Allied Port Services Pvt Ltd Port service 87.47% 87.28% India VAL 100.00% 100.00% Konkola Resources Plc Holding company 100.00% Great VRHL 100.00% Britain Vizag General Cargo Berth Infrastructure 42.58% India Sterlite 74.00% Pvt.
Limited Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Holding company 100.00% Mauritius Twin Star 100.00% Limited TMHL Energy Holdings Ltd. THL Namibia Holdings Pty Mining and exploration 57.53% Namibia Sterlite 100.00% Limited VNHL Infra Skorpion Zinc Pty Limited Acquisition of 57.53% Namibia VNHL 100.00% SZPL immovable and movable properties Namzinc Pty Limited SZ Mining 57.53% Namibia SZPL 100.00% Skorpion Mining Company Mining 57.53% Namibia SZPL 100.00% Pty Limited NZ Amica Guesthouse Pty Ltd Accommodation and 57.53% Namibia SZPL 100.00% catering services Roshkor Township Pty Development of town 28.77% Namibia SZPL 50.00% Limited and delivering of utilities Rosh Pinah Healthcare Pty Leasing out of 36.82% Namibia SZPL 64.00% Ltd medical equipment and building and conducting services related thereto Black Mountain Mining Pty Mining 42.58% South THL Zinc 74.00% Ltd Africa Ltd THL Zinc Holding BV Financing company 57.53% Netherlands Sterlite 100.00% Infra Lisheen Mine Partnership Mining partnership firm 57.53% Ireland Vedanta 100.00% Base Metals Ireland Ltd THL Zinc Holding Non-trading company 57.53% Netherlands THL Zinc 100.00% Cooperative U.
Ltd. Investment company 57.53% South THL Zinc 100.00% Africa Ltd Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 142 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 39.
Principal Subsidiaries continued The Companys economic percentage holding Immediate percentage holding Immediate Country of holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 incorporation company 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Vedanta Lisheen Finance Investment company 57.53% Ireland THL Zinc 100.00% Limited VLFL Holding BV Vedanta Base Metals Ireland No operations 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% Limited Vedanta Lisheen Mining Mining 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% Limited Killoran Lisheen Mining Mining 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% Limited Killoran Lisheen Finance Investment company 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% Limited Lisheen Milling Limited Manufacturing 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% Killoran Concentrates Limited No operations 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% Killoran Lisheen Limited No operations 57.53% Ireland VLFL 100.00% Killoran Lisheen Holdings No operations 57.53% Ireland Killoran 100.00% Limited Lisheen Ltd. Azela Limited No operations 57.53% Ireland Killoran 100.00% Lisheen Ltd. Paradip Port Services Pvt Infrastructure 42.58% India Sterlite 74.00% Limited MALCO Power Company Investment company 57.53% India Sterlite 100.00% Limited Malco Industries Limited Investment company 57.53% India Sterlite 100.00% 1 Now merged with Sesa Goa Ltd.
The Group owns directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of all of its subsidiaries as mentioned in the list above, and the Group is able to govern its subsidiaries financial and operating policies so as to benefit from their activities.
Ultimate Controlling Party At 31 March 2011, the ultimate controlling party of the Group was Volcan, which is controlled by persons related to the Executive Chairman, Mr Anil Agarwal.
Volcan is incorporated in the Bahamas, and does not produce Group accounts.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 143 41.
Company Balance Sheet 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Note US$ million US$ million Fixed assets Tangible assets 43 0.1 0.2 Investments in subsidiaries 44 1,061.8 713.3 Investment in preference shares of subsidiaries 45 178.9 178.9 Financial asset investment 46 0.5 0.5 Derivative asset 6.0 0.0 1,247.3 892.9 Current assets Debtors due within one year 47 323.2 587.8 Debtors due after one year 47 3,857.7 3,350.6 Current asset investments 48 262.0 199.1 Cash at bank and in hand 1.0 1.4 4,443.9 4,138.9 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Trade and other creditors 49 33.7 78.0 External borrowings 49 370.6 186.2 Loan from subsidiary 49 188.4 180.4 592.7 444.6 Net current assets 3,851.2 3,694.3 Total assets less current liabilities 5,098.5 4,587.2 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year Loan from subsidiary 50 1,669.4 1,224.9 External borrowings 50 2,420.4 2,592.7 Derivative liabilities 50 12.1 4,089.8 3,829.7 Net assets 1,008.7 757.5 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 51 29.7 29.6 Share premium account 51 196.8 196.8 Share-based payment reserve 51 20.5 25.6 Convertible bond reserve 51 453.3 305.9 Other reserves 51 1.8 1.8 Treasury shares 51 490.6 428.9 Profit and loss account 51 800.8 630.3 Shareholders funds 51 1,008.7 757.5 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 144 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 42.
Company Accounting Policies The Vedanta Resources plc the Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and UK company law UK GAAP.
The financial information has been prepared on an historical cost basis.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the parent company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
Significant Accounting Policies Investments in Subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries represent equity holdings in subsidiaries valued at cost less any provision for impairment.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Investment in Preference Shares of Subsidiaries Investments in preference shares of subsidiaries are stated at fair value.
The fair value is represented by the face value of the preference shares as the investments are redeemable at any time for their face value at the option of the Company.
Currency Translation Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company, being US dollars, are translated into US dollars at the spot exchange rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into US dollars at year end exchange rates, or at a contractual rate if applicable.
Tangible Fixed Assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Deferred Taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on all timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, subject to the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Share-based Payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions are determined by an external valuer and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Amounts recharged to subsidiaries in respect of awards granted to employees of subsidiaries are recognised as intercompany debtors until repaid.
Borrowings Interest bearing loans are recorded at the net proceeds received i. e. net of direct transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on accruals basis and charged to the profit and loss account using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Convertible Bonds The convertible bonds issued by VRJL and VRJL-II Note 50 are accounted for as a compound instrument.
The gross proceeds net of issue costs were lent to the Company by VRJL and VRJL-II.
The equity component has been recognised in a separate reserve of the Company and is not subsequently remeasured.
The recognition of the equity component by the Company acts to reduce the payable to VRJL and VRJL-II which arises once the gross proceeds are borrowed.
The interest expensed on the liability component is calculated by applying an effective interest rate.
The bonds are first convertible into preference shares of the issuer having a paid value of US$100,000 per preference share, which are exchanged immediately for ordinary shares of the Company.
Financial Instruments The Company has elected to take the exemption provided in paragraph 3C b of FRS 25 in respect of these parent company financial statements.
Full disclosures are provided in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the period ended 31 March 2011.
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at their fair value on the date of the derivative transaction and are remeasured at their fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account.
The hedged item is recorded at fair value and any gain or loss is recorded in the profit and loss account and is offset by the gain or loss from the change in the fair value of the derivative.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 145 42.
Company Accounting Policies continued Derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the balance sheet date and gains or losses are recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
Cash Flow Statement The Companys individual financial statements are outside the scope of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements because the Company prepares publicly available consolidated financial statements, which include a consolidated cash flow statement.
Accordingly, the Company does not present an individual company cash flow statement.
Related Party Disclosures The Companys individual financial statements are exempt from the requirements of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures because its individual financial statements are presented together with its consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the individual financial statements do not include related party disclosures.
Financial Guarantees Guarantees issued by the Company on behalf of other Group companies are designated as Insurance Contracts.
Accordingly these are shown as contingent liabilities Note 52.
Company Tangible Fixed Assets US$ million Cost At 1 April 2010 1.2 Additions 0.0 At 31 March 2011 1.2 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2010 1.0 Charge for the period 0.1 At 31 March 2011 1.1 Net book value At 1 April 2010 0.2 At 31 March 2011 0.1 44.
Investments in Subsidiaries US$ million Cost At 1 April 2010 713.3 Additions 348.5 At 31 March 2011 1,061.8 At 31 March 2011, the Company held 144,538,524 shares in VRHL 2010: 139,559,950 shares, being 100% of VRHLs issued equity share capital.
During the year the Company invested US$348.5 million to acquire 4,978,572 ordinary shares issued by VRHL for US$1 each at a premium of US$69 each.
The Company also held one deferred share in VRHL 2010: one.
At 31 March 2011, the Company held two shares in Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited VFJL 2010: two, two shares in Vedanta Resources Jersey Limited VRJL 2010: two, two shares in Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited VRJL-II 2010: two, two shares in Vedanta Jersey Investment Limited VJIL 2010: two, being 100% of its issued equity share capital.
VRHL is an intermediary holding company incorporated in England and Wales.
VFJL, VRJL and VRJL-II are companies established to raise funds for the Vedanta Group via convertible bond issue and are incorporated in Jersey.
A detailed list of subsidiary investments held indirectly by the Company can be seen in Note 39.
com 146 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 45.
Investment in Preference Shares of Subsidiaries US$ million Fair value At 1 April 2010 178.9 Additions At 31 March 2011 178.9 As 1 April 2009 2.6 Additions 176.3 At 31 March 2010 178.9 As at 31 March 2011, the Company held 178,916,000 preference shares in VFJL 2010: 178,916,000.
These shares entitle the holder to a dividend of 4.6% of their face value.
Financial Asset Investment US$ million Fair value At 1 April 2010 0.5 Fair value movement in investment 0.0 At 31 March 2011 0.5 At 1 April 2009 0.2 Fair value movement in investment 0.3 At 31 March 2010 0.5 The investment relates to an equity investment of shares in Victoria Gold Corporation.
At 31 March 2011, the investment in Victoria Gold Corporation was revalued.
Company Debtors 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 4,176.2 3,938.0 Prepayments and accrued income 4.3 0.2 Other taxes 0.4 0.2 Total 4,180.9 3,938.4 Debtors due within one year 323.2 587.8 Debtors due after one year 3,857.7 3,350.6 Total 4,180.9 3,938.4 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings At 31 March 2011, the Company had loans due from VRHL of US$1,965.8 million 2010: US$1,894.4 million which represented the downstreaming of funds to the subsidiaries.
Out of the total loan, amount of US$579.3 million bears interest at US dollar six months LIBOR plus 350 basis points, US$500 million at 5.8%, US$250 million at 8.95%, US$200 million at 5.9%, US$182.0 million at 9.7%, US$156.4 million at 8.95% and US$98.1 million at 8.8%.
In addition to the loans, the Company was owed US$269.4 million of accrued interest 2010: US$127.0 million.
At 31 March 2011, the Company had loan of US$892 million 2010: US$892 million, US$500 million 2010: US$500 million, US$500 million 2010: US$350 million and US$16.3 million 2010: nil receivable from Richter, Welter, KCM and TMHL respectively and US$32.3 million of other amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 2010: US$30.4 million.
Company Current Asset Investments 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Bank term deposits 261.0 197.6 Short-term unit trusts and liquid funds 1.0 1.5 Total 262.0 199.1 Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 147 49.
Company Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Trade creditors 1.7 44.2 Accruals and deferred income 32.0 33.8 External borrowings 370.6 186.2 Loan from subsidiary 188.4 180.4 Total 592.7 444.6 The loan from ICICI Bank of US$186.2 million was repaid on its due date in June 2010.
The external borrowings above represent a loan taken from Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd BTMU at an interest rate of USD LIBOR plus 425 basis points.
The loan is short-term and repayable in July 2011.
Company Creditors: Amounts Falling Due After One Year 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$ million US$ million Loan from subsidiary 1,669.4 1,224.9 Bond and loans 2,420.4 2,592.7 Derivative liability 12.1 Total 4,089.8 3,829.7 Loans from subsidiaries include a loan of US$981.2 million from VRJL relating to its issue of US$1.25 billion convertible bonds bond issued in July 2009 and of US$688.2 million from VRJL-II related to its issue of US$883 million convertible bond bond issued in March 2010.
During 2011, interest was charged at the effective interest rate of 11.22% and interest rate of 9.79% respectively.
In December 2010 the Company obtained a loan from ICICI Bank for US$180 million at an interest rate of three month GBP LIBOR plus 385 basis points.
Out of this US$90 million is repayable in December 2014 and remaining US$90 million is repayable in December 2015.
Company Reconciliation of Movement in Equity Shareholders Funds Share-based Share premium payment Convertible Profit and loss Share capital account reserve bond reserve Treasury Shares account Other reserves Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Equity shareholders funds at 1 April 2010 29.6 196.8 25.6 305.9 428.9 630.3 1.8 757.5 Profit for the year 212.7 212.7 Dividends paid 129.9 129.9 Issue of convertible bond 211.6 211.6 Exercise of LTIP awards 0.1 23.5 23.5 0.1 Recognition of share-based payments 18.4 18.4 Convertible bond reserve transfer 64.2 64.2 Movement in fair value of financial investments Note 43 Purchase of Treasury Shares 61.7 61.7 Equity shareholders funds at 31 March 2011 29.7 196.8 20.5 453.3 490.6 800.8 1.8 1,008.7 52.
The Company has guaranteed US$1,250 million convertible bonds issued by VRJL 2010: US$1,250 million.
See Note 27 to the Group financial statements for further details on the convertible bonds.
The Company has given corporate guarantee to Vedanta Aluminium Ltd for an amount of US$3,310 million up to 31 March 2011. c. The Company also has issued other guarantees of US$220 million supplied to concentrate suppliers.
d. The Company has given corporate guarantee to Konkola Copper Mines for an amount of US$400 million up to 31 March 2011. e. The Company has guaranteed US$883 million convertible bonds issued by VRJL-II 2010: US$883 million.
Company Share-based Payment The Company had certain LTIP awards outstanding as at 31 March 2011.
See Note 31 to the Group financial statements for further details on these share-based payments.
