Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the nineteenth Annual General Meeting AGM of Victrex plc the Company will be held at 11am on 7 February 2012, at the Andaz Hotel, Liverpool Street, London, EC2M 7QN, to transact the following business: Ordinary business 1.
To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2011.
To receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2011, together with the reports of the Directors and the auditor.
T o approve the payment of a final dividend of 24.5p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of 1p in respect of the year ended 30 September 2011.
To elect Dr P J Kirby who, having been appointed as a Director after the last AGM of the Company, retires and offers herself for election.
T o elect Mr A S Barrow who, having been appointed as a Director after the last AGM of the Company, retires and offers himself for election.
To reelect Ms A M Frew as a Director of the Company.
To reelect Mr G F B Kerr as a Director of the Company.
To reelect Mr P J M fide Smedt as a Director of the Company.
To reelect Mr L C Pentz as a Director of the Company.
To reelect Mr D R Hummel as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: 12.
That the Board be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company: a up to a nominal amount of 280,122: and b up to a further nominal amount of 280,122 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii t o holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter.
Such authorities to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 7 May 2013 but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority ends and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as special resolutions: 13.
T hat, conditional upon resolution 12 being passed, the Board be and hereby is given power to allot equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act for cash under the authority given by that resolution and or where the allotment is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560 2 b of the 2006 Act, free of the restriction in section 561 1 of the 2006 Act, such power to be limited: a t o the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but, in the case of the authority granted under paragraph b of resolution 12, by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii t o holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and b in the case of the authority granted under paragraph a of resolution 12 and or in the case of any transfer of treasury shares which is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560 3 of the 2006 Act, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a above of equity securities up to a nominal amount of 42,018.
Su ch power to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 7 May 2013 but during this period the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
That the Company be and is hereby authorised generally and unconditionally to make one or more market purchases as defined in section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of its ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, such power to be limited: a to a maximum number of 8,403,673 Ordinary Shares: b by the condition that the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share contracted to be purchased on any day shall be the higher of: i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and ii t he higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out: and c by the condition that the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 1p exclusive of expenses.
Such power to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 7 May 2013 but so that the Company may enter into a new contract under which a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the authority ends and the Company may purchase Ordinary Shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority had not ended.
That a general meeting of the Company, other than an AGM, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board G M Hulme Company Secretary 5 December 2011 www.
com 79 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1.
M embers are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Annual Report.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be lodged with the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, not less than 48 hours before the start of the AGM or any adjournment thereof.
T he return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 9 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
T he statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
T o be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6pm on 5 February 2012 or, in the event of any adjournment, 6pm on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As at 2 December 2011 being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 84,036,737 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 2 December 2011 are 84,036,737.
There are no shares in treasury.
C REST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
I n order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent Equiniti ID RA19 by 11am on 5 February 2012.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10.
C REST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
T he Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Under section 527 of the 2006 Act members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a t he audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 2006 Act.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
A ny member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
com 81 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes continued 14.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the 2006 Act, can be found at www.
Under section 338 and section 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: a t o give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 27 December 2011, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the general meeting.
Please contact our Registrar if you need any further guidance on this.
Y ou may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice of General Meeting or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company from the date of this notice until the time of the AGM and at the meeting location from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends: the executive Directors service contracts: letters of appointment of the nonexecutive Directors: deeds of indemnity in favour of the Directors: and the Articles of Association.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Explanatory Notes Ordinary business Resolution 1 Approval of the Report on Directors Remuneration This resolution is proposed to approve the Report on Directors Remuneration as set out on pages 34 to 41.
Resolution 2 Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are under a duty in relation to each financial year to lay the Accounts and reports of the Directors and auditor before the Company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend A final dividend of 24.5p per ordinary share payable on 24 February 2012 has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2011.
In accordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
Resolutions 4 to 10 Reelection of Directors In accordance with the Articles of Association Dr P J Kirby and Mr A S Barrow who were appointed as nonexecutive Director and Director respectively after the last Annual General Meeting of the Company are required to retire.
They will, however, seek election by the shareholders.
Additionally, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 all Directors offer themselves for reelection at the AGM.
Biographical details of all of our Directors are set out on pages 22 and 23.
The Board considers each nonexecutive Director to be independent and confirms that, following formal evaluation as referred to on page 26, they each continue to contribute effectively to the Board and to demonstrate commitment to their roles including commitment of time for Board and Board Committee meetings.
Resolution 11 Reappointment of auditor auditors remuneration This resolution proposes the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and authorises the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special business Resolution 12 Authority to allot shares The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this resolution seeks authority for the Directors to issue shares until the conclusion of next years AGM of the Company or 7 May 2013, if sooner.
In accordance with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, the proposed authority will allow the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares up to an amount equal to less than one third of the existing share capital, plus in the case of a rights issue only a further amount up to an additional one third of the Companys existing issued share capital.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
Resolution 13 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders When shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
This resolution will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash up to a nominal amount of 42,018, representing approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital, other than to existing shareholders in order to take advantage of opportunities as and when they arise.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority and confirm their intention that not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be allotted on a non preemptive basis in any rolling three year period, in compliance with the guidelines issued by investors bodies.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the next AGM of the Company or 7 May 2013, if sooner.
com 83 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Explanatory Notes continued Special business continued Resolution 14 Authority to purchase own shares In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 14 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired less than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this Notice and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase will be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, or be held as treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, resold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
As at 2 December 2011, options over a total of 1,420,412 Ordinary Shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of Ordinary Shares represents 1.69% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at 2 December 2011.
It would represent 1.88% of the issued Ordinary Share capital if the authority to buy the Companys own shares had been used in full at that date.
Resolution 15 Authority to hold general meetings other than annual AGMs on 14 clear days notice This resolution is required to reflect the changes made to the 2006 Act by the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
The Shareholders Rights Regulations increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Prior to the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice and would like to maintain this ability.
In order to be able to do so the Companys shareholders must approve the calling of such meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The Company undertakes to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Shareholders Rights Regulations before calling a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Recommendation The Directors consider that all the proposed resolutions set out in this Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and of its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings of shares in the Company.
