Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies General information Victrex plc the Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its Registered Office is Victrex Technology Centre, Hillhouse International, Thornton Cleveleys, Lancashire, FY5 4QD, United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 5 December 2011.
Basis of preparation Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU endorsed IFRS and on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are measured at their fair value.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Business Review on pages 6 to 21.
In addition, note 15 on financial risk management details the Groups exposure to a variety of financial risks, including currency and credit risk.
The Group has significant positive cash balances and has a committed bank facility of 40m which expires in 2012.
This facility was undrawn at 30 September 2011 and remained undrawn at 5 December 2011 when these consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors.
Based on the above and a review of the Groups budgets and forecasts, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and hence have continued to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
On publishing the Company financial statements here together with the consolidated financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of section 408 Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of the approved financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with endorsed IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Details of significant estimates and assumptions are set out in note 24.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied by Group entities.
