Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24.
Accounting estimates and judgements continued Hedging Group hedging policy is to defer the impact on profits of currency movements by hedging a proportion of projected transaction exposures.
Forward exchange contracts are used to manage the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
These forward contracts are entered into on the basis of forecasts of future trading and the valuation of these contracts is calculated using forward exchange market rates.
Pension scheme The valuation of pension scheme liabilities is calculated in accordance with Group policy.
The valuation is prepared by independent qualified actuaries but significant judgements are required in relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, inflation, the discount rate applied, investment returns and member longevity which underpin the valuations.
Note 16 contains information about the assumptions relating to retirement benefit obligations.
Sharebased payments The charge for sharebased payment transactions is calculated in accordance with Group policy.
The option valuation models used require subjective assumptions to be made including the future volatility of the Groups share price, expected dividend yields, riskfree interest rates and expected staff turnover.
The Directors draw upon a variety of external sources to aid the determination of the appropriate data to use in such calculations.
Note 18 contains information about the assumptions relating to sharebased payment transactions.
Property, plant and equipment In relation to the Companys property, plant and equipment, useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been established using historical experience and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved.
Assets are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to a potential impairment of the carrying value of such assets.
No circumstances have been identified to suggest that this is the case.
Goodwill Goodwill is reviewed annually to assess the requirement for impairment.
Other intangible assets are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to the conclusion that the carrying value of such assets is not supportable.
Impairment testing on goodwill is carried out as described in note 10.
Such calculations require judgement relating to the appropriate discount factors and longterm growth prevalent in particular markets as well as shortterm business performance.
The Directors also draw upon experience in making these judgements.
Note 10 contains information about the assumptions relating to impairment testing.
Exchange rates The most significant Sterling exchange rates used in the accounts under the Groups accounting policies are: 2011 2010 Average Closing Average Closing US Dollar 1.57 1.56 1.58 1.58 Euro 1.16 1.16 1.15 1.15 Yen 135 120 153 132 76 www.
