Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies General information Victrex plc the Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its Registered Office is Victrex Technology Centre, Hillhouse International, Thornton Cleveleys, Lancashire, FY5 4QD, United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 5 December 2011.
Basis of preparation Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU endorsed IFRS and on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are measured at their fair value.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Business Review on pages 6 to 21.
In addition, note 15 on financial risk management details the Groups exposure to a variety of financial risks, including currency and credit risk.
The Group has significant positive cash balances and has a committed bank facility of 40m which expires in 2012.
This facility was undrawn at 30 September 2011 and remained undrawn at 5 December 2011 when these consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors.
Based on the above and a review of the Groups budgets and forecasts, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and hence have continued to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
On publishing the Company financial statements here together with the consolidated financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of section 408 Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of the approved financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with endorsed IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Details of significant estimates and assumptions are set out in note 24.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied by Group entities.
com 49 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Basis of preparation continued A number of new standards and amendments to existing standards were effective for the financial year ended 30 September 2011.
The effect of adopting the new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations which were mandatory for the first time for the year ended 30 September 2011 was the incorporation of an amendment to IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The principal effect of this amendment is that segmental assets and liabilities are no longer presented so as to be consistent with the level of detail regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, the Victrex plc Board.
A number of standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued and endorsed by the EU, but which are not yet effective and accordingly the Group has not yet adopted.
The cumulative impact of the adoption of these standards is not expected to be significant.
Effective for the Groups financial year ending 30 September 2012: Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: Improvements to IFRSs 2010: Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments, Disclosures: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: and Amendment to IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting.
Amendments to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on Defined Benefit Assets, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
Effective for the Groups financial year ending 30 September 2013: Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets.
Effective for the Groups financial year ending 30 September 2014: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Investments In the Companys accounts, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any impairment in the value of the investment.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered in assessing control.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Segment reporting The Group complies with IFRS 8 Operating Segments which requires operating segments to be identified and reported upon that are consistent with the level at which results are regularly reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker for the Group is the Victrex plc Board.
Information on the business units is the primary basis of information reported to the Victrex plc Board and this is reflected in the segmental information in note 2.
The performance of the business units is assessed based on segmental operating profit.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operated the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the retranslation to balance sheet date exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which have the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses for each income statement are translated at weighted average exchange rates: and all resulting exchange differences, from 1 October 2004, are recognised as a separate component of equity.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risks.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivatives are recognised at fair value.
The method of recognising any gain or loss on remeasurement of fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
For derivatives not used in hedging transactions, the gain or loss on remeasurement of fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
com 51 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities continued Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective portion of changes in fair value is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Fair value estimation The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment Owned assets All owned items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
The cost of self constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Leased assets Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives as follows: Buildings 30 years Plant and machinery 1030 years Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 5 years Computers and motor vehicles 35 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed annually for continued appropriateness and indications of impairment, and adjusted if appropriate.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount.
These are included in the income statement.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Any impairment provisions that arose during impairment testing would not be reversed.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded previously under UK GAAP.
In respect of acquisitions that have occurred since 1 October 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred unless it meets all the criteria to be capitalised under IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Should any impairment provisions arise during annual impairment testing, these would also be deducted from the carrying value of other intangible assets.
Other intangible assets are tested annually for impairment, to the extent that they are considered to have an indefinite useful economic life.
Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis in order to allocate the cost over the estimated useful economic lives as follows: Knowhow 10 years The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed annually for continued appropriateness and impairment, and adjusted if appropriate.
Impairment The carrying amount of the Groups nonfinancial assets, other than inventories and current and deferred tax, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, then the recoverable amounts of the relevant assets are determined.
Goodwill Goodwill is tested annually for impairment by reference to the estimated future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit CGU, discounted to their present value using risk adjusted discount factors to give its value in use.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that are largely independent from other assets and groups.
Impairment losses are recognised if the carrying amount of the CGU to which goodwill has been allocated exceeds its value in use and are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit or group of units on a pro rata basis.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Other assets For other assets subject to impairment reviews, an impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
com 53 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on the firstin, firstout principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads allocated based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, call deposits and other shortterm highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
Income tax Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries except to the extent that they will probably reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the amounts receivable for the sale of goods and services, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
No revenue is recognised if there is significant uncertainty regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated costs or the possible return of goods.
Rebates are accounted for as sales are made throughout the period.
Volume rebates are accrued based on the maximum amount due to customers based on annualised sales, unless it is clear that rebate conditions will not be met in a particular period.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and it has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows.
Net financing income and expense Net financing income and expense comprises interest payable on borrowings, interest received on funds invested and charges on bank loans and overdrafts.
Grants Grants related to income are deducted in reporting the related expense.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Employee benefits Defined contribution pension schemes Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit pension schemes The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the future benefits that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs not yet recognised.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
In order to calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements that apply.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised in the profit or loss on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised in profit or loss.
Victrex has decided to take advantage of the option under IAS 19 Employee Benefits to recognise actuarial gains and losses through the statement of comprehensive income as opposed to the income statement.
Ongoing actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in full through the statement of comprehensive income.
Sharebased payment transactions and employee share ownership trusts ESOT The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
Sharebased payment transactions are recharged from the Company to those subsidiaries benefiting from the service of the employees to whom options are granted.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any nonmarket vesting conditions.
Nonmarket vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest and include employee service periods and performance targets which are not related to the Companys share price, such as earnings per share growth.
The fair value of the options is measured by the Stochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
At each balance sheet date the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
Any failure to meet market conditions, which includes performance targets such as share price or Total Shareholder Return, would not result in a reversal of original estimates in the income statement.
The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
The Group and Company provide finance to the ESOT to purchase Company shares in the open market.
Costs of running the ESOT are charged to the income statement.
The cost of shares held by the ESOT are deducted in arriving at equity until they are exercised by employees.
