Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23.
Related party transactions Identity of related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and so are only disclosed for the Companys accounts.
Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Trading transactions with subsidiaries Administrative expenses paid on Companys behalf by subsidiaries 0.5 0.5 Management charge to subsidiaries 2.3 2.3 Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 54.4 30.7 Financing transactions with subsidiaries Dividends received from subsidiaries 83.1 3.1 Cash transfers received from subsidiaries 10.1 17.5 Cash transfers made to subsidiaries 31.5 6.3 Noncurrent amounts receivable from subsidiaries 20.7 The Groups postemployment plans are related parties and the Groups and Companys transactions with them are disclosed in note 16.
Details of transactions during the year relating to the Companys investments in subsidiaries can be found in note 11.
Details of loan balances between the Company and its subsidiaries can be found in note 15.
Transactions with key management personnel The key management of the Group and Company consists of the Board of Directors.
Details of Directors remuneration, including noncash benefits and contributions to postemployment defined benefit plans, are given in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 34 to 41.
Directors of the Company control 4% of the voting shares of the Company, details of which are given on page 39.
Details of Directors indemnities are given on page 33.
Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
These estimates and assumptions form the basis for making judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
