12 Vodafone Group Plc 2011 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Further shareholder information Shareholder attendance, enquiries and information Shareholders considering the appointment of a corporate representative are recommended to check their legal position and also view the Companys If you can attend Articles of Association available on www.
You will find it helpful to bring this booklet with you to the Annual General Corporate representatives seeking to attend the Annual General Meeting Meeting so that you can refer to it at the meeting.
are recommended to pre-register with the Registrars and then arrive at the registration desks in good time before the start of the meeting, particularly A map and directions to the meeting venue can be found opposite.
On if representing a number of different holdings.
Typically, this might need to arrival, you should go to the shareholder registration desks in the foyer.
be at least 30 minutes before the start of the meeting.
Please bring your admission card, attached to the Form of Proxy enclosed with this booklet if received in hard copy or a copy of the email notification Registrars shareholder enquiries of this booklet if we communicate with you electronically, as this will The Companys ordinary share register is maintained by: greatly assist with the registration formalities.
Computershare Investor Services PLC Tea and coffee will be available from 10.00 a. m. The Pavilions Bridgwater Road For your personal safety and security there may be checks and bag searches Bristol of those attending the meeting.
It is recommended that you arrive a little BS99 6ZZ England early to allow time for these procedures.
Recording equipment, cameras Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 and other items that might interfere with the good order of the meeting will Fax: 44 0 870 703 6116 not be permitted in the venue.
co. uk contactus Shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions relating to the Holders of ordinary shares who are resident in Ireland can contact the business of the meeting.
Before and after the meeting there will be a Companys Registrars directly at: designated Customer Service area for shareholders who have questions which relate to them as customers.
In addition, there will be a Shareholder Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited Helpdesk to deal with any administrative enquiries that you may have P. O.
Dublin 18 Ireland If you cannot attend Telephone: 0818 300999 The Annual General Meeting will be webcast live on the Companys website www.
com agm and subsequently a recording will be available on the website.
For information on how to view the webcast, visit the website at Any queries about the Annual General Meeting should be directed to the any time from the date of this Notice.
Companys Registrars as detailed above.
In order to vote your shares on the Resolutions, you need to register your Dividend payments by direct credit proxy appointment and instructions, which you can do in a number of ways, The Company pays cash dividends to holders of ordinary shares by direct detailed below.
You are encouraged to choose electronic proxy appointment credit only.
In order to receive dividends directly into your account, you and instructions.
should ensure that your payment instructions are registered with our Registrars see Manage your shareholding online below.
The methods available are: Manage your shareholding online by visiting our website, www.
com agm and following the Holders of ordinary shares may view and update details of their shareholding Vote Online link.
Please ensure you have your Shareholder Reference and dividend payment instructions, subject to passing an identity check, on Number SRN, PIN and Control Number to hand.
These are shown on the the Registrars website at www.
You will need your 10 Form of Proxy or the email notification of this booklet if we communicate digit Shareholder Reference Number which starts with the letter C or G and with you electronically : is printed on the Form of Proxy or email notification of this booklet if we by completing, dating and signing the Form of Proxy and returning it in communicate with you electronically.
the addressed envelope: or by submitting a CREST message, if you are a CREST member.
Please see Electronic addresses note 9 on the Form of Proxy for details.
Electronic addresses provided in this Notice of Annual General Meeting and the Form of Proxy are provided only for those purposes expressly stated.
All proxy appointments and instructions, by whichever method you choose, must be received by our Registrars by not later than 11.00 a. m. on Friday, Annual Report 22 July 2011.
The Companys 2011 Annual Report is available online at www.
The report, and its individual sections, are also available If you appoint a proxy, this will not prevent you from attending the Annual as PDFs for download and printing.
Hard copies of the 2011 Annual General Meeting in person, should you choose to do so.
Report are available from Investor Relations on ir@vodafone.
Proxies and corporate representatives A shareholder that is a company or other organisation not having a physical presence cannot attend in person and must therefore appoint someone to represent it.
Company law provides for two alternative methods by which this can be done: the appointment of a proxy described above or a corporate representative.
