Financials Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 87 Revenue Inventory Revenue is recognised to the extent the Group has delivered goods or Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is rendered services under an agreement, the amount of revenue can be determined on the basis of weighted average costs and comprises direct measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits associated materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Revenue is measured at the fair that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location value of the consideration received, exclusive of sales taxes and discounts.
The Group principally obtains revenue from providing the following Leasing telecommunication services: access charges, airtime usage, messaging, Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease interconnect fees, data services and information provision, connection fees transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to and equipment sales.
Products and services may be sold separately or in the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at Revenue for access charges, airtime usage and messaging by contract their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value customers is recognised as services are performed, with unbilled revenue of the minimum lease payments as determined at the inception of the lease.
resulting from services already provided accrued at the end of each period The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the statement of and unearned revenue from services to be provided in future periods financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such time apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
Revenue from interconnect fees is recognised at the time the services are performed.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Revenue from data services and information provision is recognised when Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating the Group has performed the related service and, depending on the nature lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
of the service, is recognised either at the gross amount billed to the customer or the amount receivable by the Group as commission for Foreign currencies facilitating the service.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the parent companys functional and presentation currency.
Each entity Customer connection revenue is recognised together with the related in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included equipment revenue to the extent that the aggregate equipment and in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that connection revenue does not exceed the fair value of the equipment functional currency.
Any customer connection revenue not recognised together with related equipment revenue is deferred and Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional recognised over the period in which services are expected to be provided to currency rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and the customer.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the respective functional currency of the entity at the rates prevailing on the Revenue for device sales is recognised when the device is delivered to the reporting period date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are end customer and the sale is considered complete.
For device sales made denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on to intermediaries, revenue is recognised if the significant risks associated the initial transaction dates.
Non-monetary items measured in terms of with the device are transferred to the intermediary and the intermediary has historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
no general right of return.
If the significant risks are not transferred, revenue recognition is deferred until sale of the device to an end customer by the Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign intermediary or the expiry of the right of return.
currency classified as available-for-sale are analysed between translation differences and other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the Translation differences are recognised in the income statement and other arrangements are divided into separate units of accounting.
Deliverables are changes in carrying amount are recognised in equity.
considered separate units of accounting if the following two conditions are met: 1 the deliverable has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets, such as 2 there is evidence of the fair value of the item.
The arrangement investments in equity securities, classified as available-for-sale are reported consideration is allocated to each separate unit of accounting based on its as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets Commissions and liabilities of entities with a functional currency other than sterling are Intermediaries are given cash incentives by the Group to connect new expressed in sterling using exchange rates prevailing at the reporting period customers and upgrade existing customers.
Income and expense items and cash flows are translated at the average exchange rates for the period and exchange differences arising are For intermediaries who do not purchase products and services from the recognised directly in equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the cumulative Group, such cash incentives are accounted for as an expense.
Such cash amount previously recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign incentives to other intermediaries are also accounted for as an expense if: operation is recognised in profit or loss.
the Group receives an identifiable benefit in exchange for the cash Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign incentive that is separable from sales transactions to that operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and intermediary: and translated accordingly.
the Group can reliably estimate the fair value of that benefit.
In respect of all foreign operations, any exchange differences that have Cash incentives that do not meet these criteria are recognised as a reduction arisen before 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are deemed to be of the related revenue.
nil and will be excluded from the determination of any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
