84 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on its results, financial position and cash flows.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The consolidated financial statements are also The Group has not adopted the following pronouncements, which have prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union EU, the been issued by the IASB or the IFRIC.
These pronouncements have been Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
endorsed for use in the EU, unless otherwise stated.
The Group does not currently believe the adoption of these pronouncements will have a The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires material impact on the consolidated results, financial position or cash flows management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported of the Group.
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts Amendments to IFRS 1, Severe hyperinflation and removal of fixed dates of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
For a discussion on for first-timer adopters, effective for annual periods beginning on or after the Groups critical accounting estimates see Critical accounting estimates 1 July 2011.
This standard has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosure, effective for estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
This standard has not Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period Improvements to IFRSs, effective over a range of dates, with the earliest of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and being for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. future periods.
Amendment to IFRS 1, Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 disclosures for first time adopters, effective for annual periods beginning Amounts in the consolidated financial statements are stated in on or after 1 July 2010. pounds sterling.
Amendment to IAS 12, Deferred tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
This Vodafone Group Plc is registered in England No.
1833679. standard has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
Amendment to IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures State-controlled 2.
Significant accounting policies Entities and the Definition of a Related Party, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
Accounting convention Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments on a Minimum Funding The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis Requirement, effective for annual periods beginning on or after except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured 1 January 2011. at fair value.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 with early New accounting pronouncements adopted adoption permitted.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations The Group adopted IFRS 3 Revised on 1 April 2010.
The revised standard The Group has also not adopted the following pronouncements, all of which introduces changes in the accounting for business combinations that were issued by the IASB on 12 May 2011 and which are effective for annual impacts the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
These pronouncements have period that a business combination occurs and future reported results.
The not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The Group has not completed its adoption of this standard is likely to have a significant impact on the Groups assessment of the impact of these pronouncements on the consolidated accounting for future business combinations.
results, financial position or cash flows of the Group.
However, the Group currently expects that IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, will have a material Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial impact on the presentation of the Groups interests in its joint ventures Statements owing to the Groups significant investments in joint ventures as discussed The Group adopted the amendment to IAS 27 on 1 April 2010.
The in note 13. amendment requires that when a transaction occurs with non-controlling interests in Group entities that do not result in a change in control, the IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, which replaces parts of IAS difference between the consideration paid or received and the recorded 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and all of SIC-12, non-controlling interest should be recognised in equity.
In cases where Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, builds on existing principles by control is lost, any retained interest should be remeasured to fair value with identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an the difference between fair value and the previous carrying value being entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of recognised immediately in the income statement.
The adoption of this the parent company.
The remainder of IAS 27, Separate Financial standard may have a significant impact on the Groups accounting for future Statements, now contains accounting and disclosure requirements for transactions involving non-controlling interests.
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates only when an entity prepares separate financial statements and is therefore not The adoption of this standard has resulted in a change in presentation within applicable in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
the statement of cash flows of amounts paid to acquire non-controlling IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, which replaces IAS 31, Interests in Joint interests in Group entities that do not result in a change in control.
In the year Ventures and SIC-13, Jointly Controlled Entities Non-monetary ended 31 March 2011 137 million related to such transactions was Contributions by Venturers, requires a single method, known as the classified as Other transactions with non-controlling shareholders in equity method, to account for interests in jointly controlled entities which subsidiaries within Net cash flows from financing activities, whereas these is consistent with the accounting treatment currently applied to amounts would have previously been recorded in Purchase of interests in investments in associates.
The proportionate consolidation method subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash acquired within Cash flows from currently applied to the Groups interests in joint ventures is prohibited.
There is no material impact in the comparative period.
IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, was amended as a consequence of the issuance of IFRS 11.
In addition to prescribing the New accounting pronouncements not yet adopted accounting for investment in associates, it now sets out the requirements Phase I of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in November 2009 and for the application of the equity method when accounting for joint is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The application of the equity method has not changed as a standard has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The standard result of this amendment.
introduces changes to the classification and measurement of financial IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities, is a new and assets and the requirements relating to financial liabilities in relation to the comprehensive standard on disclosure requirements for all forms of presentation of changes in fair value due to credit risks and the removal of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, an exemption from measuring certain derivative liabilities at fair value.
The special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
