10 Vodafone Group Plc 2011 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Business of the Annual General Meeting The purpose of each of the Resolutions proposed at the Annual General At 18 May 2011, the Company held 5,486,999,231 treasury shares which Meeting is as follows: represents 10.69 per cent of the total number of ordinary shares in issue, excluding treasury shares, at that date.
Resolution 1 Financial statements The first item of business is the requirement for shareholders to receive the There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares Companys accounts for the financial year which ended on 31 March 2011 other than to fulfil the Companys obligations under its executive and together with the reports of the directors and the auditor.
The directors consider it desirable to have the maximum flexibility permitted by corporate governance guidelines to Resolutions 2 to 15 Retirement and re-election election respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to of directors finance business opportunities as they arise.
If the directors exercised this Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors are required authority then all the directors would submit themselves for re-election by to retire and submit themselves for re-election every three years.
the shareholders at the following Annual General Meeting as indeed they Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles of Association, in the interests do each year in the interests of good corporate governance.
of good corporate governance, the directors have resolved that, each year, they will all retire voluntarily and those wishing to serve again shall submit If Resolution 20 is passed, this authority will expire on the earlier of the end themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
In addition, Gerard Kleisterlee of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012 or 30 September 2012. and Renee James were appointed to the Board during the year and submit themselves for election by the shareholders for the first time.
Subject to his Resolution 21 Disapplication of pre-emption rights election by shareholders, Gerard Kleisterlee will become Chairman in Resolution 21 is proposed as a Special Resolution.
succession to Sir John Bond who will retire from the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with an employee share Following the outcome of the Board evaluation process, the Nominations scheme, company law requires that these shares are offered first to and Governance Committee has concluded that each director makes an shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
effective and valuable contribution to the meetings of the Board and the Committees on which they sit and that they demonstrate commitment to The purpose of paragraph 21.1 is to authorise the directors to allot new their roles, as detailed in the Directors Report.
Biographical details of all the shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph 20.1 of Resolution 20, directors who are proposed for re-election election are set out in the or sell treasury shares, for cash a in connection with a pre-emptive offer or Companys Annual Report and are also available for viewing on the rights issue or b otherwise up to a nominal value of US$324,635,375, Companys website www.
equivalent to 5 per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 18 May 2011, in each case without the shares first being Resolution 16 Final dividend offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This Resolution seeks shareholder approval for the final ordinary dividend recommended by the directors.
The directors are proposing a final dividend The purpose of paragraph 21.2 is to authorise the directors to allot new of 6.05 pence per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 2.85 pence per shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph 20.2 of Resolution 20, ordinary share was paid on 4 February 2011, making a total dividend for or sell treasury shares, for cash in connection with a rights issue without the the year of 8.90 pence per ordinary share.
If approved, the final dividend shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their will be paid on 5 August 2011 to shareholders on the ordinary register on existing holdings.
This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
The Board considers the authority in Resolution 21 to be appropriate in Resolution 17 Remuneration Report order to allow the Company flexibility to finance business opportunities or In accordance with Section 439 of the 2006 Act, the Board submits the to conduct a pre-emptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply Remuneration Report to a vote of shareholders.
The Remuneration Report with the requirements of the statutory pre-emption provisions.
is available to view in the Annual Report at www.
com investor and a brief summary can be found on page 6 of this document.
The Board intends to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles not to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive Resolutions 18 and 19 Auditor basis other than pursuant to a rights issue or pre-emptive offer in excess The Company is required to appoint the auditor at each general meeting at of an amount equal to 7.5 per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital which accounts are presented, to hold office until the end of the next such of the Company within a rolling 3-year period without prior consultation meeting.
Resolution 18, which is recommended by the Audit Committee, with shareholders.
proposes the re-appointment of the Companys existing auditor, Deloitte LLP.
Resolution 19 follows best practice in corporate governance by Resolution 22 Approval of market purchases of ordinary shares separately seeking authority for the Audit Committee to determine the Resolution 22 is proposed as a Special Resolution.
In certain circumstances it may be advantageous for the Company to Resolution 20 Authority to allot shares purchase its own shares.
Resolution 22 renews the authority granted to the The purpose of Resolution 20 is to renew the directors power to allot shares.
Company to purchase up to 5,132,419,152 ordinary shares until the Annual General Meeting in 2012 or 30 September 2012, whichever is earlier.
This The authority in paragraph 20.1 will allow the directors to allot new shares represents 10 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue as at 18 May 2011 and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares up excluding shares held in treasury and the Companys exercise of this to a nominal value of US$1,955,207,296, which is equivalent to approximately authority is subject to the stated upper and lower limits on the price payable.
33 per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, as at 18 May 2011.
Similar resolutions have been approved by shareholders at previous Annual General Meetings of the Company.
In the period from 16 September 2010 The authority in paragraph 20.2 will allow the directors to allot new shares to 18 May 2011 the Company purchased 1,499,989,519 shares for an and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares only amount totalling 2,580,189,109 including costs in accordance with the in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal value of approval given at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, as part of the US$1,955,207,296, which is equivalent to approximately 33 per cent of the 2.8 billion share buyback programme following the sale of a 3.2 per cent total issued ordinary share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury interest in China Mobile Limited.
On 3 April 2011, the Company announced shares, as at 18 May 2011.
its intention to make further market purchases of up to 4 billion of shares.
Vodafone Group Plc 2011 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting 11 Pursuant to the 2006 Act, the Company can hold the shares which have been repurchased as treasury shares and resell them for cash or cancel them, either immediately or at a point in the future, or use them for the purposes of its employee share schemes.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to have this choice and therefore intend to hold any shares purchased under this authority as treasury shares.
Holding the repurchased shares as treasury shares will give the Company the ability to resell, transfer or cancel them in the future, and so provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends are paid on and no voting rights attach to treasury shares.
Any treasury shares sold by the Company will count towards the number of shares which, if Resolution 21 is passed, may be issued without first offering them to existing shareholders.
As the existing shareholder approval to purchase shares expires at the Annual General Meeting on 26 July 2011, purchases after that date are subject to renewed shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board will use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company.
The Board will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share excluding items not related to underlying business performance and the benefit for shareholders.
The total number of warrants and options to subscribe for shares issued by the Company outstanding at 18 May 2011 was 157,571,028.
This represents 0.31 per cent of the issued share capital at that date excluding treasury shares.
If the Company was to purchase the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this Resolution, then the total number of warrants and options to subscribe for shares issued by the Company outstanding at 18 May 2011 would represent 0.34 per cent of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Resolution 23 Notice of general meetings Resolution 23 is proposed as a Special Resolution.
Changes made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless certain requirements are satisfied.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice without obtaining shareholder approval.
The Company would like to preserve this ability, as it did at its last Annual General Meeting.
In order to be able to do so, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The approval will be effective until the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012.
It is intended that this authority will be sought on an annual basis.
The shorter notice period of 14 clear days will not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The Company meets the requirements for electronic voting under the Shareholders Rights Regulations in order to be able to call a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
Your directors are recommending that shareholders vote FOR Resolutions 1 to 23 as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
