Financials Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 89 Capital market and bank borrowings The Group recognises the cost of writing such put options, determined as Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value the excess of the fair value of the option over any consideration received, as which is equal to cost at inception, and are subsequently measured at a financing cost.
amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between Such options are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the the proceeds net of transaction costs and the amount due on settlement or effective interest rate method, in order to accrete the liability up to the redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
amount payable under the option at the date at which it first becomes exercisable.
The charge arising is recorded as a financing cost.
In the event Equity instruments that the option expires unexercised, the liability is derecognised with a Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds corresponding adjustment to equity.
received, net of direct issuance costs.
Provisions Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be exchange rates and interest rates.
required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting by the Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Changes in values of all derivatives of a financing nature are included within Share-based payments investment income and financing costs in the income statement.
The Group The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled contract date and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting reporting date.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges : or Fair value is measured using a binomial pricing model, being a lattice-based hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
option valuation model, which is calibrated using a Black-Scholes framework.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
or the Company chooses to end the hedging relationship.
The Group uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee Fair value hedges termination within the valuation model: separate groups of employees that The Groups policy is to use derivative instruments primarily interest rate have similar historical exercise behaviour are considered separately for swaps to convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to floating rates in order valuation purposes.
The expected life of options granted is derived from the to hedge the interest rate risk arising, principally, from capital market output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that borrowings.
The Group designates these as fair value hedges of interest options are expected to be outstanding.
Expected volatilities are based on rate risk with changes in fair value of the hedging instrument recognised in implied volatilities as determined by a simple average of no less than three the income statement for the period together with the changes in the fair international banks, excluding the highest and lowest numbers.
The risk-free value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk, to the extent the hedge rates for periods within the contractual life of the option are based on the UK is effective.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the gilt yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
Some share awards have an attached market condition, based on total Net investment hedges shareholder return TSR, which is taken into account when calculating the Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in fair value of the share awards.
The valuation for the TSR is based on foreign operations are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses on Vodafones ranking within the same group of companies, where possible, those hedging instruments which include bonds, commercial paper and over the past five years.
The volatility of the ranking over a three year period foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges of the net investments is used to determine the probable weighted percentage number of shares in foreign operations are recognised in equity to the extent that the hedging that could be expected to vest and hence affect fair value.
These amounts are included in exchange differences on translation of foreign operations as stated in the statement The fair value of awards of non-vested shares is equal to the closing price of of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses relating to hedge ineffectiveness the Vodafones shares on the date of grant, adjusted for the present value of are recognised immediately in the income statement for the period.
Gains future dividend entitlements where appropriate.
and losses accumulated in the translation reserve are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Put option arrangements The potential cash payments related to put options issued by the Group over the equity of subsidiary companies are accounted for as financial liabilities when such options may only be settled other than by exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of shares in the subsidiary.
The amount that may become payable under the option on exercise is initially recognised at fair value within borrowings with a corresponding charge directly to equity.
The charge to equity is recognised separately as written put options over non-controlling interests, adjacent to non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries.
