Governance Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 63 Reward philosophy Current levels of ownership and the date by which the goal should be or was required to be achieved are as shown below: The principles of reward, as well as the individual elements of the reward Value of package, are reviewed each year to ensure that they continue to support our Goal as a Current % shareholding Date for goal company strategy.
These principles are set out below.
1 1 % of salary of salary held m to be achieved Vittorio Colao 400% 460% 4.9 July 2012 Competitive reward assessed on a total compensation basis Andy Halford 300% 634% 4.4 July 2010 Vodafone wishes to provide a level of remuneration which attracts, retains Michel Combes 300% 154% 1.2 June 2014 and motivates executive directors of the highest calibre.
Within the package Stephen Pusey 300% 240% 1.3 June 2014 there needs to be the opportunity for executive directors to achieve Note: significant upside for truly exceptional performance.
The package provided 1 Based on a share price at 31 March 2011 of 176.5 pence and includes net intrinsic value of any option gains.
to the executive directors is reviewed annually on a total compensation basis i. e. single elements of the package are not reviewed in isolation.
When Collectively the Executive Committee including the executive directors own the package is reviewed it is done so in the context of individual and 8.7 million Vodafone shares, with a value of 15.2 million at 31 March 2011. company performance, internal relativities, criticality of the individual to the business, experience and the scarcity or otherwise of talent with the relevant Alignment with shareholders is also achieved through the use of total skill set.
shareholder return TSR measure in the Global Long-Term Incentive GLTI plan.
The principal external comparator group which is used for reference purposes only is made up of companies of similar size and complexity to Vodafone, and is principally representative of the European top 25 Incentive targets linked to business strategy companies and a few other select companies relevant to the sector.
The When designing our incentives, performance measures are chosen that comparator group excludes any financial services companies.
When support our strategic objectives as shown below: undertaking the benchmarking process the Remuneration Committee makes assumptions that individuals will invest their own money into Strategic objectives Supported by the long-term incentive plan.
This means that individuals will need to make Focus on key areas of growth potential Revenue and relative a significant investment in order to achieve the maximum payout.
Aiming to deliver organic service revenue performance targets growth of 1 4% a year until the year ended in the Global Short- 31 March 2014 in five key areas: mobile data, Term Incentive Plan Pay for performance emerging markets, enterprise, total GSTIP.
A high proportion of total reward will be awarded through short-term and communications and new services.
The Remuneration Delivering value and efficiency from scale EBITDA, free cash Committee believes that incorporating and setting appropriate performance Continuing to drive benefit from the Groups flow and relative measures and targets in the package is paramount this will be reflected in scale advantage and maintain our focus performance targets an appropriate balance of operational and equity performance.
Generate liquidity or free cash flow from The use of TSR as This is demonstrated in the charts below where we see that at target payout non-controlled interests Aim to seek to a performance over 70% of the package is delivered in the form of variable pay which rises maximise the value of non-controlled interests measure in GLTI as to almost 90% if maximum payout is achieved.
Fixed pay comprises base through generating liquidity or increasing well as the value of salary and pension contributions, while variable pay comprises the annual free cash flow in order to fund profitable the underlying shares.
bonus and the long-term incentive opportunity assuming maximum investments and enhance shareholders returns.
co-investment and no movement in current share price.
Apply rigorous capital discipline to investment Free cash flow targets decisions Continuing to apply capital in both the GSTIP and Alignment to shareholder interests discipline to our investment decisions through GLTI as well as the Base Pension Bonus LTI rigorous commercial analysis and demanding TSR target in the GLTI.
Fixed Variable investment criteria to ensure any investment Chief executive in existing businesses or acquisitions will Target 27.8% 72.2% enhance value for shareholders.
Maximum 10.1% 89.9% 1 Other executive directors Target 29.5% 70.5% Assessment of risk Maximum 11.1% 88.9% In setting the balance between base salary, annual bonus and long-term Note: incentive levels, the Remuneration Committee has considered the risk 1 Proportions for the directors other than the Chief Executive are the same.
involved in the incentive schemes and is satisfied that the following design Share ownership is a key cornerstone of our reward policy and is designed elements mitigate the principal risks: to help maintain commitment over the long-term, and to ensure that the interests of our senior management team are aligned with those of the heavy weighting on long-term incentives which reward sustained shareholders.
Executive directors are expected to build and maintain a performance: significant shareholding in Vodafone shares as follows: the need for short-term incentive payouts to be used to purchase and hold investment shares in order to fully participate in the long-term Chief Executive four times base salary: and arrangements: and Other executive directors three times base salary.
a considerable weighting on non-financial measures in the short-term plan, which provides an external perspective on our performance In all cases executives have been given five years to achieve these goals.
by focusing on customer satisfaction and performance relative to our competitors.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to consider the risks involved in the incentive plans on an ongoing basis.
