Financials Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 121 27.
Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, network infrastructure, motor vehicles and items of equipment.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses, purchase options and renewal rights, none of which are individually significant to the Group.
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases comprise: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 1,225 1,200 In more than one year but less than two years 958 906 In more than two years but less than three years 746 776 In more than three years but less than four years 638 614 In more than four years but less than five years 602 512 In more than five years 2,344 2,235 6,513 6,243 The total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases is 240 million 2010: 246 million.
Capital commitments Company and subsidiaries Share of joint ventures Group 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the 1 financial statements 1,786 1,800 338 219 2,124 2,019 Note: 1 Commitment includes contracts placed for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
The commitments of Cellco Partnership Cellco, which trades under the name of Verizon Wireless, are disclosed within the consolidated financial statements of Cellco for the year ended 31 December 2010, which are included as an exhibit to our 2011 annual report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC.
Contingent liabilities 2011 2010 m m Performance bonds 94 246 Credit guarantees third party indebtedness 114 76 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities 1,527 496 Performance bonds Performance bonds require the Group to make payments to third parties in the event that the Group does not perform what is expected of it under the terms of any related contracts or commercial arrangements.
Credit guarantees third party indebtedness Credit guarantees comprise guarantees and indemnities of bank or other facilities including those in respect of the Groups associates and investments.
Other guarantees and contingent liabilities Other guarantees principally comprise commitments to the India Supreme Court of INR 85 billion 1,188 million in relation to the taxation matter discussed on page 122.
The Group has pledged money market funds 1,387 million for this guarantee.
The Group also enters into lease arrangements in the normal course of business which are principally in respect of land, buildings and equipment.
Further details on the minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements can be found in note 27.
The Company has covenanted to provide security in favour of the Trustee of the Vodafone Group UK Pension Scheme whilst there is a funding deficit in the scheme.
The initial security was in the form of a Japanese law share pledge over 400,000 class 1 preferred shares of 200,000 in BB Mobile Corp. During the year, the Company and trustee agreed to replace the initial security with a charge over UK index linked gilts ILG held by the Company.
A charge in favour of the Trustee was agreed over ILG 2016 with a notional value of 100 million and ILG 2013 with a notional value of 48.9 million.
The security may be replaced either on a voluntary or mandatory basis.
As and when alternative security is provided, the Company has agreed that the security cover should include additional headroom of 33%, although if cash is used as the security asset the ratio will revert to 100% of the relevant liabilities or where the proposed replacement security asset is listed on an internationally recognised stock exchange in certain defined core jurisdictions, the trustee may decide to agree a lower ratio than 133%.
122 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Contingent liabilities continued adjudication on the facts with permission granted to VIHBV to appeal that decision back to the High Court should VIHBV disagree with the tax Legal proceedings authoritys findings.
On 30 October 2009 VIHBV received a notice from the The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may be from time to tax authority requiring VIHBV to show cause as to why it believed that the time, involved in a number of legal proceedings, including inquiries from, or tax authority did not have competent jurisdiction to proceed against VIHBV discussions with, governmental authorities that are incidental to their for the default of non-deduction of withholding tax from consideration paid operations.
However, save as disclosed below, the Company and its to HTIL.
VIHBV provided a response on 29 January 2010.
On 31 May 2010 subsidiaries are not currently involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings VIHBV received an order from the Indian tax authority confirming their view including any governmental proceedings which are pending or known to that they did have jurisdiction to proceed against VIHBV as well as a further be contemplated which may have, or have had in the 12 months preceding notice alleging that VIHBV should be treated as the agent of HTIL for the the date of this report, a significant effect on the financial position or purpose of recovering tax on the transaction.
VIHBV appealed this ruling to profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries.
With the exception of the the Bombay High Court.
On 8 September 2010 the Bombay High Court Vodafone 2 enquiry, due to inherent uncertainties, no accurate ruled that the tax authority had jurisdiction to decide whether the quantification of any cost, or timing of such cost, which may arise from any transaction or some part of the transaction could be taxable in India.
VIHBV of the legal proceedings outlined below can be made.
appealed this decision to the Supreme Court on 14 September 2010.
A hearing before the Supreme Court took place on 27 September 2010 at The Company was one of a number of co-defendants in four actions filed in which the Supreme Court noted the appeal and asked the tax authority to 2001 and 2002 in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia in the quantify any liability.
On 22 October 2010 the Indian tax authority United States alleging personal injury, including brain cancer, from mobile quantified the alleged tax liability and issued a demand for payment of INR phone use.
The Company is not aware that the health risks alleged in such 112.2 billion 1.6 billion of tax and interest.
VIHBV has contested the personal injury claims have been substantiated and vigorously defends such amount of such demand both on the basis of the calculation and on the claims.
In August 2007 the trial court dismissed all four actions against the basis that no tax was due in any event.
On 15 November 2010 VIHBV was Company on the basis of the federal pre-emption doctrine.
On 29 October asked to make a deposit with the Supreme Court of INR 25 billion 356 2009 the District of Columbia Court of Appeals ruled on the plaintiffs appeal million and provide a guarantee for INR 85 billion 1,188 million pending of the trial courts dismissal of all claims in the action on the basis of the final adjudication of the case, which request it duly complied with.
The Court of Appeals has upheld the dismissal Supreme Court will now hear the appeal on the issue of jurisdiction as well of most claims.
However, the decision permits the plaintiffs to continue any as on the challenge to quantification on 19 July 2011.
On 23 March 2011 claims alleging i injuries in respect of mobile phones purchased before 1 VIHBV received a notice requesting it to explain why it should not be liable August 1996 the date of the Federal Communication Commissions Specific for penalties of up to 100% of any tax found due for alleged failure to Absorption Rate standard FCC standard : ii injuries in respect of mobile withhold.
On 15 April 2011 the Supreme Court, in response to an application phones alleged not to have complied with the FCC standard: and iii fraud made by VIHBV, allowed the Indian tax authority to continue its and misrepresentation in respect of the sale or marketing of mobile phones investigations into the application of penalties but stayed the Indian tax in question.
The cases were returned to the trial court to be adjudicated in authorities from enforcing any liability until after the outcome of the accordance with the Court of Appeals decision and on 3 May 2010 plaintiffs Supreme Court hearing scheduled for 19 July 2011.
After investigations, on in the four actions filed amended complaints with the Superior Court.
29 April 2011, the Indian tax authority raised an order alleging penalties The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaints on were due but noting that these will not be enforced in line with the Supreme 30 July 2010.
The plaintiffs in these four actions have agreed to dismiss Court stay.
In addition, the separate proceedings taken against VIHBV to the Company from the actions on jurisdiction grounds.
However, the seek to treat it as an agent of HTIL in respect of its alleged tax on the same plaintiffs have reserved the right to re-commence the actions against the transaction have been deferred until the outcome in the first matter is Company if evidence supporting an assertion of jurisdiction were to emerge.
VELs case also continues to be stayed pending the outcome of the On 30 September 2010 the plaintiffs filed a stipulation for the voluntary VIHBV Supreme Court hearing.
VIHBV believes that neither it nor any other dismissal of the Company and the order granting the stipulation dismissing member of the Group is liable for such withholding tax, or is liable to be the Company without prejudice was entered on the court record on made an agent of HTIL: however, the outcome of the proceedings remains 5 October 2010. uncertain and such proceedings may or may not dispose of the matter in its entirety and there can be no assurance that any outcome will be On 22 July 2010 the Company settled the Vodafone 2 CFC case with HMRC favourable to VIHBV or the Group.
by agreeing to pay 1.25 billion comprising 800 million in the 2011 financial year, with the balance to be paid in instalments over the following In light of the uncertainty created by the Indian tax authoritys actions as set five years in respect of all outstanding CFC issues from 2001 to date.
It was out above, VIHBV, through its indirect wholly owned subsidiary Euro Pacific also agreed that no further UK CFC tax liabilities will arise in the near future Securities Ltd, has sought confirmation from the Authority for Advanced under current legislation.
Longer term, no CFC liabilities are expected to Rulings AAR in India on whether tax should be withheld in respect of arise as a consequence of the likely reforms of the CFC regime due to the consideration payable on the acquisition of Essar Groups Essar offshore facts established in this agreement.
A ruling from the AAR is expected by the end of May 2011 at the latest.
The Group does not believe that there is any legal requirement to Vodafone Essar Limited VEL and Vodafone International Holdings B. V. withhold tax in respect of these transactions but if, contrary to expectations, VIHBV each received notices in August 2007 and September 2007 the AAR directs tax to be withheld, this amount is anticipated to be respectively, from the Indian tax authority alleging potential liability in approximately an additional US$1 billion.
connection with alleged failure by VIHBV to deduct withholding tax from consideration paid to the Hutchison Telecommunications International Limited group HTIL in respect of HTILs gain on its disposal to VIHBV of its interests in a wholly-owned subsidiary that indirectly holds interests in VEL.
Following the receipt of such notices, VEL and VIHBV each filed writs seeking orders that their respective notices be quashed and that the tax authority take no further steps under the notices.
Initial hearings were held before the Bombay High Court and in the case of VIHBV the High Court admitted the writ for final hearing in June 2008.
In December 2008 the High Court dismissed VIHBVs writ.
VIHBV subsequently filed a special leave petition to the Supreme Court to appeal the High Courts dismissal of the writ.
On 23 January 2009 the Supreme Court referred the question of the tax authoritys jurisdiction to seek to pursue tax back to the tax authority for
