Financials Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 85 standard includes disclosure requirements for entities covered under income, expenses and cash flows of jointly controlled entities are combined IFRS 10 and IFRS 11. with the equivalent items in the results on a line-by-line basis.
IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, provides guidance on how fair value Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other controlled entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting standards within IFRS, including a precise definition of fair value and a policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRS.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and Basis of consolidation that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating of the Company and entities controlled, both unilaterally and jointly, by policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over the Company.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the Accounting for subsidiaries consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating consolidated statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for postpolicies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
Losses of an associate in The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are excess of the Groups interest in that associate are not recognised.
Additional included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or losses are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring on behalf of the associate.
their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the on consolidation.
associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling The licences of the Groups associate in the US, Verizon Wireless, are indefinite interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original lived assets as they are subject to perfunctory renewal.
Accordingly, they are business combination and the non-controlling shareholders share of not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment, or when changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive indicators exist that the carrying value is not recoverable.
income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Intangible assets Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the Group controls the Business combinations asset, it is probable that future economic benefits attributed to the asset will Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method.
flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and Goodwill equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity at their fair values at the acquisition date.
recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is held the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree, in the currency of the acquired entity and revalued to the closing rate at if any, over the net amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities each reporting period date.
assumed at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment.
The interest of the non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling shareholders Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities income statement.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an  basis.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss Acquisition of interests from non-controlling shareholders recognised in the income statement on disposal.
In transactions with non-controlling parties that do not result in a change in control, the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid or Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, on 1 April 2004, has received and the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for is recognised in equity.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any Interests in joint ventures subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control: that Finite lived intangible assets is, when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the Intangible assets with finite lives are stated at acquisition or development activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The amortisation period and method is reviewed at least annually.
Changes in the expected useful life or the The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in proportionate consolidation.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, the asset is accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method,
