86 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
The and properties under construction, using the straight-line method, over amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in their estimated useful lives, as follows: profit or loss in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible asset.
Freehold buildings 25 50 years Leasehold premises the term of the lease Licence and spectrum fees Amortisation periods for licence and spectrum fees are determined Equipment, fixtures and fittings: primarily by reference to the unexpired licence period, the conditions for licence renewal and whether licences are dependent on specific Network infrastructure 3 25 years technologies.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a Other 3 10 years straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives from the commencement of service of the network.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
Computer software Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful Computer software comprises computer software purchased from third lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the parties as well as the cost of internally developed software.
software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Costs that are directly associated The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sale by the Group, and are probable of producing future economic benefits are proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include software development income statement.
employee costs and directly attributable overheads.
Impairment of assets Software integral to a related item of hardware equipment is accounted for Goodwill as property, plant and equipment.
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense when they are incurred.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows, known as cashInternally developed software is recognised only if all of the following generating units.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is conditions are met: less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and an asset is created that can be separately identified: then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic amount of each asset in the unit.
Impairment losses recognised for goodwill benefits: and are not reversed in a subsequent period.
the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current over the estimated useful lives from the date the software is available market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the for use.
asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Other intangible assets The Group prepares and approves formal five year management plans for its Other intangible assets, including brands and customer bases, are recorded operations, which are used in the value in use calculations.
In certain at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income developing markets the fifth year of the management plan is not indicative statement on either a straight-line or sum of digits basis over the estimated of the long term future performance as operations may not have reached useful lives of intangible assets from the date they are available for use.
For these operations, the Group extends the plan data for an additional five year period.
Estimated useful lives The estimated useful lives of finite lived intangible assets are as follows: Property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets At each reporting period date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its Licence and spectrum fees 3 25 years property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets to determine Computer software 3 5 years whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an Brands 1 10 years impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the Customer bases 2 7 years asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashProperty, plant and equipment generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Land and buildings held for use are stated in the statement of financial position at their cost, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cashgenerating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is Equipment, fixtures and fittings are stated at cost less accumulated recognised immediately in the income statement.
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets recoverable amount, not to exceed the carrying amount that would have are ready for their intended use.
been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is The cost of property, plant and equipment includes directly attributable recognised immediately in the income statement.
incremental costs incurred in their acquisition and installation.
