Financials Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 77 Critical accounting estimates The Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with The Groups review includes the key assumptions related to sensitivity in IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the EU, the application of the cash flow projections.
Further details are provided in note 10 to the which often requires judgements to be made by management when consolidated financial statements.
formulating the Groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the directors are required to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate Revenue recognition and presentation to the Groups circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Arrangements with multiple deliverables In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often deliverables are assigned to one or more separate units of accounting and required in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting the arrangement consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the reported on its relative fair value.
results or net asset position of the Group should it later be determined that a different choice would be more appropriate.
Determining the fair value of each deliverable can require complex estimates due to the nature of the goods and services provided.
The Group generally Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions determines the fair value of individual elements based on prices at which the discussed below to be its critical accounting estimates and, accordingly, deliverable is regularly sold on a standalone basis after considering volume provides an explanation of each below.
The discussion below should also be read in conjunction with the Groups Presentation: gross versus net disclosure of significant IFRS accounting policies which is provided in note 2 When deciding the most appropriate basis for presenting revenue or costs to the consolidated financial statements, Significant accounting policies.
of revenue, both the legal form and substance of the agreement between the Group and its business partners are reviewed to determine each partys Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated respective role in the transaction.
disclosures with the Companys Audit Committee.
Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of principal, revenue is Impairment reviews recognised on a gross basis.
This requires revenue to comprise the gross IFRS requires management to undertake an annual test for impairment of value of the transaction billed to the customer, after trade discounts, with indefinite lived assets and, for finite lived assets, to test for impairment if any related expenditure charged as an operating cost.
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of an agent, revenue is recognised on a net basis with revenue representing the margin earned.
Impairment testing is an area involving management judgement, requiring assessment as to whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by Taxation the net present value of future cash flows derived from such assets using The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and cash flow projections which have been discounted at an appropriate rate.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily calculating the net present value of the future cash flows, certain involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items assumptions are required to be made in respect of highly uncertain matters whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been including managements expectations of: reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to growth in EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before material profits, losses and or cash flows.
depreciation and amortisation: timing and quantum of future capital expenditure: The complexity of the Groups structure following its geographic expansion long-term growth rates: and makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The the selection of discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the legal processes in the relevant taxing The Group prepares and approves formal five year management plans for its jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many operations, which are used in the value in use calculations.
In certain years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period developing markets the fifth year of the management plan is not indicative result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As of the long-term future performance as operations may not have reached a result there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the maturity.
For these operations, the Group extends the plan data for an consolidated income statement and tax payments.
Significant items on which the Group has exercised accounting judgement For businesses where the five year management plans are used for the include litigation with the Indian tax authorities in relation to the acquisition Groups value in use calculations, a long-term growth rate into perpetuity of Vodafone Essar see note 28 to the consolidated financial statements, has been determined as the lower of: recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect of the losses arising following the agreement of German tax loss claims see note 6 of the consolidated the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and financial statements and the recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect the long-term compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years six to ten of losses in Luxembourg following the settlement of the CFC tax case see estimated by management.
note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect of each matter are For businesses where the plan data is extended for an additional five years derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement as described for the Groups value in use calculations, a long-term growth rate into above.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: items means eventual resolution could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash flows.
the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and the compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years nine to ten of the management plan.
Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular, the discount than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the rate and growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow projections, could future against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
significantly affect the Groups impairment evaluation and hence results.
Where the temporary differences are related to losses, the availability of the losses to offset against forecast taxable profits is also considered.
78 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Critical accounting estimates continued Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial Licences and spectrum fees performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred The estimated useful life is generally the term of the licence unless there is tax asset has been recognised.
a presumption of renewal at negligible cost.
Using the licence term reflects the period over which the Group will receive economic benefit.
For Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits have not technology specific licences with a presumption of renewal at negligible resulted in material adjustments to the recognition of deferred tax assets.
cost, the estimated useful economic life reflects the Groups expectation of the period over which the Group will continue to receive economic benefit from the licence.
The economic lives are periodically reviewed taking into Business combinations consideration such factors as changes in technology.
Historically any The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the changes to economic lives have not been material following these reviews.
purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of assets acquired to be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity.
The Group Customer bases makes judgements and estimates in relation to the fair value allocation of the The estimated useful life principally reflects managements view of the purchase price.
If any unallocated portion is positive it is recognised as average economic life of the customer base and is assessed by reference to goodwill and if negative, it is recognised in the income statement.
An increase in churn rates may lead to a reduction in the estimated useful life and an increase in the amortisation charge.
Historically changes to the estimated useful lives have not had a significant Goodwill impact on the Groups results and financial position.
The amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business combination is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair Capitalised software value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The The useful life is determined by management at the time the software is determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities is based, to a acquired and brought into use and is regularly reviewed for appropriateness.
considerable extent, on managements judgement.
For computer software licences, the useful life represents managements view of expected benefits over which the Group will receive benefits from Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as finite the software, but not exceeding the licence term.
For unique software lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible products controlled by the Group, the life is based on historical experience assets, including goodwill, are not amortised and could result in differing with similar products as well as anticipation of future events which amortisation charges based on the allocation to indefinite lived and finite may impact their life such as changes in technology.
Historically changes lived intangible assets.
in useful lives have not resulted in material changes to the Groups amortisation charge.
On transition to IFRS the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business combinations, retrospectively as the difficulty in applying these requirements to the large number of business combinations completed by Property, plant and equipment the Group from incorporation through to 1 April 2004 exceeded any Property, plant and equipment also represent a significant proportion of the potential benefits.
Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, after asset base of the Group being 13.3% 2010: 13.1% of the Groups total assets.
adjusting for items including the impact of proportionate consolidation of Therefore the estimates and assumptions made to determine their carrying joint ventures, amounted to 78,753 million.
value and related depreciation are critical to the Groups financial position and performance.
If the Group had elected to apply the accounting for business combinations retrospectively it may have led to an increase or decrease in goodwill and Estimation of useful life increase in licences, customer bases, brands and related deferred tax The charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining liabilities recognised on acquisition.
an estimate of an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
Increasing an assets expected life or its residual Finite lived intangible assets value would result in a reduced depreciation charge in the consolidated income statement.
Other intangible assets include the Groups aggregate amounts spent on the acquisition of licences and spectrum, computer software, customer bases, The useful lives and residual values of Group assets are determined by brands and development costs.
These assets arise from both separate management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed annually for purchases and from acquisition as part of business combinations.
The lives are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events which may impact their life On the acquisition of mobile network operators the identifiable intangible such as changes in technology.
Furthermore, network infrastructure is only assets may include licences, customer bases and brands.
The fair value of depreciated over a period that extends beyond the expiry of the associated these assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows licence under which the operator provides telecommunications services if generated by the asset where no active market for the assets exist.
The use there is a reasonable expectation of renewal or an alternative future use for of different assumptions for the expectations of future cash flows and the the asset.
discount rate would change the valuation of the intangible assets.
Historically changes in useful lives and residual values have not resulted in The relative size of the Groups intangible assets, excluding goodwill, makes material changes to the Groups depreciation charge.
the judgements surrounding the estimated useful lives critical to the Groups financial position and performance.
Provisions and contingent liabilities At 31 March 2011 intangible assets, excluding goodwill, amounted The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and to 23,322 million 2010: 22,420 million and represented 15.4% the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other 2010: 14.3% of the Groups total assets.
outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 28 Estimation of useful life to the consolidated financial statements.
Judgement is necessary in The useful life used to amortise intangible assets relates to the expected assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will future performance of the assets acquired and managements judgement arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
Because of the period over which economic benefit will be derived from the asset.
of the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation process, actual losses may be The basis for determining the useful life for the most significant categories different from the originally estimated provision.
of intangible assets is as follows:
