Financials Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 127 Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the profit and loss The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in account for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP.
non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the profit and loss account for the period.
The preparation of Company financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and Borrowing costs liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the All borrowing costs are recognised in the profit and loss account in the Company financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and period in which they are incurred.
expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an Taxation ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that exist at the balance As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and sheet date and that result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay loss account of the Company is not presented in this annual report.
These less tax in the future.
The deferred tax is measured at the rate expected to separate financial statements are not intended to give a true and fair view of apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, the profit or loss or cash flows of the Company.
The Company has not based on the tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at published its individual cash flow statement as its liquidity, solvency and the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items financial adaptability are dependent on the Group rather than its own cash flows.
of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the Company financial statements.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more Related Party Disclosures and has not reported transactions with fellow likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Group undertakings.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 29 Financial instruments Financial Instruments: Disclosures and has not produced any disclosures Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, required by that standard, as disclosures that comply with FRS 29 are are recognised on the company balance sheet when the Company becomes available in the Vodafone Group Plc annual report for the year ended a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments 2.
Significant accounting policies Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are The Companys significant accounting policies are described below.
classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual Accounting convention interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and The Company financial statements are prepared under the historical cost includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets.
The convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards of the accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity UK Accounting Standards Board and pronouncements of the Urgent Issues instruments are set out below.
Capital market and bank borrowings Investments Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value Shares in Group undertakings are stated at cost less any provision which is equal to cost at inception and are subsequently measured at for impairment.
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between The Company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or the proceeds net of transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable Equity instruments amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the value of the investment, Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds the investment is considered to be impaired and is written down to its received, net of direct issuance costs.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in exchange rates and interest rates.
fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved previously recognised in equity, determined using the weighted average by the Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of cost method, is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Foreign currencies Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of contract date and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and reporting date.
The Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the the change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value Companys functional currency at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet hedges.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, no longer qualifies for hedge foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the initial accounting or the Company chooses to end the hedging relationship.
Non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
