Financials Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 125 Audit report on the Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 of Vodafone Group Plc In our opinion: We have audited the parent company financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the balance the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been sheet and the related notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United the information given in the directors report for the financial year for Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Matters on which we are required to report by exception accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or not visited by us: or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the directors statement of responsibilities, the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial made: or statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Other matter Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Panos Kakoullis FCA Senior Statutory Auditor by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of London significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall United Kingdom presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial 17 May 2011 and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
