132 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Shareholder information Financial calendar for the 2012 financial year resident outside the UK and eurozone automatically receive dividends in pounds sterling by lodging UK bank account details but may elect to Interim management statement 22 July 2011 receive dividends in local currency into their bank account directly via our Half-year financial results announcement 8 November 2011 registrars global payments service.
co. uk for details, and terms and conditions.
Further details will be published at www.
com investor as they become available.
Results announcements are available online at For dividend payments in euros, the sterling euro exchange rate will be www.
com investor we do not publish them in the press.
determined by us in accordance with the Companys articles of association, up to 13 business days prior to the payment date.
Dividends We will pay the ADS depositary, BNY Mellon, its dividend in US dollars.
Full details on the dividend amount per share can be found on page 47.
The sterling US dollar exchange rate for this purpose will be determined Set out below is information relevant to the final dividend for the year ended by us up to ten New York and London business days prior to the payment 31 March 2011. date.
Cash dividends to ADS holders will be paid by the ADS depositary in US dollars.
Ex-dividend date 1 June 2011 Record date 3 June 2011 Further information about the dividend payments can be found at www.
Dividend reinvestment plan last election date 15 July 2011 1 vodafone.
com dividends or, alternatively, please contact our registrars or Dividend payment date 5 August 2011 the ADS depositary, as applicable, for further details.
Note: 1 Payment date for both ordinary shares and american depositary shares ADSs.
Dividend reinvestment We offer a dividend reinvestment plan which allows holders of ordinary Dividend payment methods shares, who choose to participate, to use their cash dividends to acquire Currently holders of ordinary shares and ADSs can: additional shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf by the plan administrator through a low cost dealing arrangement.
have cash dividends paid direct to a bank or building society account: or elect to use the cash dividends to purchase more Vodafone ordinary For ADS holders BNY Mellon maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan which is a shares under the dividend reinvestment plan see below or, in the direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts with a dividend case of ADSs, have the dividends reinvested to purchase additional reinvestment facility.
ADS holders can, in addition to the above, have their cash dividends paid in Telephone share dealing the form of a cheque.
A telephone share dealing service operated by our registrars is available for holders of ordinary shares.
The service is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Holders of ordinary shares: Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 44 0 870 703 0084.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by calling the resident in the UK automatically receive their dividends in pounds sterling above number.
provided that UK bank details have been provided to the Company: resident in the eurozone defined for this purpose as a country that has adopted the euro as its national currency automatically receive their dividends in euros provided that euro bank details have been provided to the Company: and Registrars and transfer office If private shareholders have any enquiries about their holding of ordinary shares, such as a change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments, they should contact our registrars at the address or telephone number below.
Computershare Investor Services PLC maintain the Companys share register and holders of ordinary shares can visit the registrars investor centre at www.
co. uk to view and update details of their shareholding.
ADS holders should address any queries or instructions regarding their holdings to the depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme at the address or telephone number below.
com shareowner ADS holders can view their account information, make changes and conduct many other transactions.
The Registrars Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited The Pavilions PO Box 9742 Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ, England Dublin 18, Ireland Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 Telephone: 353 0 818 300 999 www.
co. uk contactus ADS depositary BNY Mellon BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 358516 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516, US Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 toll free or, for calls outside the US, 1 201 680 6837 not toll free and enter company number 2160 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
