88 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting period date and adjusted to reflect changes in probability that sufficient The net foreign exchange gain recognised in the consolidated income taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be statement is 1,022 million 2010: 35 million gain, 2009: 131 million loss.
Research expenditure Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period period when the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax in which it is incurred.
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting period date.
Post employment benefits For defined benefit retirement plans, the difference between the fair value Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right of the plan assets and the present value of the plan liabilities is recognised to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position.
Scheme either relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either liabilities are assessed using the projected unit funding method and applying the same taxable entity or on different taxable entities which intend to settle the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting period date.
Assets are the current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates Actuarial gains and losses are taken to the statement of comprehensive to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also income as incurred.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise recognised directly in equity.
both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial Financial instruments assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the Groups statement of financial position when the Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
statement, including the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements.
The interest cost less the expected Trade receivables return on assets is also charged to the income statement.
The amount Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal charged to the income statement in respect of these plans is included within value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable operating costs or in the Groups share of the results of equity accounted amounts.
Estimated irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the operations as appropriate.
receivable balances and historical experience.
Individual trade receivables are written off when management deems them not to be collectible.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Other investments Other investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where Cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 April 2004, the date of transition a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require to IFRS, have been recognised in the statement of financial position.
delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and Other investments classified as held for trading and available-for-sale are deferred tax.
Where securities are held for trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is because some items of income or expense are taxable or deductible in disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative different years or may never be taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability gain or loss previously recognised in equity, determined using the weighted for current tax is calculated using UK and foreign tax rates and laws that have average cost method, is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting period date.
Other investments classified as loans and receivables are stated at Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in the future amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
arising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases Cash and cash equivalents used in the computation of taxable profit.
It is accounted for using the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and call deposits, and statement of financial position liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will in value.
be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Trade payables Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
arises from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit Financial liabilities and equity instruments nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised to the Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified extent they arise from the initial recognition of non tax deductable goodwill.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint the Group after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the deliver cash or other financial assets.
The accounting policies adopted for temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
