Financials Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 79 Audit report on the consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Vodafone Group Plc In our opinion the information given in the directors report for the financial We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Vodafone Group year for which the consolidated financial statements are prepared is Plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the consolidated consistent with the group financial statements.
income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated Matters on which we are required to report by exception statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit made: or work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys we have not received all the information and explanations we require for members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors our audit.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company Under the listing rules we are required to review: and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the directors statement contained within the directors report in relation to going concern: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the As explained more fully in the directors statement of responsibilities, the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial Combined Code specified for our review: and statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Other matter comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Scope of the audit of the financial statements having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently Panos Kakoullis FCA Senior Statutory Auditor applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial London information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the United Kingdom audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material 17 May 2011 misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
