Vodafone Group Plc 2011 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting 7 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-seventh Annual General Meeting of 19 To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of Vodafone Group Plc Vodafone or the Company will be held at The the auditor.
Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, 20 That: London SW1P 3EE on Tuesday, 26 July 2011 at 11.00 a. m. to transact the business set out in the Resolutions below.
Resolutions 1 to 20 inclusive will 20.1 the authority conferred on the directors by Article 11.2 of the be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and Resolutions 21 to 23 inclusive Companys Articles of Association be renewed and for this will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
Voting on all Resolutions will be by purpose: way of a poll.
i the Section 551 Amount be US$1,955,207,296: and The Board recommends a vote FOR Resolutions 1 to 23 ii t he Allotment Period be the period expiring at the end of 1 To receive the Companys accounts and reports of the directors and the the next Annual General Meeting or on 30 September auditor for the year ended 31 March 2011.
2012, whichever is the earlier: and 2 That Gerard Kleisterlee, a director retiring in accordance with the 20.2 the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised Companys Articles of Association, be and is hereby elected as a director pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the of the Company.
Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares or grant rights to 3 That John Buchanan, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself subscribe for or to convert any security into shares up to a for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
further nominal amount of US$1,955,207,296 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue, such authority to expire at 4 That Vittorio Colao, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for the end of the next Annual General Meeting or on 30 re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
September 2012, whichever is the earlier but so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during 5 That Michel Combes, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself the relevant period which would, or might, require shares to be for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after the authority ends.
6 That Andy Halford, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
For the purposes of the authority in paragraph 20.2 above, rights issue means an offer to: 7 That Stephen Pusey, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
a ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 8 That Renee James, a director retiring in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, be and is hereby elected as a director of b people who are holders of other equity securities if this is required the Company.
by the rights of those securities or, if the directors consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, 9 That Alan Jebson, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
to subscribe for further securities by means of the issue of a renounceable letter or other negotiable document which may be 10 That Samuel Jonah, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself traded for a period before payment for the securities is due, but subject for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
in both cases to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, 11 That Nick Land, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
problems in, or under the laws of, any territory.
12 That Anne Lauvergeon, a director retiring voluntarily and offering The authorities in this Resolution apply in substitution for all herself for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of previous authorities.
21 That, subject to the passing of Resolution 20: 13 That Luc Vandevelde, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
21.1 the power conferred on the directors by Article 11.3 of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for the 14 That Anthony Watson, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself Allotment Period specified in paragraph 20.1 ii of Resolution for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
20 and for such period the Section 561 Amount be US$324,635,375: and 15 That Philip Yea, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
21.2 the directors be empowered to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the 2006 Act wholly for cash 16 That the final dividend recommended by the directors of 6.05p per pursuant to the authority given by paragraph 20.2 of Resolution ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2011 be declared payable 20 above in connection with a rights issue as if Section 561 1 on the ordinary shares of the Company to all members whose names of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment, such appear on the Register of Members on 3 June 2011 and that such power to expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting dividend be paid on 5 August 2011. or on 30 September 2012, whichever is the earlier but so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements 17 To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board for the year ended during this period which would, or might, require equity 31 March 2011. securities to be allotted after the power ends.
18 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company until the For the purposes of this Resolution rights issue has the same meaning conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid as in Resolution 20 above.
8 Vodafone Group Plc 2011 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 22 That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the 2006 Act to make market purchases as 3 defined in Section 693 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of US 11 7 cents each in the capital of the Company provided that: 22.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 5,132,419,152: 22.2 t he minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share 3 is US 11 7 cents: 22.3 the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for any ordinary share does not exceed the higher of 1 5 per cent above the average closing price of such shares on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days prior to the date of purchase and 2 the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buy-back programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments No 2273 2003 : and 22.4 this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2012 or on 30 September 2012, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of such authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
23 That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By Order of the Board Rosemary Martin Company Secretary Vodafone House, The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 2FN, England 1 June 2011 Vodafone Group Plc 2011 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting 9 Notes 1 A shareholder is entitled to appoint another person as his her proxy to exercise all or any of 10 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers his her rights to attend and to speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
A shareholder should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member that shareholder.
A proxy need not also be a shareholder of the Company.
Shareholders who concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored have lodged a proxy whether by post, via the internet, or by submitting a CREST message if member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or applicable are not precluded from attending and voting at the meeting themselves.
voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST 2 To appoint a proxy a the Form of Proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are which it is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority, must be sent to referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater of the CREST system and timings.
Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, or b the proxy appointment must be lodged using the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with Note 9 below, or c the proxy appointment must be 11 The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in registered electronically on the website at www.
com agm, in each case so as to be Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. received no later than 11 a. m. on Friday, 22 July 2011.
12 Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the 2006 Act, shareholders meeting the 3 Any person to whom this Notice of Annual General Meeting is sent who is a person nominated threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to under Section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to i the audit of the under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the financial year beginning 1 April 2010, or ii General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the beginning 1 April 2010 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The rights relating to proxy appointments in accounts and reports were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting Note 1 do not apply directly to Nominated Persons.
any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 requirements as to website availability of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to 4 Entitlement to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting, and the number of votes which place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the may be cast at the Annual General Meeting, will be determined by reference to the Companys statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement register of members at 11 a. m. on Friday, 22 July 2011 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting excluding non-working days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting as the case for the relevant financial year includes any statement that the Company has been required may be.
In each case, changes to the register of members after such time will be disregarded.
under Section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
5 Copies of the service contracts of the directors of the Company and terms and conditions of 13 Any shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting has the right to ask questions.
The appointment of all non-executive directors of the Company, a copy of the Companys current Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt Articles of Association and a copy of this Notice of Annual General Meeting will be available with at the Annual General Meeting but no such answer need be given if i to do so would for inspection at the registered office of the Company and the offices of Linklaters LLP, One interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ during normal business hours on any weekday excluding information, ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a Saturday, Sunday and public holidays from the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting question, or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the until and including the date of the Annual General Meeting and at The Queen Elizabeth II meeting that the question be answered.
Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE from 10.45 a. m. on that date until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
A copy of this Notice of Annual 14 Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the 2006 Act shareholders meeting the threshold General Meeting and other information required by Section 311A of the 2006 Act are also requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to available for viewing on the Companys website www.
shareholders of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Annual General Meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the Annual 6 As at 18 May 2011, which is the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice of General Meeting and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Annual General Annual General Meeting, the Companys issued share capital comprised 56,811,190,759 Meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the 3 ordinary shares of US 11 7 cents each including treasury shares and 50,000 7 per cent business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the cumulative fixed rate shares of 1 each.
The total number of votes exercisable as at 18 May business unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether 2011 was 51,324,191,528.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, general meetings of the Company.
On a vote by show of hands every ordinary shareholder b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in who is present and entitled to vote has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On a vote by poll every ordinary given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 13 June 2011, being the The holders of 7 per cent cumulative fixed rate shares are only entitled to attend and vote at date 6 clear weeks before the Annual General Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be general meetings of the Company in very limited circumstances, as set out in the Articles of included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds Association of the Company.
Each of the Resolutions to be put to the meeting will be voted for the request.
on by poll and not by show of hands.
A poll reflects the number of voting rights exercisable by each member and so the Board considers it a more democratic method of voting.
It is also in line with recommendations made by the Shareholder Voting Working Group in 2004.
7 Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
8 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment of the Annual General Meeting by following the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
9 In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Computershare Investor Services PLC ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in Note 2 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to him her by other means.
