60 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Disclosure controls and procedures US listing requirements We maintain disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Vodafones american depositary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Stock Rule 13a-15 e of the Exchange Act, that are designed to ensure that Market LLC NASDAQ and we are therefore subject to the rules of information required to be disclosed in reports that we file or submit under the NASDAQ as well as US securities laws and the rules of the SEC.
NASDAQ Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the requires US companies listed on the exchange to comply with NASDAQs time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information corporate governance rules but foreign private issuers, such as the is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Company, are exempt from many of those rules.
However, pursuant to Executive and Chief Financial Officer as appropriate, to allow timely decisions NASDAQ Listing Rule 5615 we are required to disclose a summary of any regarding required disclosure.
material ways in which the corporate governance practices we follow differ from those required by NASDAQ for US companies.
The material differences The directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer have are as follows: evaluated the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures and, based on that evaluation, have concluded that the disclosure controls and Independence procedures are effective at the end of the period covered by this document.
The NASDAQ rules require that a majority of the Board be comprised of independent directors and the rules include detailed definitions that US Going concern companies must use for determining independence.
The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the The Combined Code requires a companys board of directors to assess Combined Code is set out in the Directors statement of responsibility on and make a determination as to the independence of its directors.
While the Board does not explicitly take into consideration NASDAQs detailed definitions, it has carried out an assessment based on the requirements of the Auditor Combined Code and has determined in its judgement that all of the nonFollowing a recommendation by the Audit Committee, and in accordance executive directors are independent within those requirements.
At 17 May with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing the 2011 the Board comprised the Chairman, four executive directors and ten reappointment of Deloitte LLP as our auditor will be put to the shareholders non-executive directors.
We do not indemnify our external auditor.
Committees In its assessment of the independence of the auditor and in accordance with NASDAQ rules require US companies to have a nominations committee, an the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards standard on audit committee and a compensation committee, each composed entirely independence, the Audit Committee receives in writing details of of independent directors, with the nominations committee and audit relationships between the Company and Deloitte LLP that may have a committee required to have a written charter that addresses the bearing on their independence and receives confirmation that they are committees purpose and responsibilities.
independent of the Company within the meaning of the securities laws Both our Nominations and Governance Committee and our administered by the SEC.
Remuneration Committee have terms of reference and compositions that comply with the Combined Codes requirements.
In addition, the Audit Committee pre-approves the audit fee after a review Our Nominations and Governance Committee is chaired by the Chairman of both the level of the audit fee against other comparable companies, of the Board and its other members are non-executive directors of the including those in the telecommunications industry, and the level and Company.
nature of non-audit fees, as part of its review of the adequacy and objectivity Our Remuneration Committee is composed entirely of non-executive of the audit process.
directors whom the Board has determined to be independent.
The Audit Committee is composed entirely of non-executive directors In a further measure to ensure auditor independence is not compromised we whom the Board has determined to be independent and who meet the have a policy that provides for the pre-approval by the Audit Committee of requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act.
permitted non-audit services by Deloitte LLP.
The policy lists categories of non-audit services from which the auditor is excluded from providing.
For We consider that the terms of reference of these committees, which are certain specific permitted services the Audit Committee has pre-approved available on our website www.
com governance, are generally that Deloitte LLP can be engaged by management subject to specified fee responsive to the relevant NASDAQ rules but may not address all aspects of limits for individual engagements and fee limits for each type of specific these rules.
For all other services, or those permitted services that exceed the specified fee limits, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, or in his absence another member, can pre-approve permitted services which have Code of conduct not been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
Under NASDAQ rules US companies must adopt a code of conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees.
We have adopted a Code In addition to their statutory duties, Deloitte LLP is also engaged where, as a of Conduct which applies to all employees.
It sets out what conduct is result of their position as auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, expected of employees as they adhere to our Business Principles and draws perform the audit-related services in question.
This is primarily work in their attention to the Groups policies.
In addition, a Code of Ethics has been relation to matters such as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, adopted in compliance with Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which regulatory filings, and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
Other is applicable to the senior financial and principal executive officers.
We have work is awarded on the basis of competitive tender.
made our Code of Ethics available on our website www.
During the year Deloitte LLP and its affiliates charged the Group 9 million 2010: 9 million, 2009: 8 million for audit and audit-related services and Quorum a further 1 million 2010: 1 million, 2009: 1 million for non-audit Under NASDAQ rules companies are required to have a minimum quorum of assignments which primarily comprised fees in relation to a number of 33.33% of the shareholders of ordinary shares for shareholder meetings.
taxation assignments totalling 1 million 2010: 1 million, 2009: 1 million.
However, our articles of association provide for a quorum for general meetings The auditor was considered the most suitable supplier for the services given of shareholders of two shareholders regardless of the level of their aggregate its extensive knowledge of the Group.
After reviewing external requirements share ownership.
and guidelines in place, the types of services rendered were considered by the Audit Committee not to impact the objectivity and independence of Deloitte LLP.
An analysis of these fees can be found in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
