68 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration continued Other considerations Cascade of policy to Executive Committee 2011 financial year Long-term incentive Service contracts of executive directors The long-term incentive is consistent with the executive directors The Remuneration Committee has determined that after an initial term of including the opportunity to invest in the GLTI to receive matching up to two years duration executive directors contracts should thereafter awards.
In addition, Executive Committee members have a share have rolling terms and be terminable on no more than 12 months notice.
ownership requirement of two times base salary.
The table below summarises the key elements of their service contract: All-employee share plans Provision Detailed items The executive directors are also eligible to participate in the all-employee plans.
Notice period 12 months Retirement date Normal retirement date Summary of plans Termination Up to 12 months salary Sharesave payment Bonus paid up to termination day The Vodafone Group 2008 Sharesave Plan is a HM Revenue & Customs Entitlements under incentive plans and benefits HMRC approved scheme open to all staff permanently employed that are consistent with the terms of such plans by a Vodafone Company in the UK as of the eligibility date.
Options Remuneration Salary, pension, and benefits under the plan are granted at up to a 20% discount to market value.
Company car or cash allowance Executive directors participation is included in the option table on Participation in the GSTIP, GLTI page 71. and the employee share schemes Share Incentive Plan Non-competition During employment and for 12 months thereafter The Vodafone Share Incentive Plan is an HMRC approved plan open to all staff permanently employed by a Vodafone Company in the UK.
Contract dates Date of service agreement Length of Board service Participants may contribute up to a maximum of 125 per month or Vittorio Colao 27 May 2008 2 years 10 months 5% of salary if less which the trustee of the plan uses to buy shares Andy Halford 20 May 2005 5 years 10 months on their behalf.
An equivalent number of shares are purchased with Michel Combes 1 June 2009 1 year 10 months contributions from the employing company.
UK-based executive Stephen Pusey 1 June 2009 1 year 10 months directors are eligible to participate.
Additionally, all of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest Dilution and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any All awards are made under plans that incorporate dilution limits as set out in performance condition has been satisfied.
The Remuneration Committee the guidelines for share incentive schemes published by the Association of may also decide that the extent to which an award will vest will be further British Insurers.
The current estimated dilution from subsisting awards, reduced pro-rata to reflect the acceleration of vesting.
including executive and all-employee share awards, is approximately 3.4% of the Companys share capital at 31 March 2011 3.1% at 31 March 2010.
Fees retained for external non-executive directorships Executive directors may hold positions in other companies as non-executive Funding directors.
Michel Combes was the only executive director with such A mixture of newly issued shares, treasury shares and shares purchased in positions held at Assystem SA and ISS Group, and in accordance with Group the market by the employee benefit trust are used to satisfy share-based policy he retained fees for the year of 50,223 from Assystem SA and awards.
This policy is kept under review.
DKK243,750 from ISS Group 73,250 in total.
Other matters Cascade to senior management The Share Incentive Plan and the co-investment into the GLTI plan include The principles of the policy are cascaded, where appropriate, to the other restrictions on the transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
members of the Executive Committee as set out below.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the registered Cascade of policy to Executive Committee 2011 financial year owner, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at Total remuneration and base salary the discretion of the participant.
Methodology consistent with the executive directors.
Annual bonus The annual bonus is based on the same measures.
For some individuals these are measured within a region rather than across the whole Group.
TSR performance The following chart is included in order to be compliant with the requirements of the large and medium sized companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Data was provided by FTSE and DataStream and shows performance of the Company relative to the FTSE 100 index over a five year period, of which we were a constituent throughout the year.
It should be noted that the payout from the long-term incentive plan is based on the TSR performance shown in the graph on page 67 and not on the graph below.
Five year historical TSR performance growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years.
