134 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Shareholder information continued Inflation and foreign currency translation Shareholders at 31 March 2011 Number of % of total Inflation Number of ordinary shares held accounts issued shares Inflation has not had a significant effect on the Groups results of operations 1 1,000 430,021 0.21 and financial condition during the three years ended 31 March 2011.
1,001 5,000 79,461 0.32 5,001 50,000 27,629 0.61 Foreign currency translation 50,001 100,000 1,126 0.14 The following table sets out the pounds sterling exchange rates of the other 100,001 500,000 1,094 0.44 principal currencies of the Group, being: euros, or eurocents, the More than 500,000 1,636 98.28 currency of the European Union EU member states which have adopted 540,967 100.00 the euro as their currency, and US dollars, US$, cents or, the currency of the US.
Geographical analysis of shareholders 31 March % At 31 March 2011 approximately 46.9% of the Companys shares were held in Currency 1 2011 2010 change the UK, 30.2% in North America, 14.4% in Europe excluding the UK and 8.5% Average: in the rest of the world.
Euro 1.18 1.13 4.4 US dollar 1.56 1.60 2.5 Major shareholders At 31 March: BNY Mellon, as custodian of the Companys ADR programme, held Euro 1.13 1.12 0.9 3 approximately 17% of the Companys ordinary shares of 11 7 US cents each US dollar 1.61 1.52 5.9 at 16 May 2011 as nominee.
The total number of ADRs outstanding at 16 May 2011 was 886,242,945.
At this date 1,369 holders of record of ordinary The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, the period shares had registered addresses in the US and in total held approximately end, average, high and low exchanges rates for pounds sterling expressed in 0.007% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
At 16 May 2011 the following US dollars per 1.00. percentage interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, DTR 5, have been notified to Year ended 31 March 31 March Average High Low the directors: 2007 1.97 1.89 1.98 1.74 2008 1.99 2.01 2.11 1.94 Shareholder Shareholding 2009 1.43 1.72 2.00 1.37 Black Rock, Inc. 6.00% 2010 1.52 1.60 1.70 1.44 Legal & General Group Plc 3.59% 2011 1.61 1.56 1.64 1.43 The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by these The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and low shareholders are identical in all respects to the rights attaching to all the exchange rates rates for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00. ordinary shares of the Company.
The directors are not aware, at 16 May 2011, of any other interest of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Month High Low Company.
The Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by November 2010 1.63 1.56 any foreign government or any other legal entity.
There are no arrangements December 2010 1.59 1.54 known to the Company that could result in a change of control of the Company.
January 2011 1.60 1.55 February 2011 1.63 1.60 March 2011 1.64 1.60 Articles of association and applicable English law April 2011 1.67 1.61 The following description summarises certain provisions of the Companys articles of association and applicable English law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 of England and Markets Wales and the Companys articles of association.
Information on where Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London Stock shareholders can obtain copies of the articles of association is provided Exchange and in the form of ADSs on NASDAQ.
The Company had a total under Documents on display on page 137. market capitalisation of approximately 86.4 billion at 16 May 2011 making it the second largest listing in The Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 index The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England th and the 28 largest company in the world based on market capitalisation at and Wales.
The Company is registered in England and Wales under the that date.
name Vodafone Group Public Limited Company with the registration number 1833679.
ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on NASDAQ under the symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued by BNY Mellon, All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further as depositary, under a deposit agreement, dated as of 12 October 1988, as contribution of capital may be required by the Company from the holders of amended and restated on 26 December 1989, 16 September 1991, 30 June such shares.
1999, 31 July 2006 and 30 July 2009 between the Company, the depositary and the holders from time to time of ADRs issued thereunder.
English law specifies that any alteration to the articles of association must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders.
ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct BNY Mellon on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary shares Articles of association represented by their ADSs.
See Articles of association and applicable Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the object clauses and other English law Rights attaching to the Companys shares Voting rights on provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum of association page 135. are deemed to be contained in the companys articles of association unless they are removed by a special resolution of the company.
If removed, the companys objects are unrestricted.
By a special resolution passed at the 2010 AGM the Company removed its object clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum of association which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the Companys articles of association.
Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 135 Directors Dividend rights The Companys articles of association provide for a Board of directors, Holders of 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are entitled to be paid in respect consisting of not fewer than three directors, who shall manage the business of each financial year, or other accounting period of the Company, a fixed and affairs of the Company.
cumulative preferential dividend of 7% per annum on the nominal value of the fixed rate shares.
A fixed cumulative preferential dividend may only be The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company paid out of available distributable profits which the directors have resolved subject to any restrictions in the articles of association, the Companies Act should be distributed.
The fixed rate shares do not have any other right to as defined in the articles of association and any special resolution.
share in the Companys profits.
Under the Companys articles of association a director cannot vote in Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, respect of any proposal in which the director, or any person connected with declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount the director, has a material interest other than by virtue of the directors recommended by the directors.
The Board of directors may also pay interim interest in the Companys shares or other securities.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for on voting does not apply to resolutions i giving the director or a third party distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares can be paid to shareholders in any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of obligations or liabilities whatever currency the directors decide, using an appropriate exchange rate incurred at the request of or for the benefit of the Company, ii giving any for any currency conversions which are required.
guarantee, security or indemnity to the director or a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the date of the responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee, iii relating to an offer of resolution passed at a general meeting declaring that dividend or the securities of the Company in which the director is entitled to participate as resolution of the directors providing for payment of that dividend, the a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting of such shares or directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit securities, iv concerning any other company in which the director together of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend remains with any connected person is a shareholder or an officer or is otherwise unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either declaring that interested, provided that the director together with any connected person dividend or providing for payment of that dividend, it will be forfeited and is not interested in 1% or more of any class of the Companys equity share belong to the Company.
capital or the voting rights available to its shareholders, v relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which the director will share Voting rights equally with other employees and vi relating to any insurance that the The Companys articles of association provide that voting on substantive Company purchases or renews for its directors or any group of people resolutions i. e. any resolution which is not a procedural resolution at a including directors.
general meeting shall be decided on a poll.
On a poll, each shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to share held.
Procedural resolutions such as a resolution to adjourn a general borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of meeting or a resolution on the choice of Chairman of a general meeting all liabilities and obligations of the Group outstanding at any time shall shall be decided on a show of hands, where each shareholder who is present not exceed an amount equal to 1.5 times the aggregate of the Groups at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held, unless share capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in the a poll is demanded.
In addition, the articles of association allow persons articles of association unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the appointed as proxies of shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings to Companys shareholders.
vote on a show of hands, as well as to vote on a poll and attend and speak at general meetings.
The articles of association also allow persons appointed as The Company can make market purchases of its own shares or agree to do proxies by two or more shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings to so in the future provided it is duly authorised by its members in a general vote for and against a resolution on a show of hands.
meeting and subject to and in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006.
Under English law two shareholders present in person constitute a quorum for purposes of a general meeting unless a companys articles of association At each AGM all directors who were elected or last re-elected at or before specify otherwise.
The Companys articles of association do not specify the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current year shall otherwise, except that the shareholders do not need to be present in person automatically retire.
In 2005 the Company reviewed its policy regarding the and may instead be present by proxy to constitute a quorum.
retirement and re-election of directors and, although it is not intended to amend the Companys articles of association in this regard, the Board has Under English law shareholders of a public company such as the Company decided in the interests of good corporate governance that all of the are not permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
directors wishing to continue in office should offer themselves for re-election annually.
Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak and vote on a poll or a show of hands at any general meeting of the Companys Directors are not required under the Companys articles of association to shareholders by the depositarys appointment of them as corporate hold any shares of the Company as a qualification to act as a director, representatives with respect to the underlying ordinary shares represented although executive directors participating in long-term incentive plans must by their ADSs.
Alternatively holders of ADSs are entitled to vote by supplying comply with the Companys share ownership guidelines.
In accordance with their voting instructions to the depositary or its nominee who will vote the best practice in the UK for corporate governance, compensation awarded ordinary shares underlying their ADSs in accordance with their instructions.
to executive directors is decided by a remuneration committee consisting exclusively of non-executive directors.
Employees are able to vote any shares held under the Vodafone Group Share Incentive Plan and My ShareBank a vested nominee share account In addition, as required by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, through the respective plans trustees.
the Board has, since 2003, prepared a report to shareholders on the directors remuneration which complies with the regulations see pages 62 Holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are only entitled to 73.
The report is also subject to a shareholder vote.
to vote on any resolution to vary or abrogate the rights attached to the fixed rate shares.
Holders have one vote for every fully paid 7% cumulative fixed Rights attaching to the Companys shares rate share.
At 31 March 2011 the issued share capital of the Company was comprised of 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each and 51,577,525,830 3 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares of 11 7 US cents each.
136 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Shareholder information continued Liquidation rights General meetings and notices In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of all liabilities Subject to the articles of association, annual general meetings are held at and deductions in accordance with English law, the holders of the such times and place as determined by the directors of the Company.
The Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares would be entitled to a sum equal directors may also, when they think fit, convene other general meetings of to the capital paid up on such shares, together with certain dividend the Company.
General meetings may also be convened on requisition as payments, in priority to holders of the Companys ordinary shares.
The provided by the Companies Act 2006. holders of the fixed rate shares do not have any other right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
An annual general meeting needs to be called by not less than 21 days notice in writing.
Subject to obtaining shareholder approval on an annual Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares basis, the Company may call other general meetings on 14 days notice.
The Under Section 549 of the Companies Act 2006 directors are, with certain directors may determine that persons entitled to receive notices of meetings exceptions, unable to allot the Companys ordinary shares or securities are those persons entered on the register at the close of business on a day convertible into the Companys ordinary shares without the authority of the determined by the directors but not later than twenty-one days before the shareholders in a general meeting.
In addition, Section 561 of the Companies date the relevant notice is sent.
The notice may also specify the record date, Act 2006 imposes further restrictions on the issue of equity securities as the time of which shall be determined in accordance with the articles of defined in the Companies Act 2006 which include the Companys ordinary association and the Companies Act 2006. shares and securities convertible into ordinary shares which are, or are to be, paid up wholly in cash and not first offered to existing shareholders.
The Shareholders must provide the Company with an address or so far as the Companys articles of association allow shareholders to authorise directors Companies Act 2006 allows an electronic address or fax number in the for a period specified in the relevant resolution to allot i relevant securities United Kingdom in order to be entitled to receive notices of shareholders generally up to an amount fixed by the shareholders and ii equity securities meetings and other notices and documents.
In certain circumstances the for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive offer up to an amount Company may give notices to shareholders by publication on the Companys specified by the shareholders and free of the pre-emption restriction in website and advertisement in newspapers in the United Kingdom.
At the AGM in 2010 the amount of relevant securities fixed by of the Companys ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the shareholders under i above and the amount of equity securities specified deposit agreement relating to the ADSs.
by shareholders under ii above were both in line with corporate governance guidelines.
The directors consider it desirable to have the maximum Under Section 336 of the Companies Act 2006 the annual general meeting flexibility permitted by corporate governance guidelines to respond to of shareholders must be held each calendar year and within six months of market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance the Companys year end.
business opportunities as they arise.
In order to retain such maximum flexibility, the directors propose to renew the authorities granted by Electronic communications shareholders in 2010 at this years AGM.
Further details of such proposals The Company has previously passed a resolution allowing it to communicate are provided in the 2011 notice of AGM.
all shareholder information by electronic means, including making such information available on the Companys website.
Those shareholders who Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares have positively elected for website communication or are deemed to have There are no provisions in the articles of association whereby persons consented to receive electronic communication in accordance with the acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys Companies Act 2006 will receive written notification whenever shareholder shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage documentation is made available on the website.
although such requirements exist under rules derived from the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
Variation of rights If at any time the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of The basic disclosure requirement upon a person acquiring or disposing shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the of shares that are admitted to trading on a regulated market and provisions of the Companies Act 2006, either with the consent in writing of carrying voting rights is an obligation to provide written notification to the the holders of three quarters in nominal value of the shares of that class or Company, including certain details as set out in DTR 5, where the percentage at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
of the persons voting rights which he holds as shareholder or through his direct or indirect holding of financial instruments falling within DTR 5.3.
1R At every such separate meeting all of the provisions of the articles of reaches or exceeds 3% and reaches, exceeds or falls below each 1% association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that threshold thereafter.
i the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than one third in nominal value of Under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company may, by notice the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum is not present on an in writing, require a person that the Company knows or has reasonable adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the class regardless of cause to believe is, or was during the preceding three years, interested in the the number of shares he holds, ii any person present in person or by proxy Companys shares to indicate whether or not that is correct and, if that may demand a poll and iii each shareholder will have one vote per share person does or did hold an interest in the Companys shares, to provide held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are certain information as set out in the Companies Act 2006.
DTR 3 deals with deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares the disclosure by persons discharging managerial responsibility and their ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in sharing in profits connected persons of the occurrence of all transactions conducted on their or assets of the Company or by a redemption or repurchase of the shares by account in the shares of the Company.
Part 28 of The Companies Act 2006 the Company.
sets out the statutory functions of the Panel on Takeovers & Mergers the Panel.
The Panel is responsible for issuing and administering the Code on Limitations on voting and shareholding Takeovers & Mergers which includes disclosure requirements on all parties As far as the Company is aware there are no limitations imposed on the to a takeover with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree transfer, holding or voting of the Companys ordinary shares other than company and also on their respective associates during the course of an those limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders.
shareholder has any securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 137 Documents on display This section is further based in part upon the representations of the The Company is subject to the information requirements of the Exchange depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement and Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with these any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
requirements the Company files its annual report on Form 20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
These documents may be inspected at the Based on this assumption, for purposes of the treaty and the US-UK double SECs public reference rooms located at 100 F Street, NE Washington, taxation convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK tax purposes, a holder of be obtained in the US by calling the SEC on 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of the shares in the some of the Companys SEC filings, including all those filed on or after Company represented by those ADSs.
Generally exchanges of shares for 4 November 2002, are available on the SECs website www.
ADRs and ADRs for shares will not be subject to US federal income tax or to Shareholders can also obtain copies of the Companys articles of association UK tax other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax see the section on from our website at www.
com governance or from the Companys these taxes below.
Taxation of dividends UK taxation Material contracts Under current UK tax law no withholding tax will be deducted from the At the date of this annual report the Group is not party to any contracts that dividends we pay.
Shareholders who are within the charge to UK corporation are considered material to the Groups results or operations except for its tax will be subject to corporation tax on the dividends we pay unless the US$4.2 billion and 4.2 billion credit facilities which are discussed under dividends fall within an exempt class and certain other conditions are met.
Financial position and resources on page 50.
It is expected that the dividends we pay would generally be exempt.
Exchange controls A shareholder in the Company who is an individual resident for UK tax There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict or purposes in the United Kingdom is entitled, in calculating their liability to UK affect the export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign income tax, to a tax credit on cash dividends we pay on our shares or ADSs exchange controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary shares or on and the tax credit is equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend.
the conduct of the Groups operations.
US federal income taxation Taxation Subject to the PFIC rules described below, a US holder is subject to US federal As this is a complex area investors should consult their own tax advisor income taxation on the gross amount of any dividend we pay out of our regarding the US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal of owning and disposing of shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in tax years beginning before 1 January 2013 that constitute qualified dividend This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, in general income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15% provided terms, the principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the owning or disposing of shares or ADSs in the Company held as capital assets 121 day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does not, however, cover the tax holder meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by us with consequences for members of certain classes of holders subject to special respect to the shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
rules including officers of the Company, employees and holders that, directly A US holder is not subject to a UK withholding tax.
The US holder includes in or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the Companys voting stock.
gross income for US federal income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend actually received from us and the receipt of a dividend does not A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
income tax purposes: Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of a citizen or resident of the US: shares, or the depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively a US domestic corporation: receives the dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income tax deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends regardless of its source: or received from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts outside the United States.
For the purpose of the foreign tax credit limitation, administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all foreign source income is classified in one or two baskets and the credit for substantial decisions of the trust.
foreign taxes on income in any basket is limited to US federal income tax allocable to that income.
Generally the dividends we pay will constitute If a partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax foreign source income in the passive income basket.
treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
A partner in a partnership holding the In the case of shares, the amount of the dividend distribution to be included shares or ADSs should consult its tax advisor with regard to the US federal in income will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments made income tax treatment of an investment in the shares or ADSs.
determined at the spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the date of the dividend distribution regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted This section is based on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, into US dollars.
Generally any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations thereunder, fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is to be published rulings and court decisions, and on the tax laws of the United included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will Kingdom and the Double Taxation Convention between the United States be treated as ordinary income or loss.
Generally the gain or loss will be and the United Kingdom the treaty, all as currently in effect.
These laws income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
138 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Shareholder information continued Taxation of capital gains UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax UK taxation Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any instrument A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on the transferring our shares to the custodian of the depositary at the rate of 1.5% disposal of our shares or ADSs if the US holder is: on the amount or value of the consideration if on sale or on the value of such shares if not on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of a citizen of the United States resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax the price or value of the shares, could also be payable in these circumstances purposes in the United Kingdom: and on issue to such a person but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty a citizen of the United States who has been resident or ordinarily resident equal to such SDRT liability is paid.
A recent ruling by the European Court of for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom, ceased to be so resident or Justice has determined that the 1.5% SDRT charge on issue to a clearance ordinarily resident for a period of less than five years of assessment and service is contrary to EU law.
HMRC have indicated that where new shares who disposed of the shares or ADSs during that period a temporary nonare first issued to a clearance service or to a depositary within the European resident, unless the shares or ADSs were also acquired during that Union, the 1.5% SDRT charge will not be levied.
However, to the extent that period, such liability arising on that individuals return to the UK: the clearance service or depositary is located outside the European Union, a US domestic corporation resident in the United Kingdom by reason of HMRC have indicated that such charge would still apply.
In accordance with being centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom: or the terms of the deposit agreement, any tax or duty payable on deposits of a citizen of the United States or a US domestic corporation that carries shares by the depositary or the custodian of the depositary will be charged on a trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a to the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
branch or agency or, in the case of US domestic companies, through a permanent establishment and that has used the shares or ADSs for the No stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of our ADSs provided that the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation or has used, held or ADSs and any separate instrument of transfer are executed and retained at acquired the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such branch or agency all times outside the United Kingdom.
A transfer of our shares in registered or permanent establishment.
form will attract ad valorem stamp duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
There is no charge to ad valorem stamp duty Under the treaty capital gains on dispositions of the shares or ADSs are on gifts.
generally subject to tax only in the country of residence of the relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the United Kingdom and the SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer our United States and as required by the terms of the treaty.
However, individuals shares in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration who are residents of either the United Kingdom or the United States and for the transfer, but is repayable if, within six years of the date of the who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the UK, as the agreement, an instrument transferring the shares is executed or, if the SDRT case may be at any time during the six years immediately preceding the has not been paid, the liability to pay the tax but not necessarily interest and relevant disposal of shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with respect to penalties would be cancelled.
However, an agreement to transfer our ADSs capital gains arising from the dispositions of the shares or ADSs not only in will not give rise to SDRT.
the country of which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition but also in that other country although, in respect of UK taxation, generally only PFIC rules to the extent that such an individual comprises a temporary non-resident.
We do not believe that our shares or ADSs will be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company PFIC for US federal income tax purposes.
US federal income taxation This conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus is Subject to the PFIC rules described below a US holder that sells or otherwise subject to change.
If we are treated as a PFIC, any gain realised on the sale or disposes of our shares or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US other disposition of the shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar capital gain unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-tovalue of the amount realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US market basis with respect to the shares or ADSs.
Otherwise a US holder dollars, in the shares or ADSs.
Generally a capital gain of a non-corporate US would be treated as if he or she has realised such gain and certain excess holder that is recognised in tax years beginning before 1 January 2013 is distributions rateably over the holding period for the shares or ADSs and taxed at a maximum rate of 15% provided the holder has a holding period of would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which more than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from the gain was allocated.
An interest charge in respect of the tax attributable sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
to each such year would also apply.
Dividends received from us would not The deductibility of losses is subject to limitations.
be eligible for the preferential tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income for certain non-corporate holders.
Additional tax considerations UK inheritance tax An individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention and is not a UK national will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of our shares or ADSs on the individuals death or on a transfer of the shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the performance of independent personal services.
Where the shares or ADSs have been placed in trust by a settlor they may be subject to UK inheritance tax unless, when the trust was created, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a UK national.
Where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the estate tax convention generally provides a credit against US federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
