137 Shareholder information 2011 final dividend Capital gains tax For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share of The directors have recommended a final dividend of 25.8p per share, for the The Weir Group PLC as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p.
This market value has 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011.
Payment of this dividend is subject to been adjusted to take account of the sub-division of the share capital whereby each approval at the 2012 annual general meeting.
Key dates relating to this dividend ordinary share of 25p was sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each on are given below: 28 June 1993.
Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares held, Ex dividend date 2 May 2012 in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every five Record date 4 May 2012 ordinary shares held and in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one Final day for receipt of DRIP elections 11 May 2012 new ordinary share for every four ordinary shares held.
Annual general meeting 9 May 2012 Payment date 1 June 2012 Shareholder enquiries The Companys registrars are: Investor Centre Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways.
Dividends will Bridgwater Road automatically be paid to you by cheque and sent to your registered address unless Bristol, BS99 6ZZ you have chosen one of the options below: Website: www.
Direct payment to your bank: Cash dividends can be paid directly to a UK bank or building society account.
This is more convenient and helps reduce the risk Telephone: 0870 707 1402 of cheques becoming lost or delayed in the post.
The associated tax voucher Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, change of will still be sent direct to your registered address.
To switch to this method address, loss of share certificate, etc.
should be addressed to Computershare.
of payment you can apply online at Computershares secure website www.
co. uk or download a dividend mandate form from Communications the FAQ section of the Companys website www.
co. uk, under Shareholder Information in the Investor section.
Alternatively, you can Annual and interim reports contact Computershare on 0870 707 1402, who will also be able to assist The Weir Group publishes an annual and interim report every year.
The annual with any questions you may have.
report is sent to all shareholders who have elected to receive a hard copy through 2.
Global payment service: If you live overseas, Computershare offers a the post as a printed document unless the shareholder has chosen to receive Global Payment Service which is available in certain countries.
This may e-communications see below.
The interim report is published on the Companys make it possible to receive dividends direct into your bank account in your website and a printed copy is available from the Company Secretary on request.
co. uk or contact E-communications Computershare.
The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to access shareholder 3. Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP : The Company offers shareholders the documents, such as annual reports and notices of AGM, via e-communications opportunity to join the Computershare regulated DRIP to use their dividend to rather than receiving printed documents in the post.
purchase further Weir Group shares.
Instead of receiving cash, shareholders To sign up for e-communications, please register at www.
receive as many whole shares as can be bought with their dividend, taking into In order to do this, you will need your SRN which can be found on your share account related purchase costs.
Any residual cash will be carried forward and certificate or on your dividend tax voucher.
Once registered, you will need to added to their next dividend.
change your mailing preference to e-communications and provide your email Please note that a payment charge would be deducted from each individual payment before conversion into your local currency.
We will then be able to notify you by email as soon as shareholder documents are available on the Companys website.
Consolidated tax vouchers Corporate website Starting in June 2012, the Company will adopt the Consolidated Tax Voucher Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Companys corporate website CTV process in relation to future dividend payments.
This means that rather than www.
co. uk, which contains a wealth of information about the Weir Group.
shareholders receiving a separate tax voucher for each dividend payment made The website includes information about the markets in which we operate, our they will receive a CTV once a year, detailing all payments made throughout that strategy and business performance, recent news from the Group and product year.
The first CTV will be dispatched with the November 2012 dividend mailing to information.
The Investor section is a key tool for shareholders with information on shareholders and contain the tax and payment information for dividends paid during the share price, our financial results, shareholder meetings and dividends, as well the tax year 2011 2012. as a Frequently asked questions section.
You can also download current and past annual and interim reports.
Investor Centre Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website provided by Share dealing services Computershare.
This service allows you to view your share portfolio and see Computershare provide Weir Group shareholders with a quick and easy way the latest market price of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax to buy or sell Weir Group shares on the London Stock Exchange.
information, change your address, update payment instructions and receive your Internet share dealing commission is 1%, subject to a minimum charge of 30. shareholder communications online.
To take advantage of this service, please log in In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
co. uk and enter your Shareholder Reference Number SRN to open an account in order to deal.
Real time dealing is available during market and Company Code WEP.
This information can be found on your share certificate hours.
In addition, there is a convenient facility to place your order outside of market or dividend tax voucher.
Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
To access the service, log on to www-uk.
Shareholders should have their SRN available.
The SRN appears on share certificates and tax dividend vouchers.
A bank debit card will be required for purchases.
Please note that, at present, this service is only available to shareholders in certain European jurisdictions.
Please refer to the Computershare website for an up-to-date list of these countries.
138 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements Shareholder information continued Telephone share dealing commission is 1%, plus 35.
In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
You can contact Computershare on 0870 703 0084.
Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the call.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by telephoning 0870 707 1402.
Please note this service is, at present, only available to shareholders resident in the UK and Ireland.
These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to the applicable terms and conditions.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in The Weir Group PLC.
Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should obtain independent financial advice.
Share values may go down as well as up which may result in a shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
Voting Information on how you can vote electronically can be obtained through our registrars by visiting www.
Shareholder Alerts Unsolicited investment advice and fraud Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas brokers who target shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares, generally in US or UK investments.
These callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and their activities have resulted in considerable losses for some investors.
It is not just the novice investor that has been deceived in this way: many of the victims have been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised for example, in the UK by the FSA before getting involved.
You can check by visiting www.
Any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA, as they also maintain a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors.
This will assist the FSA to keep the list up to date and undertake other appropriate actions as considered necessary.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
Please note that if you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found at www.
