139 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Glossary 2006 Act The Companies Act of 2006, the primary source of UK company law Board The Board of Directors of The Weir Group PLC Company The Weir Group PLC Director A director of The Weir Group PLC E&P Exploration and production EBIT Earnings before interest and tax EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and intangibles amortisation EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and intangibles amortisation EBT Employee benefit trust elastomer An elastic polymer used in pump linings emerging markets Asia-Pacific, South America, Africa and Middle East EPS Earnings per share EHS Environmental, health and safety free cash flow Net cash flow generated from continuing operations excluding the cash impact in relation to acquisitions, disposals and net proceeds from repayments of borrowings Group The Company together with its subsidiaries horizontal rig A directional drilling rig term where the rig is slanted at an angle to facilitate horizontal drilling HR Human resources IASB International Accounting Standards Board IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Independent auditors Ernst & Young LLP Input Orders received from customers like-for-like On a consistent basis, excluding the impact of current year acquisitions LTA Lost Time Accident resulting in lost time of more than 4 hours low carbon industries Nuclear, wind, hydro, solar, biomass and geothermal industries mill circuit The various stages of extracting and processing ore operating margin Operating profit including our share of results of joint ventures divided by revenue ordinary shares The ordinary shares in the capital of the Company of 12.5p each quintuplex A five cylinder reciprocating pump used in the oil and gas market Registrar Computershare Investor Services plc ROCE Continuing operations EBIT excluding exceptional pension gain divided by average net assets excluding net debt, pension deficit net of deferred tax asset and, for 2011, Seaboard net assets RPI UK Retail Prices Index SAG Semi-autogenous grinding mills subsidiary An entity that is controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company TSR Total Shareholder Return comprising dividends paid on ordinary shares and the increase or decrease in the market price of ordinary shares UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice WTI West Texas Intermediate Weir Production System Lean Score Weirs designed lean production process 140 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Other information Notes Annual report and financial statements 2011 Directors report Market overview Market overview Market overview The Weir Group PLC Financial Capital expenditure in the mining sector The North American upstream market The global nuclear market, active in the increased as miners broke ground on a experienced a second year of rapid growth, early part of the year, slowed following the Operational excellence This map is illustrative, but not fully definitive of our locations.
number of greenfield developments and underpinned by increased horizontal drilling Fukushima reactor incident.
Demand for Calendar brownfield expansions.
Activity levels of oil and liquids rich shale formations.
original equipment and spares across increased strongly in South America, Average US horizontal rig count, a leading European and US thermal power markets Australia and Asia-Pacific, while promising indicator of upstream pressure pumping remained subdued although growth progress was seen in North America, demand, increased 22% on 2010, while continued in emerging markets, particularly Africa, Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
greater operating efficiency resulted in India.
Activity picked up in the oil and gas Activity levels in Western Europe remained an estimated 32% increase in horizontal markets with good project activity in the low due to macro economic concerns in wells drilled.
The North Ex-dividend date for final dividend the region.
American hydro power market saw good 2 May 2012 Middle East services markets benefited levels of activity.
While renewables markets Sustained high oil prices supported from oilfield development in Iraq and Saudi remained challenging in Europe, a number increased investment and activity levels Arabia while downstream markets continue of opportunities have emerged across South in the North American oil sands market.
General industrial and Record date for final dividend municipal markets remained subdued while 4 May 2012 unrest in Libya led to the cessation of all Shareholders on the register at this project activity in February 2011. date will receive the dividend Annual general meeting 9 May 2012 Weir Minerals is the global leader in the Weir Oil & Gas designs and manufactures Weir Power & Industrial designs and provision of slurry handling equipment and pumps and ancillary equipment and manufactures valves, pumps and turbines Final dividend paid associated spare parts for abrasive high provides aftermarket service and support as well as providing specialist and support 1 June 2012 wear applications.
Mining and minerals activities principally for the upstream oil and services to the global power generation, constitutes the divisions largest sector gas markets.
The acquisitions of Seaboard industrial and oil and gas sectors.
but it has aligned product sales into niche and Novatech expand the divisions The division has locations in Europe, markets, including oil sands.
Products conventional and unconventional upstream the Middle East, North America, India, include pumps, hydrocyclones, valves, equipment product portfolio to include China, Asia-Pacific and South Africa.
dewatering equipment, wear resistant high-pressure wellhead equipment and a The Weir Group is well established in all three of our chosen 2011 revenue by market linings, rubber products and broadened range of aftermarket pressureThe divisions capability in emerging markets: minerals, oil and gas and power.
markets was strengthened in 2011 with the Minerals 40% our strong manufacturing platform, operational excellence acquisition of a majority stake in HIM Tech, Oil & Gas The division has a presence in the worlds The downstream business occupies a valves manufacturer in South Korea.
and flexible business model combined to enable the 38% key mining markets including South a niche position in the design and Power effective execution and acceleration of our growth 11% America, Australia, Asia-Pacific, manufacture of centrifugal pumps for Industrial plans in rapidly growing markets.
The divisions main 7% operations are in North America, Europe Other 4% and the Middle East with an expanding Our priority of extending our positions in the high growth, long cycle minerals, footprint in Asia-Pacific and South America.
oil and gas and power sectors through customer focus and operational excellence has been underpinned by our drivers of growth, Innovation, Collaboration and Global Capability.
Cautionary statement Facts and figures Facts and figures Facts and figures This annual report contains forward-looking No.
of people c3,050 statements with respect to the financial No.
of businesses 15 condition, operations and performance of 2011 order input 1,263m 2011 order input 865m 2011 order input 312m the Group.
By their nature, these statements 2011 revenue 1,216m 2011 revenue 743m 2011 revenue 307m involve uncertainty since future events Addressable market 4.5bn Addressable market 5.3bn Addressable power market 6bn and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those Designed by Design Motive anticipated.
The forward-looking statements Printed by Royle Print reflect knowledge and information available Major customers Major customers Major customers It is important that our annual report is produced in an environmentally at the date of preparation of this annual report responsible manner, including the sourcing of materials.
The annual report Alcoa Baker Hughes Ameren Missouri is printed in the UK by Royle Print Ltd, a Carbon Neutral printing company, and the Company undertakes no obligation AMEC Cal Frac The Government of Canada using vegetable-based inks.
to update these forward-looking statements.
Anglo American Enerflow CNPEC & CNEIC The material is Revive Pure Uncoated which is certified as 100% recycled by Nothing in this annual report should be Barrick Group Frac Tech Services EADS the Forest Stewardship Council.
The printer and paper manufacturing mill both construed as a profit forecast.
have ISO 14001 accreditation for environmental management.
BHP Billiton Schlumberger EDF Innovation Collaboration Global Capability Codelco Stewart & Stevenson LLC FirstLight Power Resources Customer focus and investment in Weirs collaborative mindset was further Weir is committed to going where its Rio Tinto Surefire Industries PPL Generation Registered office & company number engineering resources led to the successful developed through a range of initiatives customers are and growing its presence in Suncor Energy Trican Well Services Toshiba Corporation Clydesdale Bank Exchange launch of the WBH pump, just one of including a broadened shared engineering fast growing markets.
This was underscored Vale Inco United Engines US Bureau of Reclamation 20 Waterloo Street a number of new or enhanced core services capability in India, eliminating by the acquisition of Seaboard and the Xstrata Weatherford International Westinghouse Glasgow G2 6DB product launches.
acquisition of a majority stake in HIM Tech, Scotland as well as an expansion of the Groups Registered in Scotland service footprint in all its end markets.
Company Number 2934 The Weir Group PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 The Weir Group PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 The Weir Group PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 Directors report The Weir Way The drivers of growth A focus on operational excellence and customer Contents requirements provides the strong operating platform from which the Weir Group drives growth.
We continue Directors report to invest in engineering expertise and technical skills Inside front cover to meet our strategy of prioritising product and service Financial highlights 01 innovation.
The development of collaborative working Chairmans statement 02 practices across the divisions and our expanding Chief Executives review 04 geographic footprint are key enablers of growth as we Driving growth The Weir Way 08 provide our full capability to our chosen end markets.
Key Performance Indicators 14 Operational review 15 Financial review 26 Board of directors 30 Principal risks and uncertainties 32 InnovatIve Corporate governance report 36 1 aCtIon Remuneration report 44 Innovation is at the heart of our processes as we seek to provide Sustainability report 54 existing and new customers with a competitive advantage.
Other statutory information 69 We focus on delivering enhanced product and service capability wherever it is required by investing in people, engineering skills, Financial statements and technology and research to ensure that our products deliver longer other information plant life, extend maintenance cycles, reduce downtime and lower Independent auditors report 71 whole-life operating costs.
In 2011, our innovative action delivered new products into all our end markets and established a research Consolidated income statement 72 partnership to support breakthrough technology development.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 73 Consolidated balance sheet 74 Consolidated cash flow statement 75 CollaboratIve Consolidated statement 2 MIndset of changes in equity 76 Notes to the Group Weir people work together and with customers and partners to financial statements 77 provide the best solutions.
This collaborative approach ensures Independent auditors report 124 that the Groups complete capability can be offered to the end Company balance sheet 125 markets that we serve.
During 2011, through effective collaboration Notes to the Company across our divisions and geographical regions, we offered a broader financial statements 126 product and service portfolio to customers.
Principal companies of the Group 136 Shareholder information 137 Glossary 139 Global Inside back cover Financial The Weir Group PLC calendar and Cautionary statement 3 CaPabIlItY Clydesdale Bank Exchange 20 Waterloo Street Excellent Weirs global capability means delivering consistently excellent Glasgow G2 6DB, Scotland Engineering products and services as we work alongside our customers in Solutions the territories that drive demand in minerals, oil and gas and Telephone: 44 0 141 637 7111 power generation.
Global capability during 2011 has internationalised Facsimile: 44 0 141 221 9789 further our products and services through our existing and expanding routes to market.
