Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance The Board met eight times during the year.
The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule of matters reserved for The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the highest its decision.
These include overall management of the Company: standards of corporate governance.
The principal governance approval of strategic plans including acquisitions and disposals: rules applying to companies with a premium listing of equity approval of the Companys commercial strategy and operating shares on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the UK and capital expenditure budgets: approval of the annual report Corporate Governance Code adopted by the Financial Reporting and financial statements, material agreements and non-recurring Council in June 2010 and available publicly from www.
uk projects: treasury policy: control, audit and risk management: the Code.
The Board confirms that the Company has applied remuneration: and corporate responsibility.
It also delegates the principles of the Code as described in this report and specific responsibilities to the Board Committees detailed below, complied with its provisions throughout the financial year ended the role and responsibilities of each Committee being set out 31 August 2011.
This report also includes the information that is informal terms of reference which are available on the required by DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys corporate Companys website.
All directors have access to the advice and services ofthe The Board Company Secretary and may take independent professional On 13 October 2011, the Board comprised the Chairman, two advice at the Companys expense in thefurtherance of their executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, Short biographies of each of the directors, which illustratetheir Board and Committee papers normally being sent out several range of experience, are set outonpage 30.
There is a clear days before meetings take place.
All newly appointed directors division of responsibility at the head of the Company: WalkerBoyd receive induction training on joining the Board which is tailored Chairman being responsible for runningthe Board and tomeet the needs of the individual, including store visits and KateSwann Group Chief Executive being responsiblefor meetings with employees across the businesses and external implementing strategy.
Jeff Harris hasbeen nominated by advisers.
The need for director training is regularly assessed theBoardas the Senior Independent Director.
structure ensures that no individual orgroup dominates the The performance of the Board and its Committees is a decision-making process.
fundamental component of the Companys success.
The Board Walker Boyd was appointed as a non-executive director on regularly reviews its own performance and carried out a formal 1February 2010 and became Chairman on1 September 2010. evaluation in September 2011.
The evaluation was co-ordinated Walker Boyd, on appointment asChairman, met the and directed by the Chairman with the support of the Company independence criteria set out inthe Code.
A questionnaire covering the main areas of assessment was prepared by the Chairman and the Company Henry Staunton was appointed as a non-executive director on Secretary and formed the basis of in-depth interviews with each 1September 2010. director.
The results of the assessment were considered by the John Barton retired from the Board on 10 June 2011.
Board, and confirmed the strength of the leadership of the Company, a sound governance framework and practices Jeff Harris was appointed as a non-executive director on compliant with the Code.
In addition, an action plan was agreed 10June2011.
which included a number of steps to improve Board effectiveness.
All of the non-executive directors who served duringthe year Annual reviews of the performance of the Nominations, andup to the date of this report areconsidered by the Board Remuneration and Audit Committees have also been carried out tobeindependent.
as part of the Board evaluation.
These reviews have confirmed that eachCommittee continues to operate effectively.
The Group Chief Executive reviews the performance ofthe Group Finance Director and other senior executives.
The Chairman reviews the performance ofthe Group Chief Executive and each non-executive director.
During the year, the Chairman had regular meetings with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, to discuss Board issues and how to build the best possible team.
TheSenior Independent Director met with the non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans performance.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election every three years.
However, in accordance with the Code, the Board hasagreed that all directors will stand for election or re-election at the AGM to be held on 25 January 2012.
Biographies of all thedirectors are set out in the Companys Annual Report andarealso available for viewing on the Companys website www.
WH Smith PLC 22 Annual report and accounts 2011 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Board Committees Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by Walker Boyd and its Audit Committee other members are Mike Ellis, Drummond Hall, Jeff Harris, The Audit Committee is chaired by Mike Ellis, who hasrecent Henry Staunton and KateSwann.
The Committees principal and relevant financial experience, and itsother members are responsibility is to ensure that appropriate procedures are in Drummond Hall, Jeff Harris andHenry Staunton, all of whom place for the nomination, selection and succession of directors are independent non-executive directors.
At the invitation of and senior executives.
theCommittee, the Chairman of the Board, the Group Finance Director, the Internal Audit Director and representatives of the The Committee met three times during the year andits activities external auditors regularly attend meetings.
The Committee has included a review of the Companys succession plans and regular private meetings with the external and internal auditors discussion in respect of the ongoing structure and capability of during the year.
The Committees principal responsibilities cover the Board.
In accordance with the Companys succession plan, internal control and risk management, internal audit, external JohnBarton retired from the Board on 10 June 2011 and was audit including auditor independence and financial reporting.
replaced by Jeff Harris on 10 June 2011.
Theappointment of JeffHarris was made following asearch conducted by external The Committee met four times during the year and its activities consultants and recommendations made to the Committee included: reviewing the preliminary and interim announcements, taking intoaccount the need for diversity in the boardroom.
Annual Report and Financial Statements: considering reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or The Committee keeps itself updated on key developments judgemental issues requiring its attention: approval of audit relevant to the Company, including most recently, on the subject plans for the external and internal auditors: considering reports of diversity in the boardroom.
The Board believes in creating from the Internal Audit Director on the resultsof internal audit throughout the Company a culture free from discrimination in reviews, significant findings, management action plans and any form and is proud of its long history of being regarded as timeliness of resolution: reviewing reports on the Companys aresponsible and respected employer.
Within the Company, risk management process: reviewing management of fraud risk women account for 42 per cent of store managers and 30 per and incidents of fraud: reviewing the Companys Business cent of senior management roles.
The Committee believes in Continuity Plans: and reviewing the effectiveness ofthe providing mentoring for women in senior roles to help them Companys whistleblowing process.
maximise theircareers at the Company.
The Committee has chosen not to set specific representation targets forwomen at The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys Board level at this time.
However, it confirms that thebenefits of financial controls and the systems of internal control by diversity, including gender diversity, will continue to be an active approving the Internal Audit Plans annually and reviewing the consideration when changes totheBoards composition are next findings quarterly, and byreviewing the scope of work and contemplated, within the overriding objective of ensuring that reports of the external auditors.
The Committee also reviews the Board has the appropriate balance of skills, experience and the risk assessment process and corporate business independence.
The risk registers outline thekey risks faced by the Company including their impacts The Committees terms of reference are available onthe andlikelihood along with the relevant mitigating controls Companys website.
Remuneration Committee The Committees terms of reference are available onthe The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Drummond Hall and Companys website.
its other members are Walker Boyd, Mike Ellis, Jeff Harris and Henry Staunton.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Group Chief Executive and representatives of its external independent adviser, attend meetings.
The Committee met six times duringthe year.
The Committees principal responsibility is to determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration of executive directors and the Chairman.
The Committee monitors the levels and structure of remuneration for senior management and seeks to ensure that they are designed to attract, retain and motivate senior management to run the Company successfully.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman and the executive directors.
The Remuneration report is set out on pages 31 to 37.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 23 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued Attendance at Board Committee meetings i Risk The following table shows the number of Board and Committee The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for meetings held during the year ended 31August 2011 and the identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the attendance record of individualdirectors.
Company, including those risks relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was in place throughout the Committee meetings Board year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual meetings Audit Nominations Remuneration Report and meets the requirements of the guidance entitled No.
of meetings 8 4 3 6 Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors produced by Walker Boyd 8 4 3 6 the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
Kate Swann 8 3 4 TheAudit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness Robert Moorhead 8 4 ofthe system of internal control and has reported regularly to theBoard.
John Barton 7 2 2 5 Mike Ellis 8 4 3 6 The key features of the risk management process areas follows: Drummond Hall 8 4 3 6 the business conducts an annual risk assessment based on Jeff Harris 1 1 1 identified business objectives which are reviewed and agreed Henry Staunton 7 4 2 5 by the executive committee ofeach business.
Risks are 1 John Barton retired as a director of the Company on 10 June 2011. categorised into strategic, operational, financial and 2 Jeff Harris was appointed as a director of the Company on 10 June 2011. compliance andare evaluated in respect of their potential 3 Walker Boyd and Robert Moorhead were invited to and attended four meetings of the Audit impact and likelihood.
These risk assessments areupdated Committee.
4 and reviewed quarterly by the Group and business risk Kate Swann was invited to and attended four meetings of the .
committees and are reported tothe relevant business The Board has met twice since 31 August 2011 andallthe executive committee andthe Audit Committee: directors attended both meetings with theexception of a Company risk assessment is also undertaken bythe internal HenryStaunton who attended one meeting.
In addition, the audit function, which considers allareas of potential risk Remuneration Committee has met twice and the Audit across all systems, functions and key business processes.
This Committee has met oncesince 31 August 2011. risk assessment, together with the business risk assessment, forms the basis for determining theinternal audit plan.
Audit Risk management and internal controls reports in relation to areas reviewed are discussed and agreed The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of with the business risk committees and the Audit Committee: internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of management is toimplement the Boards policies on risk and the internal audit team meets annually with seniorexecutives controland provide assurance on compliance with these policies.
in order to complete a formal certification of the effectiveness Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control and risk of internal controls.
These reports are submitted to the management further into theoperations of the business and to business risk committees.
Certificates are also provided by the deal with areasof improvement which come to the attention risk committees to the Audit Committee, to assist the Board in ofmanagement and the Board.
Such a system is, however, conducting its annual review of internal controls in compliance designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to with the Turnbull Guidance.
As part of its annual review the achieve business objectives, andcan only provide reasonable and Board discusses and agrees the principal risks that are not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
included within the Annual Report.
WH Smith PLC 24 Annual report and accounts 2011 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements ii Internal controls b Non-financial controls The Company has established a wide range ofnon-financial a Financial controls controls covering areas such as health and safety, the The Company has an established framework of internal financial environment, ethical trading, employment and business control, the effectiveness of which is regularly reviewed by the continuity, the effectiveness of which areregularly reviewed executive management and the Board.
The key elements of this bythe executive management and the Board.
The key elements are as follows: are as follows: the Board is responsible for overall Company strategy, a corporate responsibility strategy was approved bythe forapproving revenue and capital budgets and plans, Board, including objectives and targets toaddress the impact forapproving major acquisitions and disposals and for that our activities have ontheenvironment, workplace, determining the financial structure of the Company, including marketplace andcommunity: treasury and dividend policy.
Monthly results, variances from plan and forecasts are reported to the Board: clear accountability for corporate responsibility issues has been defined at Board and operationallevel: the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge ofitsduties regarding the Companys financial statements, annual updates are submitted to the Board oneachaspect of accounting policies and themaintenance of proper internal corporate responsibility: business, operational and financial controls.
The Committee the Board is committed to maintaining high standards of provides a direct link between the Board and the external health and safety in all its business activities.
These standards auditors through regular meetings: are set out in the Companys Health and Safety Policy which the Internal Audit function advises and assists business isregularly reviewed by the Board.
The Risk Management management to establish and maintain adequate financial team works with the business to assess health and safety controls and reports to the Audit Committee on the risks and introduce systems to mitigate them.
All notified effectiveness of those controls: accidents are investigated and targets are set to reduce the level of incidence: the Board has established an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and approval controls the Board has approved an Environmental Policy and sets identifying transactions requiring approval by the Board or environmental objectives and specific targets which are bythe Approvals Committee.
The Group Finance Director is reviewed annually: responsible for the functional leadership and development of the Board is committed to ensuring reasonable standards the Companys finance activities: among its suppliers and has approved an Ethical Trading there is a comprehensive system for budgeting andplanning Codeof Conduct setting out the standards it expects its and for monitoring and reporting theperformance of the partners and suppliers to adopt.
This policy covers health Companys business to the directors.
Monthly results are andsafety, child labour, working hours, discrimination reported against budget and prior year, and forecasts for the andtheenvironment: current financial year are regularly revised in the light of the Company is committed to ensuring that its personnel actual performance.
These results and forecasts cover meet good standards of integrity and competence.
profits, cash flows, capital expenditure and balance sheets: TheCompanys systems cover the recruitment, training the Company has established a uniform system ofinvestment anddevelopment of personnel, an appropriate division of appraisal: responsibilities and thecommunication of Company policies and procedures throughout the organisation: and executive management has defined the financial controls and procedures with which each business is required to comply.
Business Recovery Plans exist to enable the business to Key controls over major business risks include reviews continue in the event of a disaster withminimum disruption against performance indicators and exception reporting, and tocustomers.
the business is required to prepare monthly management The Bribery Act came into force on 1 July 2011.
The Company accounts: and has enhanced its policies and procedures inorder to meet the routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and requirements of the Act.
risks, for review by senior executives, and annual reports areprepared for the Board and Audit Committee covering treasury policies, insurance and pensions.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 25 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued Auditor independence The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders at least20 working days before the meeting.
Those shareholders who have elected The Board is satisfied that Deloitte LLP has adequate policies toreceive electronic communications receive notice of the andsafeguards in place to ensure that auditorobjectivity and availability of the annual report on the Companys website.
The external auditors report to Thedeadline for appointing a proxy is 48 hours before thetime theAudit Committee annually on their independence from the fixed for the meeting although, in calculating this period, no Company.
Inaccordance with professional standards, the partner account is taken of non-working days.
responsible for the audit is changed every five years, and last Shareholders vote on each resolution on a show of hands, unless changed in 2009.
The Audit Committee considers whether the a poll is validly called, and after each such vote the number of audit should go out to tender but has taken the view that partner proxy votes received for, against, and withheld is announced.
rotation at both the Group and operating business level has been Theproxy figures are made available in writing at the end of the sufficient to maintain the necessary independence.
There are no meeting, announced to the London Stock Exchange and published contractual restrictions on the Audit Committee as to the choice on the Companys website.
The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of theviews and The Audit Committee has also adopted a formal policy on the concerns of major shareholders.
TheGroup Chief Executive and Companys relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit Group Finance Director update the Board following meetings with work.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
major shareholders and analysts briefings are circulated to the The Audit Committees approval is required in advance for any Board.
When requested to do so, theChairman and non-executive non-audit services to be provided where the fees exceed 25,000. directors attend meetings with major shareholders.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken by Deloitte LLP in 2010 11 related to tax, turnover certificates and advice in relation Compliance with the Code to renewal of banking facilities.
The auditors may only provide such services if such advice does not conflict with their statutory Throughout the year ended 31 August 2011 the Company has responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The Audit Committee been in compliance with the provisionsof the Code.
Chairmans pre-approval is required before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out in the Dividends policy.
For the financial year ended 31 August 2011 the non-audit The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the fees were 69,000 and the audit fee was 281,000. year of 15.3p per ordinary share on2February 2012 to members In line with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee on the Register attheclose of business on 6 January 2012. undertakes a thorough assessment of the quality, effectiveness, This final dividend and the interim dividend of 7.2p perordinary value and independence of the audit provided by Deloitte LLP on share paid on 9 June 2011 makes a totaldividend of 22.5p per an annual basis, seeking the views and feedback of the Board, ordinary share for the yearended 31 August 2011. together withthose of Group and divisional management.
Following the most recent review, the Audit Committee has Share capital determined to recommend to the Board the re-appointment of The issued share capital of the Company, together with details Deloitte LLP at the AGM on 25 January 2012. ofshares issued during the year, are shown in Note 24 to the Relations with shareholders Accounts.
The Boards primary role is to promote the success ofthe The issued share capital of the Company as at 31August 2011 6 Company and the interests of shareholders.
TheBoard is was 139,203,120 ordinary shares of22 p each.
These shares 67 accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities arelisted on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in ofthe Group.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating The Company is not aware of any agreements between withits shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of are understood.
This is achieved principally through the annual securities and voting rights.
report and accounts and the AGM.
Inaddition, a range of There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in corporate information, including all Company announcements theCompany other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and presentations, is available to investors on the Companys andregulations such as insider trading laws and market website, www.
requirements relating to close periods and requirements of the Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders Listing Rules whereby directors and certain employees of the following the announcement of the Companys full year and Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the securities.
principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
Alldirectors normally attend the AGM and are available to answerany questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
WH Smith PLC 26 Annual report and accounts 2011 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Significant agreements change of control shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, cause a number of agreements towhich the Company or acopyof which can be obtained from the Companys website, itstrading subsidiaries, WH Smith High Street Limited and www.
Theholders of ordinary shares are WHSmith Travel Limited, is party, such as commercial trading entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend contracts, banking arrangements, property leases, licence and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint andconcession agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
proxies and to exercise voting rights, and to receive adividend Inaddition, the executive directors service agreements and subject to the deduction of any sums due from the holder of employee share plans would be similarly affected on a change ordinary shares to the Company onaccount of calls or ofcontrol, including, in the case of the directors, in relation to otherwise.
Changes to the Companys Articles of Association compensation for loss of office.
must be approved by special resolution of the Company.
Details of the change of control clause contained in the service The Trustee of the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust holds contracts of the executive directors can befound in the ordinary shares in the Company on behalf of the beneficiaries of Remuneration report on page 34. the Trust, who are the employees and former employees of the Group.
If any offer is made to the holders of ordinary shares to Directors conflicts acquire their shares, the Trustee will not be obliged to accept The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to orreject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a timesubject to subsisting options, but will have regard tothe director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, interests of the option holders and can consult them to obtain with the interests ofthe Company Situational Conflicts.
their views on the offer, and subject tothe foregoing, the Trustee TheBoard has a formal system in place for directors to declare will take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
Situational Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those Purchase of own shares directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
Indeciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the At the 2011 AGM, authority was given for the Company to non-conflicted directors must act in the way they consider, purchase, in the market, up to 22,415,020 ordinary shares of ingood faith, would be most likely to promote the success of 6 22 67p each.
The Company used this authority to purchase and theCompany, and they may impose limits or conditions when subsequently cancel 11,509,145 of its own shares during the giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is financial year, representing 8.27 per cent of the called-up share appropriate.
Any Situational Conflicts considered by the Board, capital, at an average price of 474p.
The aggregate amount of and any authorisations given, are recorded in the Board minutes consideration paid by the Company for the purchases was 55m.
and in a register of conflicts which is reviewed regularly by This authority is renewable annually and approval will be sought theBoard.
from shareholders at the AGM in 2012 to renew the authority fora further year, given that on 31 August 2011 the Company Companys shareholders announced its intention to make a further return of up to 50m The Company has been notified in accordance with the of cash to shareholders via a rolling share buyback programme.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services During the period 1 September 2011 to 13 October 2011 the Authority that, as at the date of this report, the following Company purchased and subsequently cancelled afurther shareholders own more than three per cent of the issued 297,000 of its own shares representing 0.21per cent of the sharecapital of the Company: called-up share capital, at an average price of 485p.
% as at Theaggregate amount of consideration including costs paid date of Nature of bythe Company for the purchases was 2m.
Holder Number notification Holding Lloyds Banking Groupplc 14,068,654 10.00 Indirect Issue of new ordinary shares BlackRock Inc. 13,623,926 9.64 Indirect During the financial year ended 31 August 2011, 163,515 ordinary Artemis Investment shares of the Company were issued under the Sharesave Management LLP 7,693,764 5.50 Direct Scheme at prices between 295.20p and 400.40p.
The Articles of Jupiter Asset Management Association of the Company provide that the Board may, subject Limited 7,787,536 4.96 Indirect to the prior approval of the members of the Company, begranted JP Morgan Chase & Co. 7,428,306 4.74 Indirect authority to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Legal & General Group Plc 5,614,443 3.74 Direct shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security Except for the above, the Company is not aware of any ordinary into shares, including new ordinary shares.
shareholders with interests of three per cent or more in the issued share capital of the Company.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 27 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued Board of Directors The Directors report that they have reviewed current performance and forecasts, combined withexpenditure The names of the directors as at the date of this report, together commitments, including capital expenditure, proposed dividends with biographical details, are set outon page 30.
All the directors and share buyback, and borrowing facilities.
After making served throughout the period except as set out below: enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue its current Henry Staunton was appointed as a director on 1September 2010. operations, including contractual and commercial commitments John Barton retired from the Board on 10 June 2011 and was for the foreseeable future despite the current uncertain economic replaced by JeffHarris with effect from 10 June 2011. outlook.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going The Companys Articles of Association give a power tothe Board concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
to appoint directors and, where notice isgiven and signed by all the other directors, remove adirector from office.
The Companys Auditors Articles of Association themselves may be amended by special Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continuein office as resolution of the shareholders.
Aresolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP The Companys Articles of Association require that directors as auditors tothe Company and a resolution to authorise the offerthemselves for re-election every threeyears and that new directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the directors appointed by the Board offer themselves for election AGM.
atthe next AGM following their appointment.
However, in Disclosure of information to auditors accordance with the Code, the Board has agreed that all directors will stand for election or re-election at the AGM.
Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as eachofthe directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as The interests of the directors and their immediate families in defined in Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the theshare capital of the Company, along with details of directors Companys auditors are unaware, and each of the directors has share options and awards, are contained in the Remuneration taken all steps he or she should have taken as a director in order report on pages 31 to 37. to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit At no time during the year did any of the directors havea material information and to establish that the Companys auditors are interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover forany legal action brought against The AGM of the Company will be held at JPMorganCazenove, its directors.
TheCompany has also provided an indemnity for 20Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA on 25January 2012 at 11.30am.
itsdirectors, which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision The Notice of Annual General Meeting is given, together with for the purposes of Section 234 ofthe Companies Act 2006. explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
Financial risk management This report was approved by the Board on13October2011.
The financial risk management and policies of the Group are disclosed in Note 23 of the Accounts.
By Order of the Board Going concern Ian Houghton The Groups business activities together with the factors that Company Secretary arelikely to affect its future developments, performance and position are set out in this Directors report and business review.
13 October 2011 This Directors report and business review also describes the Groups financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, further information on which is detailed in Notes 20 to23 of the Accounts.
In addition, Note 23 of the Accounts includes the Groups objectives, policies andprocesses for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures tocredit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors report and business review also highlights the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative andhas a committed multi-currency revolving credit facility of 70m.
WH Smith PLC 28 Annual report and accounts 2011
