54 Consolidated financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards The adoption of the amendment to IAS 17 Leases has resulted in Group accounting policies a derecognising long-lease land premiums previously classified General information within non-current asset lease prepayments, and the current Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company element classified within debtors: and b recognising a incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act corresponding increase in the closing net book value of leasehold 2006 Registration number 358949.
The Company is domiciled land and buildings to reflect the carrying value of the leased assets.
in the United Kingdom and its registered address is Hilmore House, The impact on previously disclosed costs and net book value for Gain Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL, United Kingdom.
each of the balance sheet dates of 30 January 2011, 31 January 2010 and 1 February 2009 is detailed in notes 11 and 15.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks The Group has assessed the present value of future minimum ended 30 January 2011 2010: 31 January 2010 in accordance lease payments and considers these obligations to be immaterial with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and for disclosure.
International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee interpretations IFRIC as adopted by the European Union and The depreciation rate on the newly classified leases is consistent with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to with the annual amortisation charge incurred on the previous companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS and IFRIC are issued by lease prepayments.
Therefore there is no impact on profit for the International Accounting Standards Board the IASB and must the period for the year ended 30 January 2011, or reserves of be adopted into European Union law, referred to as endorsement, comparative periods.
before they become mandatory under the IAS Regulation.
Shown below are recent standards and interpretations that have been There is no impact on earnings per share previously disclosed.
issued by the IASB, indicating their status of endorsement.
New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations The financial statements have been prepared on a going There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the concern basis.
The Directors assessment of going concern has IASB that are effective for financial statements after this reporting been considered within the general information section of the period.
The following have not been adopted by the Group: Directors report.
Effective for The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, rounded International Financial accounting periods to the nearest million, except in some instances, where it is deemed Reporting Standards starting on or after relevant to disclose the amounts up to one decimal place.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting, IAS 24 Related party disclosures 1 January 2011 except for share-based payments and derivative financial revised instruments, which are measured at fair value, and pension IFRS 7 Amendment to Financial 1 July 2011 scheme liabilities that are measured using actuarial valuations.
instruments: Disclosures on derecognition The Groups accounting policies are set out below and have, IAS 12 Amendment to Income 1 January 2012 unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
taxes on deferred tax IFRS 9 Financial instruments 1 January 2013 Business combinations International Financial Reporting IFRS 3 revised Business combinations and consequential Interpretations Committee amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements, IAS 28 Investments in associates and IAS 31 Interests in IFRIC 14 IAS 19 Prepayment of a 1 January 2011 joint ventures, are effective prospectively to business combinations minimum funding for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the requirement amendment first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial 1 July 2010 liabilities with equity During the period, the Group has made two acquisitions as set instruments out in note 27, and the requirements of these standards have been applied in accounting for these transactions.
The Groups These standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the European Union.
accounting policy under the new standards is set out within significant accounting policies.
The application of these standards and interpretations is not anticipated to have a material effect on the Groups Long-leasehold land financial statements.
The amendment to IAS 17 Leases is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
During the period, the Group has reassessed the classification of unexpired land leases between operating and finance leases.
Leases newly classified as finance leases have been accounted for retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, and the required disclosures have been made.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011
