49 Strategic review 4 21 General information Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 The Directors report and business review Share capital Pages 2 to 51 inclusive of this Annual report consist of a Directors The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company, report and business review that has been drawn up and presented together with details of shares allotted during the year, are shown in accordance with, and in reliance on, English company law.
in note 22 of the Group financial statements.
The liabilities of the Directors in connection with that Directors report and business review shall be subject to the limitations At the AGM of the Company held in 2010, a special resolution was and restrictions provided by the Companies Act 2006. passed to renew the authority given at the AGM held in June 2009 to the purchase by the Company of up to 262,983,160 ordinary Forward-looking statements shares representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary The Directors report is prepared for the members of the Company share capital at that time.
This authority remained valid on and should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other 31 January 2011.
During the period the Company did not purchase purpose.
Where the Directors report includes forward-looking any of its own shares pursuant to that authority, which will expire statements, these are made by the Directors in good faith based at the close of the 2011 AGM.
on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
Consequently such statements should be treated In addition, 6,666,293 ordinary shares were issued during the with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both period to employees exercising share options.
economic and business risk factors, underlying such forwardlooking statements and information.
Borrowing powers The Articles of Association of the Company restrict the borrowings Result and dividend of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings to a maximum The profit for the period after taxation attributable to the owners amount equal to twice the share capital and consolidated reserves.
of the Company amounted to 632m 2009 10: 598m.
The Directors have declared and recommend the following dividends: Substantial shareholdings As at 9 March 2011 the Company had been notified by the m following shareholders excluding Directors that they have interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: Paid interim dividend of 1.23p per share 32 2009 10: 1.08p Number % of of shares holding Recommended final dividend of 8.37p per share 222 2009 10: 7.12p Black Rock Inc 265,248,903 9.98 Invesco 133,357,656 5.02 The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the Annual Brandes Investment Partners LP 132,155,077 4.97 General Meeting AGM, is to be paid on 15 June 2011 to ordinary Ameriprise Financial Inc 131,284,252 4.90 shareholders on the register of members at close of business on Nigel Pritchard 112,883,882 4.25 13 May 2011.
If the final dividend is approved by shareholders, Walter Scott & Partners Ltd 107,775,155 4.06 the total ordinary dividend for the year will be 9.60p per share.
Legal & General Group Plc 104,976,462 3.94 Auditors Susan Pritchard 94,720,169 3.56 A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and a Zurich Financial Services 81,286,130 3.06 separate resolution to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The number of shares appearing above is that appearing in the relevant notification to the Company.
The percentage appearing Annual General Meeting above is the percentage that number represents of the issued The notice of the 2011 AGM of the Company to be held at the share capital of the Company as at 9 March 2011.
Companys headquarters at Gain Lane in Bradford on 9 June 2011 is to be sent to shareholders with an accompanying explanatory Relating to beneficial owners of shares with letter from the Chairman.
The Directors believe each of the information rights resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are in the best interests Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the of the Group and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of registered holder of those shares to receive information rights each of them.
Shareholders will also receive notification of the under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to availability of the results on the Groups website, unless they direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares have positively elected to receive a printed version of the results.
rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, or to the Group directly.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011 50 General information continued Directors Disclosure of information to auditors The current Directors of the Group and their biographies are shown The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this on page 33.
Marc Bolland resigned from the Board on 1 February Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 2010 and Johanna Waterous was appointed as a Non-Executive is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are Director on the same day.
Martyn Jones retired from the Board on unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he or she ought 9 September 2010.
On 31 January 2011, the Company announced to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any that Mark Gunter will step down from the Board at the 2011 AGM, relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups scheduled for 9 June 2011, and will leave the Group in June 2012. auditors are aware of that information.
Paul Manduca served on the Board throughout the year and retired from the Board on 9 March 2011.
Going concern The Directors assessment of the Group and the Companys ability On 9 March 2011, Brian Flanagan informed the Board that he will to continue as a going concern has taken into consideration the step down from the Board at the 2011 AGM.
effect that the current economic climate has on the Group.
In line with the best practice guidance of Provision B.
7.1 of the The Groups ability to borrow cash has not been adversely affected UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has resolved that by the continuing lack of liquidity in the financial markets and all Directors will submit themselves for re-election annually.
the Group has negotiated and has available to it committed, competitive facilities that will meet the Groups needs in the short Accordingly, save for Mark Gunter and Brian Flanagan, who will and medium term.
both step down from the Board at the 2011 AGM, all of the current Directors, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at The principal risks that the Group is challenged with have been the 2011 AGM.
set out on page 20 along with how the Directors mitigate these risks in the current economic climate.
The interests of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company and their immediate families in the shares of the After reviewing the Groups financial forecasts including an Company, along with share options, are contained in the assessment of working capital and other medium term plans, Directors remuneration report set out on pages 39 to 48. the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group have adequate financial resources available to continue in At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The going interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of concern basis has continued to be adopted in the preparation its subsidiaries.
Employee relations Payment to creditors Morrisons is an Equal Opportunities employer.
Equal Opportunities Supplier credit is an important factor in the success of the business.
are offered to all regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic It is Group policy to ensure all payments are made within mutually origin, sex including gender reassignment, marital or civil agreed credit terms.
Where disputes arise the Group attempts partnership status, disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, to sort these out promptly and amicably to ensure delays in age or trade union membership.
payment are kept to a minimum.
Trade creditors for the Group at the financial year end represented 28 days of purchases The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for 2010: 29 days.
employment made by people with disabilities.
The policy is to offer equal opportunity to all disabled candidates and employees who Groceries Supply Code of Practice have a disability or become disabled in any way during the course The Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP came into effect of their employment.
A full assessment of the individuals needs on 4 February 2010.
GSCOP replaced the existing Supermarket is undertaken and reasonable adjustments are made to the work Code of Practice.
environment or practices in order to assist those with disabilities.
The new code, which applies to all grocery retailers with annual All candidates and employees are treated equally in respect of turnover in excess of 1bn, was part of a package of remedies recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment introduced to address a number of issues identified by the policies and conditions.
All decisions are based on relevant Competition Commission at the conclusion of its market merits and abilities.
investigation into the supply of groceries in the UK.
Political and charitable donations Prior to implementation of GSCOP, the Group appointed a Code During the period the Group made charitable donations Compliance Officer and provided comprehensive training to in amounting to 0.1m 2010: 0.1m.
The donations were mainly excess of 650 colleagues who work with the GSCOP code in their small donations to support local communities.
In addition the everyday dealings with suppliers.
As required under the provisions Group supported various charities and in the year over 1.3m of GSCOP, training has also been provided to all new employees 2010: 1.8m was raised by customers and colleagues for the who will be subject to the GSCOP code.
Charity of the Year and 0.4m raised for the Pakistan flood appeal.
No political donations were made, which is Group policy.
During the period since implementation, matters relating to GSCOP have been reported to the Board, through appropriate sub-committees, on a periodic basis.
Although only recently implemented, the GSCOP process appears to be working well.
The Board will continue to keep the important issue of GSCOP compliance under close supervision.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 51 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Health and safety policy The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which It is the Groups intention, so far as is reasonably practicable, is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all its employees, exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards customers and visitors to its premises.
In order to achieve this, as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class or classes a comprehensive health and safety manual is in place for each from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may division of the Company and subsidiary companies within the likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more Group.
Each health and safety manual contains the policy and than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other procedures for complying with the Health and Safety at Work restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than Act 1974, including the provision, based on risk assessment, certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws of safe working practices for all work activities across the and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Groups health and safety policy is approved by the Management Board.
The Group has adopted the national The Company is not aware of any agreements between targets set by the Health and Safety Commission for the reduction shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of of workplace accidents and work-related ill health, and is on course securities or voting rights.
to meet or exceed these targets.
Health and safety performance is monitored to ensure continuous improvement in all areas.
Appointment and powers of Directors Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting Additional shareholder information of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint Additional information for shareholders is required by the a Director during the year but any person so appointed must be put implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK Law.
up for appointment at the next AGM.
Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law Company is required to disclose certain additional information.
and to such direction as may be given by the Company in general Such disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this report, meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall include the following paragraphs.
The disclosures set out below be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the are in some cases a summary of the relevant provisions of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company Companys Articles of Association and the relevant full provisions in general meeting.
can be found in the Articles which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether Other disclosures in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual Company may from time-to-time by ordinary resolution determine or other arrangements which are essential to the business of or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors the Group.
The Company is not party to any significant arrangements which At a general meeting of the Company every member has one vote take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the on a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to The Company does not have any employee share schemes where resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
the shares to which the scheme relates have rights with regard to the control of the Company which are not exercisable by employees.
No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting By the order of the Board or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice Greg McMahon under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers Company Secretary upon public companies the power to require information with 9 March 2011 respect to interests in their voting shares, and he or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
