14 Chief Executives business review continued Acquisitions and Our Operational Plan investments We have developed a detailed plan designed to deliver our vision to be Different and Better than Ever.
Our Differences are explained Farmers Boy Deeside In the first half of the year, we acquired in the strategy section above.
Our opportunity to be Better than a cooked meat production plant which Ever rests in our belief that there are still numerous areas of our will add to our existing capacity and business that could be operated more effectively or efficiently allow us to produce nearly all of our requirements in-house.
with the help of investment in systems and infrastructure.
The Plan has three areas of focus: driving sales, increasing efficiency and capturing growth.
Simply Fresh We also acquired Simply Fresh in Driving sales the first half of the year, a stir fry Reinforcing what makes us different will ensure we win with the increasingly valueand prepared vegetable business.
demanding, health-conscious and time-starved UK consumer.
It will add capacity and enable us to consolidate our sourcing of all Our key point of difference is in the provision of great value fresh food, and we plan these products in-house.
to extend our lead still further, exploiting our unique food preparation skills to establish clear ground between us and the rest of our competitors.
We are trialling a range Kiddicare of exciting new concepts in-store which will help us to do this.
In February 2011 we purchased The best and quickest source of new sales space is to make more effective use of what kiddicare.
com, a specialist retailer we already have.
We are planning to liberate space in our stores for new categories operating in the baby and infant by rebalancing our existing range.
Trials are underway to establish the most effective merchandising category.
We intend means of achieving this but results to date suggest that we could, as a first stage, to grow the business organically and liberate up to 10% of the existing centre store space in our 20,000 to 40,000 square believe it will bring us four key benefits: feet stores and more in larger stores which would then be available for new products its sophisticated technology: and categories.
Subject to a successful trial, rollout of Project Liberate will begin in 2012, with the prospect of creating up to an additional 0.75m square feet of selling its speed and agility to react to space in the business, equivalent to approximately a full years new store programme.
the market that a large corporate finds difficult: Our proportion of own label sales lags behind our competitors, despite our vertical it is multi-channel and allows us to integration providing us with a real opportunity to offer differentiated products, retail online and in store kiosks: and and to build a strong own brand.
We intend to develop our brands strongly, and to that end have, for the first time, created a separate management structure to oversee it has best-in-class logistics which this 6bn business.
is a primary challenge for online product fulfilment.
Increasing efficiency We can only offer real value to our customers, invest in service in-store, improve returns to shareholders and drive growth for the future by being as efficient as possible across the business.
The replacement of our ageing systems through our Evolve programme and the enhancement of our constrained distribution network, both of which are well advanced, are key to delivering efficiencies throughout the business.
A strong culture of cost control exists within Morrisons.
We are planning to build upon this through our Excavate project in which the responsibility for purchasing goods not for resale will be centralised and costs driven out of the business, and through our Fresh Working trial, which seeks to improve the way in which we operate our stores.
Capturing growth FreshDirect New York New space We have invested in a c10% stake in Morrisons is the fourth largest grocery retailer in the UK.
We remain under-represented FreshDirect, a profitable, fast growing in many parts of the country and we estimate that there are some 6.8m households in the and highly successful internet grocer UK who are not located within a convenient 15 minutes drive time from a Morrisons store.
serving the New York market.
This is a higher target customer base than any of our three larger competitors.
A key part FreshDirect has a well established of our strategy, therefore, is to increase the number of Morrisons stores.
In 2010 we set infrastructure and profitable operating an objective to add 1.5m square feet of selling space in the three years to January 2013. model which Morrisons can learn from.
Our first year target was 400,000 square feet and we are pleased to have met this.
With our new property team now in place we have an opportunity to capture space more quickly and accordingly are now targeting to deliver 2.5m square feet of new space in the 3 years to January 2014, in addition to the space to be created through the Liberate project.
Food production At our interim results in September 2010, we announced our intention to invest a further 200m in extending the range of our food production capability, enhancing our point of difference in producing the food we sell.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 15 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Convenience The convenience sector is the second fastest growing part of the grocery market and as such is an area that we are evaluating carefully.
Our success in operating smaller stores in recent years has given us the confidence that we can offer customers something different, with great fresh food.
We will explore the opportunity of extending our customer reach with a three store trial during 2011 under the name M local.
We are pleased to have identified the trial locations, the first of which will open in July.
E-commerce In September at our interim results we also announced that we would undertake research into the e-commerce channel, recognising that the fastest growing sector in grocery retailing is online shopping.
As we researched this channel, we became convinced that Morrisons should be transacting online, as our customers wish The second is a 32m investment in FreshDirect, a profitable, fast us to offer this option.
Our research has shown that to do this growing and highly successful internet grocer serving the New York effectively has significant challenges and that building such market.
We will be taking a c10% stake in the company, with a seat capabilities from scratch takes time.
We believe we can build a on the Board and the opportunity to embed a team of Morrisons profitable business online, and we are therefore now committing people in the business to learn how it operates.
They have been to launch Morrisons.
com, for both grocery and non-food products, building their business for 12 years, are profitable and growing in the coming two years.
We believe our investment will, itself, be highly successful, but that the learning we will get from In support of this goal, we are delighted to be making two it will be invaluable.
This investment is the first step in developing investments that we believe will help us to launch our e-commerce the offer that we will ultimately launch in the UK.
activities successfully in the future, and in an accelerated way.
These two investments will help us to learn from the very best, The first is the acquisition, previously announced, of kiddicare.
We believe as a result we will get to the right for 70m.
This is a highly successful, specialist retailer operating in answers faster in both grocery and non-food internet retailing.
the baby and infant merchandise category.
It has a truly innovative approach to e-commerce and to serving its customers, and operates We are determined that in both these new channels of online an extremely well built technology platform.
We intend to grow and convenience we will offer customers something which is this business organically, under the continuing leadership of Scott distinctively Morrisons.
and Elaine Weavers-Wright, two of the best known retailers in UK e-commerce.
We believe the business, its products and its customers UK grocery retail market will fit extremely well alongside Morrisons.
In addition to the The consumer continued to face a difficult economic environment kiddicare.
com acquisition, we are also acquiring absolutely the during the year.
Tax increases, the threat of public sector spending rights to the kiddicare.
com operating and technology platform.
cuts, rising unemployment and the lack of credit all contributed This extremely well built, flexible platform will put Morrisons in to weak consumer confidence, whilst disposable incomes were an early position to launch its e-commerce operation for general also squeezed by inflation increasing at a rate higher than the merchandise categories, and we expect to launch this gradually targets set by the Government.
Despite the significant increase from the Spring of 2012. in promotional and price activity in the market, the cost of an average shopping basket rose year-on-year, partly due to the weakness of Sterling.
Kantar, a leading market research company, reported that in 2010 grocery market growth was 3.4%, the lowest level of growth for five years, with Morrisons equivalent market growth Just 22 hours of 4.5%.
Kantar reported that inflation during the year was 2.3%, although the level faced by our customers in Morrisons British sweetcorn can arrive in a Morrisons stores was lower than this.
store just 22 hours after being picked.
We anticipate that the market will experience a similar low level of growth in 2011, and that we will see a slight rise in prices due to the continuing emergence of some commodity price pressures including grain and oil.
In this environment we expect the market to remain strongly competitive.
Morrisons great value credentials and focus on high quality fresh foods leave us well placed to continue to be successful in the projected low growth environment.
Our financial strength allows us to invest for the long term to deliver our strategy.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
