55 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Basis of consolidation b Other sales The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Other revenue primarily comprises income from concessions and statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, being those commissions based on the terms of the contract and manufacturing undertakings that it controls.
Control is achieved where the sales made direct to third party customers recognised on despatch Company has the power to govern the financial and operating of goods.
Revenue collected on behalf of others is not recognised policy of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its as turnover, other than the related commission.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the net of value added tax and intra-group transactions.
preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting period as the Parent Company and are Cost of sales based on consistent accounting policies.
The results of subsidiaries Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the manufacturing, warehouse and transportation costs.
Store consolidated financial statements from the effective date of depreciation, store overheads and store-based employee costs acquisition up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
are also allocated to cost of sales.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or Supplier income income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are collectively referred eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
to as supplier income in the retail industry.
Supplier income is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales on an accruals basis Significant accounting policies based on the expected entitlement which has been earned up to The Directors consider the following to be significant accounting the balance sheet date for each relevant supplier contract.
The policies in the context of the Groups operations: accrued incentives, rebates and discounts receivable at year end are included within prepayments and accrued income.
Where Segmental reporting amounts received are in the expectation of future business, The Group is required to determine and present its operating these are recognised in line with that future business.
segments based on the way in which financial information is organised and reported to the chief operating decision-maker Other operating income CODM.
During the period there has been an internal Other operating income primarily consists of income not directly reorganisation of the senior management structure, leading to the related to the operating of supermarkets and mainly comprises foundation of the Management Board see page 35 for discussion rental income from investment properties and income generated of the role of this board and details of its members.
Following this from recycling of packaging.
Rental income arising from operating reorganisation, the CODM has been identified as the Management leases on investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line Board as it is this Board that makes the key operating decisions of basis over the lease term.
Details of rental income from investment the Group.
Previously the CODM was reported as being the property are provided in note 12.
Property transactions The Directors consider, based on its internal reporting framework Property includes the balance sheet headings of Property, and management and operating structure, that it has one operating plant and equipment and Investment property.
The results segment, that of grocery retailing.
The level of disclosure of of transactions relating to disposal of property are reported segmental and other information is driven by such assessment.
in profit for the period under Profit arising on property Further details of the considerations made and the resulting transactions.
Depreciation and any impairment charges or disclosures are provided in note 3 to the financial statements.
reversals are recognised in cost of sales or administrative expenses, as appropriate.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when significant risks and rewards of Borrowing costs ownership have been transferred to the buyer, there is reasonable All borrowing costs are recognised in the Groups profit for the certainty of recovery of the consideration and the amount of period on an effective interest rate basis except for interest costs revenue, associated costs and possible return of goods can be that are directly attributable to the construction of buildings and estimated reliably.
other qualifying assets which are capitalised and included within the initial cost of the asset.
Capitalisation of interest ceases when a Sale of goods in-store and fuel the asset is ready for use.
Sale of goods in-store is recorded net of value added tax, staff discounts, coupons, vouchers and the free element of multi-save transactions.
Sale of fuel is recognised net of value added tax and Morrisons Miles award points.
Revenue is recognised when transactions are completed in-store.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011 56 Group accounting policies continued Deferred and current tax The excess of consideration transferred, the amount of any The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date laws in effect during the period and any adjustments to tax payable fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over in respect of previous periods.
Taxable profit differs from the profit the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets as reported in profit for the period as it is adjusted both for items acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value that will never be taxable or deductible and temporary differences.
of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a Current tax is charged to profit for the period, except when it bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in profit relates to items charged or credited directly in equity in which for the period.
case the current tax is reflected in equity.
Goodwill arising on a business combination is not amortised but Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method.
is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently Provision is made for temporary differences between the carrying if there are indicators that goodwill may be impaired.
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
No deferred tax is b Software development costs recognised for temporary differences that arise on the initial Costs that are directly attributable to the creation of identifiable recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of assets and software, which meet the development asset recognition criteria liabilities that is not a business combination and that affects as laid out in IAS 38 Intangible assets are recognised as intangible neither accounting nor taxable profits.
Deferred tax is calculated assets.
Direct costs include consultancy costs, the employment based on tax law that is enacted or substantively enacted at the costs of internal software developers and borrowing costs.
reporting date and provided at rates expected to apply when Borrowing costs are capitalised until such time as the software the temporary differences reverse.
Deferred tax is charged or is substantially ready for its intended use.
credited to profit for the period except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred All other software development and maintenance costs are tax is reflected in equity.
recognised as an expense as incurred.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Computer software development costs recognised as assets that taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be are amortised over their estimated useful lives 3 to 10 years utilised.
Deferred tax assets recognised are reviewed at each on a straight-line basis.
reporting date as judgement is required to estimate the availability of future taxable income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are c Licences not discounted and are offset where amounts will be settled on Separately acquired pharmaceutical licences and software licences a net basis as there is a legally enforceable right to offset.
are recognised at historic cost.
Those acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make Pharmaceutical licences and software licences are amortised over judgements and estimates of ultimate exposures in relation to tax their useful lives 3 to 10 years on a straight-line basis.
All accruals are included in current liabilities.
Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets a Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less a Business combinations and goodwill accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for Costs include directly attributable costs.
Annual reviews are made business combinations by the Group.
The consideration transferred of estimated useful lives and material residual values.
for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued b Depreciation rates used to write off cost less residual value by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value on a straight-line basis are: of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration Freehold land 0% arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Freehold buildings 2.5% Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their Leasehold land Over the lease period fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  Leasehold buildings Over the shorter of lease period and 2.5% basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the Plant, equipment, fixtures and vehicles 1033% acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Assets under construction 0% Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 57 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Investment property Lessor accounting finance leases Property held to earn rental income is classified as Investment The Group does not lease any assets on a finance lease basis.
Investment property is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
The depreciation Lessee accounting operating leases policy is consistent with that described for property, plant and Rental payments are taken to profit for the period on a straight-line equipment.
basis over the life of the lease.
Property leases are analysed into separate components for land and buildings and tested to establish Income from investment properties is disclosed in Other operating whether the components are operating leases or finance leases.
income and details are shown in note 12 Investment property.
The related operating costs are immaterial and are included within Lessee accounting finance leases Administrative expenses.
The present value, calculated using the interest rate implicit in the lease, of the future minimum lease payments is included within Impairment of non-financial assets Property, plant and equipment and financial liabilities as an Property, plant and equipment, Investment property and Intangible obligation to pay future rentals.
Depreciation is provided at the assets are annually reviewed for indications of impairment, or same rates as for owned assets, or over the lease period, if shorter.
when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
This is performed for each cash Rental payments are apportioned between the finance charge generating unit, which in the case of a supermarket is an individual and the outstanding obligation so as to produce a constant rate retail outlet.
If there are indications of possible impairment then of finance charge on the remaining balance.
a test is performed on the asset affected to assess its recoverable amount against carrying value.
An asset impaired is written down Provisions to its recoverable amount which is the higher of value in use or its Provisions are created where the Group has a present obligation fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated as a result of a past event, where it is probable that it will result future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a in an outflow of economic benefits to settle the obligation from pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments the Group, and where it can be reliably measured.
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Provisions are made in respect of individual properties where If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset that there are obligations for onerous contracts, dilapidations and had been previously impaired, then this is recognised by reversing certain decommissioning obligations for petrol filling stations.
the impairment, but only to the extent that the recoverable The amounts provided are based on the Groups best estimate amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have of the likely committed outflow to the Group.
Where material, been determined if no impairment loss had been recognised these estimated outflows are discounted to net present value.
Foreign currencies Stocks Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
exchange at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in purchase price, import duties and other non-recoverable taxes foreign currency are retranslated at the rates of exchange at the less rebates.
Stocks represent goods for resale.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in profit for the period.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make Retirement benefits the sale.
The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme Leases under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership entity.
A defined benefit scheme is one that is not a defined are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases: all contribution scheme.
Pension benefits under defined benefit other leases are classified as finance leases.
schemes are defined on retirement based on age at date of retirement, years of service and a formula using either Lessor accounting operating leases the employees compensation package or career average Assets acquired and made available to third parties under operating revalued earnings.
leases are recorded as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Operating lease income is charged on a straight-line basis to the date of the next rent review.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011 58 Group accounting policies continued The Group operates two defined benefit retirement schemes which ii Cash and cash equivalents are funded by contributions from the Group and members.
The Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes includes defined benefit schemes are not open to new members.
Pension cash-in-hand, cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts together with scheme assets, which are held in separate trustee administered short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible funds, are valued at market rates.
Pension scheme obligations are into known amounts of cash, with an insignificant risk of a measured on a discounted present value basis using assumptions change in value, within three months from the date of acquisition.
The operating and financing costs of the In the balance sheet bank overdrafts are presented within scheme are recognised separately in profit for the period when current liabilities.
Death-in-service costs are recognised on a straight-line basis over their vesting period.
Actuarial gains and losses are b Financial liabilities recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
i Trade and other creditors Trade and other creditors are stated at cost.
The Group has a right to recognise an asset, should one arise, in respect of the Groups net obligations to the pension schemes.
ii Borrowings Therefore either an asset or a liability is recognised in the balance Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded sheet, calculated separately for each scheme.
at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, any difference between the redemption Payments by the Group to the defined contribution scheme value and the initial carrying amount is recognised in profit for are charged to profit for the period as they arise.
the period over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain c Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value of the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant value, which normally equates to cost, and are remeasured at and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period fair value through profit or loss.
with a corresponding increase in equity.
This is based on the Groups estimate of share options that will eventually vest.
This Cash flow hedges takes into account movement of non-market conditions, being Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow service conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk Fair value is measured by use of a binomial stochastic model.
associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based probable forecasted transaction.
on managements best estimate, for effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To minimise the risk from potential movements in energy prices, the Group has energy price contracts which are designated as Financial instruments cash flow hedges.
To minimise the risk from potential movements Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups in foreign exchange rates, the Group uses forward exchange balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
In the prior provisions of the instrument.
year, the Group had a cross-currency swap designated as a cash flow hedge.
This derivative financial instrument, which matured a Financial assets during the current financial year, was used to match or minimise i Trade and other debtors risk from potential movements in foreign exchange rates inherent Trade and other debtors are carried at the lower of their original in the cash flows of certain financial liabilities.
invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to Derivatives are reviewed quarterly for effectiveness.
Where a recover balances in full, with the charge being recognised in derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the Administrative expenses in profit for the period.
Balances are variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or being remote.
loss on the movement in fair value of the derivative financial instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 59 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately b Pension scheme assumptions and mortality table recognised in profit for the period within Cost of sales in relation The carrying value of defined benefit pension schemes is to the energy price contracts and within Finance income costs valued using actuarial valuations.
These valuations are based in relation to the cross-currency swap.
If a hedge of a forecast on assumptions including the selection of mortality tables for transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial the profile of members in each scheme.
All these are estimates of asset or liability, the associated cumulative gains or losses that future events.
The mortality experience study conducted as part were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into profit for of the Safeway scheme triennial valuation is statistically significant the period when the transaction occurs.
and the longevity assumption is adjusted to reflect its results.
As both of the Groups schemes have a similar composition and type Net debt of members, this adjustment is also made to the Morrisons scheme.
Net debt is cash and cash equivalents, long term cash on deposit, The mortality assumptions, financial assumptions and mortality bank and other current loans, finance lease debt, bonds and experience study are based on advice received from the schemes derivative financial instruments stated at current fair value.
Where appropriate these are corroborated from time-to-time with benchmark surveys and ad-hoc analysis.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly c Determination of useful lives, residual values and carrying attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in values of Intangible assets, Property, plant and equipment, equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
and Investment property Depreciation is provided so as to write down the assets to their Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity residual values over their estimated useful lives as set out in the share capital, the consideration paid, including directly attributable accounting policies for Intangible assets, Property, plant and incremental costs, is deducted from retained earnings until the equipment and Investment property.
The selection of these shares are cancelled.
On cancellation, the nominal value of the residual values and estimated lives, particularly in respect shares is deducted from share capital and the amount is transferred of plant and equipment, requires the exercise of judgement.
to the capital redemption reserve.
The Group is required to assess whether there is indication Treasury shares of impairment to the carrying values of assets.
In making that The Group has an employee trust for the granting of Group shares assessment, judgements are made in estimating value in use.
to executives and members of the employee share plans.
Shares The Directors consider that the individual carrying values of in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as stores and other operating assets are supportable either by treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction value in use or market values.
The shares are deducted for the purpose of calculating the Groups earnings per share.
Use of critical accounting assumptions and estimates Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
a Property provisions Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations and decommissioning costs.
These provisions are estimates based on the condition of each property and market conditions for the relevant location.
The actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
