89 Strategic review 4 21 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Company financial statements Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 52 weeks ended 30 January 2011 under UK GAAP Investor information 102 105 Financial instruments Company accounting policies Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Companys Basis of preparation balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the These separate financial statements of Wm Morrison Supermarkets contractual provisions of the instrument.
PLC the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historic cost convention, except for share-based a Financial assets payments and derivative financial instruments, which are measured i Trade and other debtors: Trade debtors are carried at the lower at fair value, and pension scheme liabilities that are measured using of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision actuarial valuations and in accordance with applicable accounting is made when there is objective evidence that the Company will not standards under UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006. be able to recover balances in full, with the charge being recognised in the profit and loss account.
Balances are written off when the The following accounting policies have been applied consistently probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
ii Cash: Cash includes cash-in-hand, cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts together with short-term, highly liquid investments Accounting reference date that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash, with The accounting period of the Company ends on the Sunday falling an insignificant risk of a change in value, within three months between 29 January and 4 February each year.
from the date of acquisition.
In the balance sheet bank overdrafts are presented within current liabilities.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less b Financial liabilities provision for impairment.
Trade and other creditors: Trade and other creditors are stated at cost.
Fixed assets Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and c Derivative financial instruments accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include directly attributable Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value, costs.
Annual reviews are made of estimated useful lives and which normally equates to cost, and are remeasured at fair value material residual values.
Depreciation Cash flow hedges The policy of the Company is to provide depreciation at rates which Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow are calculated to write off the cost less residual value of tangible hedges when they hedge the Companys exposure to variability fixed assets on a straight-line basis.
The rates applied are: in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk Freehold land 0% associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Freehold buildings 2.5% probable forecast transaction.
Leasehold improvements Over the shorter of lease To minimise the risk from potential movements in energy prices, period and 2.5% the Company has energy price contracts which are designated Plant, equipment, 1033% as cash flow hedges.
fixtures and vehicles Assets under construction 0% Derivatives are reviewed quarterly for effectiveness.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the Fixed assets are reviewed for indications of impairment when variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or amount may not be recoverable.
This is performed for each income loss on the movement in fair value of the derivative financial generating unit, which in the case of a supermarket is an individual instrument is recognised directly in equity through the retail outlet.
If there are indications of possible impairment then statement of total recognised gains and losses STRGL.
a test is performed on the asset affected to assess its recoverable amount against carrying value.
An asset impaired is written down The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately to its recoverable amount which is the higher of value in use or its recognised in the profit and loss account within cost of sales.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time cumulative gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
are reclassified into the profit and loss account when the transaction occurs.
If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset that had been previously impaired, then this is recognised Capital management by reversing the impairment, but only to the extent that the The capital management policy of the Company is consistent with recoverable amount does not exceed the carrying amount that that of the Group set out in note 18. would have been determined if no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011 90 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company accounting policies continued 52 weeks ended 30 January 2011 under UK GAAP Borrowing costs Provisions All borrowing costs are recognised in the Companys profit and Provisions are created where the Company has a present legal loss account on an accruals basis except for interest costs that or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, where are directly attributable to the construction of buildings and other it is probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits qualifying assets which are capitalised and included within the to settle the obligation from the Company, and where it can be initial cost of the asset.
Capitalisation of interest ceases when the reliably measured.
Provisions are made in respect of individual properties where Pension costs there are obligations for onerous contracts, dilapidations and The Company operates defined benefit and defined contribution certain decommissioning obligations for petrol filling stations.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under The amounts provided are based on the Companys best estimate which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
of the likely committed outflow to the Company.
Where material, A defined benefit scheme is one that is not a defined contribution these estimated outflows are discounted to net present value.
Pension benefits under defined benefit schemes are defined on retirement based on age at date of retirement, years of Leases service and a formula using either the employees compensation Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership package or career average revalued earnings.
are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases: all other leases are classified as finance leases.
The Company has no The Company operates a defined benefit retirement scheme which finance leases.
is funded by contributions from the Company and members.
The defined benefit scheme is not open to new members.
Pension Lessor accounting operating leases scheme assets, which are held in separate trustee administered Assets acquired and held for use under operating leases are funds, are valued at market rates.
Pension scheme obligations are recorded as fixed assets and are depreciated on a straight-line basis measured on a discounted present value basis using assumptions to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
The operating and financing costs of the Operating lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis to the scheme are recognised separately in the profit and loss account date of the next rent review.
in the period in which they arise.
Death-in-service costs are recognised on a straight-line basis over their vesting period.
Lessee accounting operating leases Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the STRGL.
Rental payments are taken to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
The Company has a right to recognise an asset, should one arise, in respect of the Companys net obligations to the pension Deferred and current taxation schemes.
Therefore either an asset or a liability is recognised Current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the year using in the balance sheet, and is stated net of deferred tax.
tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from the profit as reported in the profit and loss account as it is A liability or asset is recognised in the balance sheet in respect adjusted both for items that will never be taxable or deductible of the Companys net obligations to the scheme and is stated and timing differences.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result The Company also operates a stakeholder pension scheme in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply as they arise.
when they crystallise, based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from Foreign currencies the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of computations in different periods from those in which they are exchange at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet included in the financial statements.
date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are retranslated at the rates of exchange at Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets are included in the profit and loss account for the period.
and liabilities are not discounted.
Stocks Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises purchase price, import duties and other non-recoverable taxes less rebates.
Stocks represent goods for resale.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 91 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Share-based payments The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair value of the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
This is based on the Companys estimate of share options that will eventually vest.
This takes into account movement of non-market conditions, being service conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
The fair value of equity-settled awards granted is not subsequently revisited.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial stochastic option pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for effects of nontransferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The cost of the share-based award relating to each subsidiary is calculated based on an appropriate apportionment, and recharged between the parent company and the subsidiary.
Financial contracts Where the Company enters into financial contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other Companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company has purchased its own equity share capital, the consideration paid, including directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled.
On cancellation, the nominal value of the shares is deducted from share capital and the amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
Exemptions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statement and exemption from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures.
The cash flows of the Company and financial instruments disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Parties from disclosing related party transactions with wholly owned entities that are part of the Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Group.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a profit and loss account for the Company.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
