152 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2011 which comprises the Company profit and loss account, the Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 71 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 July 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Opinion on other matter In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent companys financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
At the request of the directors, we have also audited the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2011.
Stuart Watson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 4 October 2011
