How were rewarded  Composition of the Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee regularly reviews fixed and variable compensation against appropriate benchmarks both During 2011, the Compensation Committee comprised internal and external.
When making decisions on executive the following: compensation, the committee is briefed on the remuneration Jeffrey Rosen chairman of the committee : levels within the Group.
This includes, for example, the Colin Day: consideration of salary increases across the organisation when Esther Dyson: determining executive salary increases.
In addition, the Philip Lader: and committee approves the design of incentive plans and reviews Tim Shriver.
all awards made under those incentive plans.
No member of the committee has any personal financial WPP is committed to aligning executive performance interest other than as a share owner as disclosed on page and reward with share owner interests.
From a compensation 143 in the matters to be decided by the committee, potential perspective, this is encouraged in a number of ways: conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or Total Shareholder Return TSR has been chosen as day-to-day involvement in running the Groups businesses.
the performance measure for the LEAP plans as it represents The terms of reference for the Compensation Committee a strong objective measure of the success of the Company are available on the Companys website and will be on as far as share owners are concerned: display at the AGM, as set out in the Notice of AGM.
share ownership is encouraged for the WPP Leaders approximately the top 230 executives, all of whom have stretching ownership goals: Advisors to the Compensation Committee all eligible employees, approximately 47,000, are given a share ownership opportunity through participation in The Compensation Committee regularly consults with Group the Worldwide Ownership Plan: and executives, particularly the Group chief executive who is not the majority of the compensation package of executive present when matters relating to his own compensation or directors is paid in the form of shares comprised of deferred contracts are discussed and decided, the Company Secretary, share bonus and long-term incentive awards under the the chief talent officer and the worldwide director of LEAP plans.
The latter two individuals provide The following charts show the breakdown of total target a perspective on information reviewed by the committee and remuneration for the executive directors in 2011 and 2012, are a conduit for requests for information and analysis from illustrating both the significant element of pay linked to the Companys external advisors.
Towers Watson are the performance, and the alignment of interests with share committees appointed compensation advisors: they did owners through the proportion of compensation payable not provide any other material services to the Group.
The committee receives external advice on all matters pertaining to the determination of fair and appropriate compensation packages for the executive directors, including Sir Martin Sorrell competitive practices in comparator companies.
Salary fees 10% Fixed 15% Pension 5% The link between compensation Cash bonus 12%  Share bonus 12% LEAP 61% WPP competes on the basis of its intellectual capital and Variable 85% services.
This intellectual capital is created entirely by its people, and the committee endeavours to strike the right balance of fairness between its people and share owners.
For this reason, the design of all executive compensation at WPP is governed by three guiding principles: In relation to 2011, while the target bonus was to be split performance-driven reward: half in cash and half in deferred shares, the Compensation competitiveness: and Committee determined that, for Sir Martin only, 40% of the alignment with share owner interests.
bonus achieved would be paid in cash and 60% in deferred These three principles are themselves derived from both shares ESA further increasing alignment with share owner our mission statement see page 12 and our six business interests.
