Our 2011 financial statements Accountingpolicies over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including plans together with financial due diligence performed in intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually Subsequent adjustments to the fair value are recorded or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances in the consolidated income statement within revaluation indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of of financial instruments.
For acquisitions completed prior goodwill is compared to the net present value of future to 1 January 2010, such adjustments are recorded in the cash flows derived from the underlying assets using a consolidated balance sheet within goodwill.
projection period of up to five years for each cash-generating unit.
After the projection period a steady growth rate representing an appropriate long-term growth rate for Property, plant and equipment the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less Corporate brand names, customer relationships and accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment proprietary tools acquired as part of acquisitions of with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
businesses are capitalised separately from goodwill as The Group assesses the carrying value of its property, plant intangible assets if their value can be measured reliably on and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
initial recognition and it is probable that the expected future Where this indicates that an asset may be impaired, the Group economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow applies the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets to the Group.
in assessing the carrying amount of the asset.
This process Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered to includes comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying have an indefinite economic life because of the institutional value.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write nature of the corporate brand names, their proven ability off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a to maintain market leadership and profitable operations straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows: over long periods of time and the Groups commitment to Freehold buildings 50 years.
develop and enhance their value.
The carrying value of these Leasehold land and buildings over the term of the lease intangible assets is reviewed at least annually for impairment or life of the asset, if shorter.
and adjusted to the recoverable amount if required.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-10 years.
Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write Computer equipment 3-5 years.
off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: Acquired intangibles Interests in associates and joint ventures Brand names with finite lives 10-20 years.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant Other proprietary tools 3-10 years.
In certain circumstances, significant influence may Other including capitalised computer software 3-5 years.
be represented by factors other than ownership and voting rights, such as representation on the Board of Directors.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of associate Contingent consideration undertakings net of tax, interest and non-controlling interests is included in the consolidated income statement Contingent consideration is accounted for in accordance and the Groups share of net assets is shown within interests with IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations.
in associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of share of the profits less losses and net assets is based on contingent consideration earnout agreements are initially current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted recorded at fair value which is the present value of the to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
expected cash outflows of the obligations.
The obligations The Group assesses the carrying value of its associate are dependent on the future financial performance of the undertakings to determine if any impairment has occurred.
interests acquired typically over a four to five year period Where this indicates that an investment may be impaired, following the year of acquisition and assume the operating the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing companies improve profits in line with directors estimates.
the carrying amount of the investment.
This process includes The directors derive their estimates from internal business comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
