Our 2011 financial statements Accountingpolicies Retirement benefit costs Operating leases For defined contribution plans, contributions are charged Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated to the consolidated income statement as payable in respect income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or discount on the acquisition of a lease is For defined benefit plans the amounts charged to operating spread over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis.
profit are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in Translation of foreign currencies the consolidated income statement if the benefits have vested.
If the benefits have not vested, the costs are recognised over Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading the period until vesting occurs.
The interest cost and the activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of expected return on assets are shown within finance costs the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in and finance income respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the year-end are recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses are credited comprehensive income.
or charged to the consolidated income statement as they arise.
Where defined benefit plans are funded, the assets of The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings the plan are held separately from those of the Group, in are translated into pounds sterling at average exchange rates separate trustee-administered funds.
Pension plan assets and the year-end net assets of these companies are translated are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on at year-end exchange rates.
an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on opening net assets and on foreign currency borrowings a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in to the plan liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at such operations are reported in the consolidated statement least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
Recognition of a surplus in a defined benefit plan is Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the limited based on the economic gain the company is expected acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and to benefit from in the future by means of a refund or liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
reduction in future contributions to the plan, in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Share-based payments Finance leases The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments including share options to certain employees and accounts Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based of the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower Payment.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured of their fair value and the present value of the minimum at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based lease payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged vesting conditions at the date of grant.
Details regarding to the consolidated income statement on the same basis as the fair value of equity settled share-based transactions owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting are set out in notes 22 and 26. of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged The fair value determined at the grant date is to the consolidated income statement as it is incurred.
recognised in the consolidated income statement as an expense on a straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
