How were rewarded Compensation Committee report onbehalfofthe Board Dear share owner every two years mark only the second time in the last ten years that salary and incentive compensation have been adjusted.
011 has been another strong year, indeed a record The revisions incorporate constructive input from share owners year, for WPP, building on our growth in 2010. and their representatives during the consultation process.
The 2 Our compensation policy has long been linked to committee recognises that the subject of executive compensation the performance of the Group, with a particular focus on is particularly contentious in the current political and delivering strong relative returns over the longer term to governance environment.
We are sensitive to all the related you, our share owners.
The use of performance-driven issues and to our fiduciary obligation to make decisions, compensation ensures the continued alignment of share sometimes difficult and challenging, that we believe to be in owner and executive interests and is essential to enable the the best interests of both our share owners and the Group.
Company to attract, retain and motivate the most gifted The new package has been shaped by WPPs guiding principles talent in the industry.
on compensation, among them our commitment to provide fully In 2011 the Group delivered excellent performance.
competitive remuneration opportunities, including the potential Highlights included billings of almost 45 billion, profit for superior rewards for exceptional performance.
The changes before tax breaking the 1 billion barrier for the first time are also designed to reflect the substantial increases in the and a 38% increase in dividends per share.
This strong Groups size and complexity since the last review in 2007, performance is reflected in the rewards received under and to provide an overall level of opportunity that is our incentive plans by our executive directors.
commensurate with the importance of Sir Martin Sorrells Following our 2011 AGM we recognised that a number of contributions to the Groups success.
The committee is of the our share owners had issues with some aspects of the Groups view that the revisions ensure that the Group chief executives executive compensation arrangements.
The Compensation compensation is clearly linked to and supports the Groups Committee took into account the feedback from share owners strategic objectives, and that the reward levels are properly in its continuing review of our long-term incentive plan, calibrated to challenging performance conditions.
LEAP, and as part of the ongoing review of the Group chief In summary, the other matters dealt with by the committee executives compensation, consideration of which began in 2011 were: in 2010, and factored this feedback into the final decisions.
supervising the Groups equity incentive plans that While details of all elements of compensation and any are critical to the attraction and retention of talent: changes made to these matters are set out in the following pages, overseeing the Groups cash incentive programs and I would like to highlight the key decisions and changes below: approval of the awards to the most senior business leaders As part of our culture of leading in matters of corporate below the Board: and governance, we have already sought to adopt some of the reviewing developments in areas of corporate disclosure measures currently being proposed by the UK governance and ensuring the Companys compliance Government including greater transparency on short-term with regulatory changes.
incentive measures and a table showing a single figure for As in previous years, I would like to thank my fellow executive directors total compensation.
committee members for their continued support as well The LEAP III comparator group has been expanded, as the members of management who provided invaluable effective 2011, to include Nielsen, to reflect the greater assistance to the committee.
significance of the consumer insight business within WPP and the emergence of Nielsen as a major public company.
Jeffrey Rosen The revisions in the Group chief executives compensation Chairman of the Compensation Committee structure which, along with the compensation structures of the 20 April 2012 other executive directors and senior management, are reviewed WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 129
