Our 2011 financial statements Accountingpolicies The Group accounts for joint venture investments under and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives the equity method which is consistent with the Groups and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly Other investments effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Other investments are designated as available for sale and Note 25 contains details of the fair values of the are shown at fair value with any movements in fair value derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated On disposal the cumulative gain or loss previously and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or recognised in equity is included in the profit or loss for loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value the year.
of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow or Inventory and work in progress net investment hedges is deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes outlays profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is assignments.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs where hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a appropriate.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred realisable value.
in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging Trade receivables instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised doubtful debts.
in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity Foreign currency and interest rate hedging is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or The Groups policy on interest rate and foreign exchange rate other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when management sets out the instruments and methods available their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those to hedge interest and currency risk exposures and the control of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the The Group uses derivative financial instruments to consolidated income statement.
reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
to require the Group to purchase a non-controlling interest The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective recorded in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value and as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the the valuation is remeasured at each period end.
Fair value recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the is based on the present value of expected cash outflows and hedge relationship.
the movement in the fair value is recognised as income or At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity expense within revaluation of financial instruments in the documents the relationship between the hedging instrument consolidated income statement.
