Our 2011 financial statements Accountingpolicies Derecognition of financial liabilities act as an agent or as a principal in an arrangement with a client.
Where we act as an agent, the revenue recorded is the In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: net amount retained when the fee or commission is earned.
Recognition and Measurement, a financial liability of the Although the Group may bear credit risk in respect of these Group is only released to the consolidated income statement activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that when the underlying legal obligation is extinguished.
we consider that we are acting as an agent on their behalf.
In such cases, costs incurred with external suppliers such as media suppliers are excluded from our revenue.
Where Convertible debt the Group acts as a principal and contracts directly with suppliers for media payments and production costs, the Convertible debt is assessed according to the substance of revenue recorded is the gross amount billed.
the contractual arrangements and is classified into liability Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both and equity elements on the basis of the initial fair value quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related of the liability element.
The difference between this figure to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when the and the cash received is classified as equity.
quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element The consolidated income statement charge for the finance related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when cost is spread evenly over the term of the convertible debt so the incentive is received or receivable.
that at redemption the liability equals the redemption value.
The Group receives volume rebates from certain suppliers for transactions entered into on behalf of clients that, based on the terms of the relevant contracts and local law, are either Other debt remitted to clients or retained by the Group.
If amounts are passed on to clients they are recorded as liabilities until Other interest-bearing debt is recorded at the proceeds settled or, if retained by the Group, are recorded as revenue received, net of direct issue costs.
Consumer Insight Borrowing costs Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the consolidated performed for market research contracts is based on income statement over the term of those borrowings.
In assessing contract performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of performance.
The Revenue recognition primary input of all work performed under these arrangements is labour.
As a result of the relationship between labour and Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in respect cost, there is normally a direct relationship between costs of amounts billed.
Direct costs include fees paid to external incurred and the proportion of the contract performed to suppliers where they are retained to perform part or all of date.
Costs incurred as a proportion of expected total costs a specific project for a client and the resulting expenditure is is used as an initial proportional performance measure.
directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is stated This indicative proportional performance measure is exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
subsequently validated against other more subjective criteria i. e. relevant output measures such as the percentage of Advertising and Media Investment Management interviews completed, percentage of reports delivered to a client and the achievement of any project milestones stipulated Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media in the contract.
In the event of divergence between the objective placements and fees for advertising services.
Revenue may and more subjective measures, the more subjective measures consist of various arrangements involving commissions, take precedence since these are output measures.
fees, incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, While most of the studies provided in connection as agreed upon with each client.
with the Groups market research contracts are undertaken Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, in response to an individual clients or group of clients in accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
specifications, in certain instances a study may be developed The amount of revenue recognised depends on whether we as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to a broad client 148 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011
