Our 2011 financial statements Accountingpolicies base.
For these transactions, revenue is recognised when the made to the Groups tax liabilities and deferred tax assets product is delivered.
Where the terms of transaction provide and liabilities where necessary.
for licensing the product on a subscription basis, revenue is The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for recognised over the subscription period on a straight-line the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in basis or, if applicable, based on usage.
the consolidated income statement because it excludes items Substantially all services are provided on a fixed price of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for a surcharge years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or where the actual labour hours incurred in completing a deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated project are significantly above the labour hours quoted in using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, the enacted by the balance sheet date.
surcharge will be included in the total revenue base on Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or which to measure proportional performance when the recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts actual threshold is reached provided that collectability of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the is reasonably assured.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding & method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable Identity, Healthcare and Specialist Communications temporary differences unless specifically excepted by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available to be performed subject to specific agreement.
Revenue is against which deductible temporary differences can be recognised when the service is performed, in accordance utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue is the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can of goodwill or other assets and liabilities other than in a be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the business combination in a transaction that affects neither consolidated income statement revenue and related costs the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be Taxation available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at current rates.
temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where payable and deferred tax.
the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number difference and it is probable that the temporary difference of different jurisdictions and judgement is required in will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
determining the appropriate provision for transactions Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
In such a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against circumstances, the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes taxes based on the best information available and where the levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends anticipated liability is both probable and estimable.
Such to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
liabilities are classified as current when the Group expects Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are to settle the liability within 12 months and the remainder as expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled non-current.
Any interest and penalties accrued are included or the asset is realised based on enacted or substantively in income taxes both in the consolidated income statement enacted legislation.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in and balance sheet.
Where the final outcome of such matters the consolidated income statement, except when it relates differs from the amount recorded, any differences may to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
the period in which the final determination is made.
The tax laws that apply to the Groups subsidiaries may be amended by the relevant tax authorities.
Such potential amendments are regularly monitored and adjustments are WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 149
