How we behave Sustainability we submit this sustainability section of our Annual Report All employees must undertake our online ethics training, for share owner vote at our AGM.
In 2011 we responded to entitled How we behave, which is based on the WPP Code requests for information and engagement by the following of Conduct, and covers topics such as diversity, responsibility investment organisations: to stakeholders and avoiding misleading work.
It uses scenarios ASN Bank to help our people identify and respond appropriately to ethical BNP Paribas issues they may encounter in their work.
Employees must also Carbon Disclosure Project complete our online training on anti-bribery and corruption, Dow Jones Sustainability Index which covers the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Ethical Investment Research Service EIRIS Act 2010 and issues such as hospitality and gifts.
By the end of EthiFinance 2011, over 100,000 of our people had undertaken both sets of FTSE4Good training.
We intend to refresh both training courses during 2012.
IDEAM GMI Goldman Sachs WPP is included in the Dow Jones Oekom Sustainability Index andthe FTSE4Good Sustainanalytics Index.
We were ranked 41 out of 500 Sycomore Asset Management Vigeo inNewsweek magazines Green WPP is included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Rankings 2011 and the FTSE4Good Index.
We were ranked 41 out of 500 in Newsweek magazines Green Rankings 2011.
Most engagement with stakeholders takes place as part of everyday business.
To supplement this, in January 2012, In 2011 we appointed a compliance officer to oversee we held a stakeholder meeting to obtain feedback from our approach to ethics and compliance and to provide support investors, clients and sustainability experts.
Issues raised and guidance to our operating companies.
She reports to our by participants at this meeting included our approach to Group chief counsel and director of internal audit.
integrating sustainability across the Group, commercial Employees can report any concerns or suspected cases of opportunities relating to sustainability in marketing, our misconduct in confidence through our third party-managed approach to managing ethical issues in client work and our Right to Speak facility, overseen by our internal audit policy on issues such as tax and lobbying.
This is publicised through induction packs, the the feedback and will respond where possible.
Group intranet, the WPP Policy Book and our ethics training.
WPP is a member of a number of organisations There were 42 calls made via Right to Speak during 2011. working to improve practices in aspects of sustainability.
These include: Business in the Communitys diversity initiatives: The impact of our work Opportunity Now and Race for Opportunity Employers Forum on Disability We believe that the marketing industry can play an important The Media Trust role in helping to create a more sustainable society.
For example, The Institute of Business Ethics by developing communications that make sustainable products, services and lifestyles more desirable, and by helping brand Embedding ethical behaviour owners to deepen their understanding of sustainability issues and changing consumer and societal attitudes.
All our people are expected to comply with the standards set Our goal is for WPP to be a centre of excellence for out in our Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy.
These sustainability communication, giving our clients the best provide guidance for our people in dealing with a wide range advice and enhancing consumers understanding of of ethical, social and environmental subjects and are available sustainability issues.
on our website and intranet.
Our approach encompasses research and insight, To reinforce the importance of meeting high ethical branding and strategy advice, and consumer and stakeholder standards, the senior management of each WPP company are communications.
We are seeing growing demand for these required to sign a statement annually confirming that they services, with sustainability becoming embedded into an comply with WPPs Code of Conduct.
Our Code of Conduct increasing number of marketing briefs.
is supported by more detailed policies which cover a range of We also create social marketing campaigns, usually for issues, such as gifts and entertainment and the appointment government or NGO clients, tackling issues related to public of advisors.
These are included in the WPP Policy Book.
health, safety or the environment.
They are designed to raise awareness or encourage people to change their behaviour.
