How were rewarded  Management share incentive plans Compensation in 2012 The Company uses share-based compensation methods Having set out the Compensation Committees decisions and across the workforce, which not only helps the Company to the changes to compensation during 2011, the committee incentivise, retain and recruit talent, but also encourages a wishes to keep share owners informed of the policy that it strong ownership culture among employees.
Share awards intends to apply in 2012.
This policy can be summarised as: are granted under the Restricted Stock Plan, and share option the base salary and fees of all executive and non-executive awards are granted to employees under either the Executive directors will be unchanged: Stock Option Plan or the Worldwide Ownership Plan.
pension contributions and cash allowances for the The Restricted Stock Plan is used to satisfy awards under executive directors will be unchanged: the short-term incentive plans including the ESAs as well as executive directors entitlement to STIP and ESA to grant awards under the WPP Leaders, Partners and High opportunity will be unchanged: Potential program.
This program is used to reward, retain executive directors entitlement to participate in LEAP and align the interests of about 1,250 of our key executives will be unchanged: and with the interests of share owners.
In the program, awards LEAP performance measures will be reviewed and are made to participants that vest three years after grant, if changes are thought appropriate, share owners will provided the participant is still employed within the Group.
Executive directors are ineligible to participate in the WPP The committee will also continue to monitor the UK Leaders, Partners and High Potential program, although they Governments proposed changes in the area of executive pay are eligible to receive ESAs under the Restricted Stock Plan.
and the consequential implications on disclosure and future The Executive Stock Option Plan is used to make special pay policy.
grants of options in order to attract or retain key talent.
One award was granted to an employee in 2011 none were granted in 2010.
The Worldwide Ownership Plan is an all-employee plan that makes annual grants of stock options to employees with two years of service who work in wholly-owned subsidiaries.
During 2011, awards were made to over 47,000 employees.
By 31 December 2011, options under this plan had been granted to approximately 110,400 employees over 49.2 million shares since March 1997.
Executives who participate in one of the other share plans described above are ineligible to participate in this plan.
Share incentive dilution for 2001 to 2011 The share incentive dilution level, measured on a 10-year rolling basis, has remained constant at 4.4% at 31 December 2011 4.4% 2010.
It is intended that awards under all plans, other than share options, will all be satisfied with purchased shares held either in the ESOPs or in treasury.
