About share ownership  Access numbers Ticker symbols Tax information NASDAQ Reuters Bloomberg The Company continues to operate the Dividend Access Plan which allows share owners who have elected or, by virtue of Ordinaryshares WPP.
O WPPGYUS holding 100,000 or fewer shares, are deemed to have elected to participate in the plan to receive cash dividends from a UK source WPP DAS Limited without being subject to any Irish or UK withholding taxes.
Following share owner approval at Online information the 2011 Companys General Meeting, the Board has put in place a Scrip Dividend Scheme which enables share owners WPPs public website, www.
com, provides current to elect to receive new fully paid ordinary shares in the and historical financial information, news releases, Company instead of cash dividends, this scheme commenced trading reports and share price information.
Go to with the second interim dividend for 2010. www.
UK taxation Registrar and transfer office Income tax on cash dividends Cash dividends received from WPP plc or from WPP DAS Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited Limited via the Dividend Access Plan, by individual share Queensway House owners resident in the UK will generally be subject to UK Hilgrove Street income tax on the gross amount of any dividends paid by WPP St Helier before deduction of Irish withholding tax if any with a tax Jersey credit equal to one-ninth of the dividend received: tax credits are JE1 1ES not repayable to UK holders with no tax liability.
Individuals Enquiry number: 0870 707 1411 whose income is within the lower or basic tax rate bands are liable to tax at 10% on the dividend income and the tax credit will satisfy their income tax liability on UK dividends.
For American Depositary Receipts ADRs office higher tax rate payers the rate of tax on dividend income for dividends is either 32.5% or 42.5% for individuals with income Citibank N. A. of 150,000 or more, with relief available for the tax credit PO Box 43077 referred to above.
The gross amount of the cash dividend will Providence be regarded as the top slice of the WPP share owners income RI 02940-3077 and will be subject to UK income tax as set out above.
Dividends paid by WPP plc will generally be subject to Irish Telephone enquiries: within the US 1 877 248 4237 dividend withholding tax DWT at the standard rate of income Telephone enquiries: outside the US 1 781 575 4555 tax currently 20% unless the share owner is within one of the E-mail enquiries: citibank@shareholders-online.
com categories of exempt share holders as provided in Irish law or by virtue of a relevant tax treaty.
UK resident WPP share owners may be able to apply for an exemption from withholding taxes WPP registered office under Irish domestic law or the UK-Ireland double tax treaty.
DWT is not payable where an exemption applies provided that 22 Grenville Street WPP plc has received all necessary documentation required by St Helier the relevant legislation from a WPP share owner prior to the Jersey JE4 8PX payment of the dividend.
Share owners are advised to consult their professional advisors on this point.
Where a non-Irish The Companys registered number is 101749. resident share owner is entitled to exemption from DWT but DWT has to be deducted from the dividend by WPP, a claim may be made for a refund of the DWT to the Irish tax authorities.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs will generally give credit such credit being limited to the UK-Ireland double tax treaty rate for any Irish DWT withheld from the payment of a dividend if any and not recoverable from the Irish tax authorities against the UK income tax payable in respect of the gross amount of the dividend.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 187 About share ownership  Capital gains tax Capital gains The market value of an ordinary share at 31 March 1982 As liability to capital gains tax on a disposal of WPP shares was 39p.
Since that date rights issues have occurred in will depend on individual circumstances, share owners are September 1986, August 1987 and April 1993.
For capital advised to consult their professional advisors.
gains tax purposes the acquisition cost of ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of such rights issues.
Since any Scrip dividend adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, share owners are advised to consult their professional advisors.
The Company operates a scrip dividend scheme which enables share owners to receive new fully paid ordinary Republic of Ireland taxation shares in the Company instead of cash dividends.
Details of the scrip dividend scheme, including the taxation of the scrip Income tax on cash dividends dividend and details of the election date for the proposed An Irish resident or ordinarily resident individual WPP share scrip dividend alternative in respect of the second interim owner who is an individual who does not make, or is not dividend for 2011 can be found on our website, wpp.
deemed to have made, an election to receive dividends via the Dividend Access Plan will be subject to Irish income tax on the gross dividend at their marginal rate of tax plus the health levy and, in certain circumstances, PRSI pay related social insurance.
The gross dividend is the dividend received plus DWT withheld.
Irish resident individual WPP share owners are generally entitled to credit for the DWT deducted against their income tax liability and to have refunded to them any amount by which DWT exceeds such income tax liability.
If a WPP share owner makes, or is deemed to have made, an election in accordance with the terms of the Dividend Access Plan in respect of dividends to be paid by WPP, such WPP share owner will receive dividends direct from WPP DAS Limited.
No DWT will be levied on dividends paid by WPP DAS Limited.
An Irish resident or ordinarily resident individual WPP share owner who receives dividends from WPP DAS Limited via the Dividend Access Plan will be taxed upon the cash dividend received at their marginal rate of tax plus the health levy and, in certain circumstances, PRSI.
Irish resident taxpayers will not be entitled to claim credit for, or repayment of, the one-ninth UK tax credit attaching to such dividends for UK tax purposes.
