How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Issue Potential impact How it is managed Employmentpractices, including   , .
WPPschieftalent businessethics, employeedevelopment,  remuneration, communicationand  healthandsafety.
Sarbanes-Oxley section 404 believe that the Company and the Group have adequate resources for the foreseeable future.
Therefore the Company The provisions of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require and the Group continue to adopt the going concern basis the Companys management to report on the effectiveness of in preparing the financial statements.
internal control over financial reporting in its Annual Report on Further details of the Groups financial position Form 20-F which is filed with the US Securities and Exchange and borrowing facilities are described in note 10 of Commission.
The 2010 assessment and related report from the the financial statements.
external auditors confirmed that the Companys internal control over financial reporting was effective and included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended Responsibilities in respect of the preparation 31 December 2010.
The 2011 assessment and related report offinancial statements will be included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F due to be published in April 2012.
The directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors have elected to prepare Going concern financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted The directors are required to consider whether it is appropriate by the EU IFRSs and have also elected to prepare financial to prepare the financial statements on the basis that the statements for the Company in accordance with UK Company and the Group are going concerns.
As part of its accounting standards.
Company law requires the directors normal business practice, the Group prepares annual and to prepare such financial statements in accordance with longer-term plans and in reviewing this information and in the Companies Jersey Law 1991. particular the 2012 three-year plan and budget the directors 114 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011
