Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Financial Statements 97 Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included within current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date in which case they are included as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables consist of trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents, which are shown separately within the balance sheet.
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less provision for impairment, which, due to their short term nature, approximates to their fair value.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable in respect of disposals, which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any provision for impairment.
This valuation approximates to their fair value.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Any impairment is charged to the income statement.
Impairment testing for trade receivables is described below in the accounting policy paragraph relating to trade receivables.
Inventories Inventories are stated at cost less impairment.
Cost is calculated on a first-in, first-out basis.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are initially accounted for and measured at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction of the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 20.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast cash flow that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast cash flow is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast cash flow is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction
