94 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Pre-contract costs The Group accounts for all pre-contract costs in accordance with IAS 11, Construction contracts.
Costs incurred before it becomes probable that a contract will be obtained are charged to expenses.
Directly attributable costs incurred after that point are recognised in the balance sheet and charged to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any Special Purpose Company SPC charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Bid recovery fees are deferred and credited to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any SPC credits the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Where the Groups interest in any SPC reduces, the deferred bid recovery fees are credited to the income statement in proportion to the reduction of the Groups interest.
Exceptional items Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, the Group reflects such items as exceptional items and these are shown separately in the income statement.
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax.
Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes which require payments to be made into separately administered funds.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
For defined benefit schemes, regular valuations are prepared by independent professionally qualified actuaries to determine the level of contributions required to fund the benefits set out in the scheme rules.
The Group accounts for pensions in accordance with IAS 19, Employee benefits.
The cost of the defined contribution schemes is charged to operating profit as incurred.
The cost of the defined benefit schemes is charged as follows: the current service cost incurred during the period to provide retirement benefits to employees is charged to operating profit gains or losses arising from settlements or curtailments not covered by actuarial assumptions are included in operating profit a charge representing the expected increase in scheme liabilities is included in net finance costs.
This is based on the present value of scheme liabilities at the beginning of the period a credit representing the expected return on scheme assets is included within net finance costs.
This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the period allowing for expected cash flows during the period.
For defined benefit schemes, all actuarial gains and losses asset experience, liability experience and changes in assumptions are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The difference between the market value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities is recognised as a retirement benefit asset or liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
To the extent that it is recoverable, any related deferred tax asset or liability is included in the relevant category of receivable payable.
The Group has elected to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full as they arise through retained loss earnings.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011
