100 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Financial risk management Risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
These policies are further described within the Treasury policies and objectives section of the Business Review.
Where individual sensitivities are disclosed below, all other variables are held constant.
a Market risk Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments.
The following foreign exchange risk and interest rate analyses, required by IFRS 7, are intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being primarily UK interest rates and the US dollar to sterling and euro to sterling exchange rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analyses: changes in the carrying value of financial instruments designated as net investment hedges from movements in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate are recorded directly in equity changes in the carrying value of financial instruments not in hedging relationships only affect the Consolidated Income Statement all other changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are fully effective with no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement.
i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates in a number of international territories.
Each business undertakes a large proportion of its commercial transactions within its local market and in its local functional currency.
Foreign exchange risk arises from the small proportion of commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the local functional currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency and on the Groups net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy is for each business to undertake commercial transactions in its own functional currency whenever possible.
When this is not possible, the Group manages its foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions using appropriate derivative contracts arranged via Group Treasury.
Cash flows are reviewed on a monthly basis throughout the duration of projects and the future cover amended as appropriate.
Trade receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency arise from commercial transactions and are therefore largely hedged as part of the process described above.
Remaining financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency include bank accounts, loans and intercompany funding balances.
These are unhedged, with the exception of balances that are themselves designated as hedging instruments used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
The Groups primary exposure to foreign exchange rate risk on unhedged financial instruments arises mainly in respect of movements between the US dollar including dollar-pegged currencies and sterling and between the euro and sterling.
At 31 March 2011, if sterling had strengthened weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the US dollar, then profit after tax would be higher lower by approximately 7.9m 2010: 0.1m higher lower and equity would be 7.9m higher lower 2010: 0.1m higher lower.
If sterling had strengthened weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the euro, then profit after tax would be lower higher by approximately 0.1m 2010: 0.5m lower higher and equity would be 0.1m lower higher 2010: 0.5m lower higher.
The sensitivity of profit after tax to foreign exchange rates only arises where the financial instruments are not in the functional currency of the entity that holds them.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
A proportion of the currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations has been managed by taking out foreign currency loans in the relevant currency following the Group acquiring a substantial business in North America during the year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Financial Statements 101 ii Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest rate risk arises from bank loans and loan notes, which are interest-bearing, offset in part by cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The majority of items included in the above are at floating rates of interest or fixed deposits for periods of less than six months: changes in the interest rate result in changes in interest-related cash flows.
No interest hedging is currently undertaken by the Group or its subsidiaries.
If interest rates for the year to 31 March 2011 had been a reasonably possible 10 basis points higher lower, then profit after tax for the year would have been approximately 0.2m 2010: 0.2m higher lower.
iii Price risk The Group does not have any equity securities in its balance sheet and is not materially exposed to commodity price risk.
Certain longer term project and framework contracts include indexation clauses that are applied to unit rates to offset the effect of inflation on input costs over the duration of the agreement.
The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that inflation differs from the index used and forecast project outcomes that form the basis of revenue recognition include an estimate of this risk where it is present.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group will suffer financial loss as a result of counterparties defaulting on their contractual obligations.
The risk arises as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss, cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, with the maximum exposure to the risk equivalent to 100% of the carrying value disclosed in the Groups balance sheet, at 31 March.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
The majority of the Groups cash deposits are placed with its relationship banks, which carry at least A-1 P1 credit rating.
For deposits and money market investments placed with banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of A are accepted.
Investments carry a minimum credit rating of A-1 P1.
Cash and investments are not concentrated with any one counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, concentration of credit risk is very limited due to the Groups broad customer base.
An assessment of credit quality of the customer is made where appropriate using a combination of external rating agencies, past experience and other factors.
In circumstances where credit information is unavailable or poor, the risk is mitigated by the use of advance payments and, by exception, through credit risk insurance.
Exposure and payment performance are monitored closely both at individual project and client level, with a series of escalating debt recovery actions taken where necessary.
In view of current economic circumstances, additional management attention has been focused on the recovery of debtors, in particular within the Middle East.
c Liquidity risk The Group funds its activities through cash generated from its operations and, where necessary, bank borrowings and finance leases.
The Groups banking facilities include cash facilities and bank guarantees.
Cash flow forecasts are prepared covering various periods from short to long term to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet the Groups commitments as they fall due.
The table below analyses the maturity profile of the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities: On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 5 Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years years Discount value 2011 m m m m m m Hire purchase and finance leases 2.3 1.7 3.0 0.2 0.5 6.7 Bank loans 46.3 46.3 Trade payables 96.9 96.9 On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 5 Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years years Discount value 2010 m m m m m m Hire purchase and finance leases 4.2 2.3 4.1 0.8 0.7 10.7 Loan notes 0.8 0.1 0.7 Trade payables 50.6 50.6 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction 102 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued d Concentrations of financial instruments The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, excluding derivative financial instruments, were denominated in the following currencies: 2011 2010 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Sterling 212.9 98.2 315.0 43.7 US dollar 95.5 33.8 43.0 2.3 UAE dirham 42.5 4.0 56.8 3.7 Euro 20.3 1.7 25.6 3.1 China RMB 19.9 0.7 18.1 0.9 Qatari rial 19.0 1.8 17.8 0.9 HK dollar 11.2 1.0 18.8 0.3 Denmark krone 10.4 3.3 12.7 4.1 Other 36.0 5.4 39.2 3.0 Total 467.7 149.9 547.0 62.0 The carrying value of the financial assets of the Company of 41.3m are denominated in US dollars.
The carrying value of the financial liabilities of the Company are denominated in sterling 5.0m and US dollars 41.3m.
In the prior year all the financial assets and liabilities of the Company were denominated in sterling.
Financial assets consist of acquired loan notes: trade receivables net : intercompany receivables nil in consolidated accounts : amounts due from joint ventures: financial assets at fair values through profit or loss: and cash and cash equivalents.
Financial liabilities consist of trade payables: intercompany payables nil in consolidated accounts : amounts due to joint ventures: and borrowings.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that it is able to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to minimise its cost of capital by maintaining an optimal capital structure.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to shareholders, issues of new shares and buyback of existing shares, and through its loan facility.
For capital management purposes, the Group monitors the ratio of its net debt plus defined benefit pension deficit net of deferred tax to EBITDA.
This policy is unchanged from the prior year.
Total capital is calculated as equity, as shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, plus net debt.
Group 2011 2010 m m Total borrowings note 26 53.0 11.4 Less: cash and cash equivalents note 25 121.5 260.3 Net debt 68.5 248.9 Defined benefit pensions deficit note 29 337.8 440.0 Net deferred tax note 19 93.1 149.4 Net debt plus defined benefit pension deficit net of deferred tax 176.2 41.7 Profit before interest and tax 105.1 111.2 Add: depreciation 15.9 15.3 Add: amortisation 8.3 7.5 EBITDA 129.3 134.0 Ratios of net debt plus defined benefit pension deficit net of deferred tax to EBITDA 1.4 0.3 The Groups banking facilities include a number of financial and non-financial covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored and as at 31 March 2011, and since, none of the covenants had been breached.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011
