Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Financial Statements 99 Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Application of new IFRSs and interpretations a The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group: IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, and consequential amendments to IAS 28, Investments in associates and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures effective 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some significant changes compared with IFRS 3.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently remeasured through the statement of comprehensive income.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the noncontrolling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
The revised standard has been applied to all of the Groups acquisitions during year see note 15.
IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements effective 1 July 2009.
The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
IAS 27 revised has had no impact on the current period as the Group has no non-controlling interests.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
The amendment clarifies that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a liability to be classified as non-current provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
As the change in accounting policy only impacts presentational aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies that the largest cash-generating unit or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, Operating segments that is, before the aggregation of segments with similar economic characteristics.
b The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective in the current financial year but have not had a material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group: Amendment to IAS 38, Intangible assets effective 1 January 2010 Amendment to IFRS 2, regarding Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions effective from 1 January 2010 Amendment to IFRS 5, regarding non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Amendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation effective 1 February 2010 IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners effective 1 July 2009 IFRIC 18, Transfer of assets from customers effective 1 July 2009 c T he following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective and have not been early-adopted by the Group: Amendment to IAS 24, Related party disclosures effective 1 January 2011 IFRS 9, Financial instruments: classification and measurement effective 1 January 2013 IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments effective 1 July 2010 Amendments to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement effective 1 January 2011 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction
