Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Financial Statements 95 Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments, the cost of share-based payments awarded after 7 November 2002 is charged to the income statement over the performance and vesting periods of the instruments.
The cost is based on the fair value of the awards made at the date of grant adjusted for the number of awards expected to vest.
In accordance with the transitional provisions within IFRS 2, no charge is made in respect of instruments awarded before 7 November 2002.
The credits associated with the amounts charged to the income statement are included in retained earnings loss until the awards are exercised.
Where awards are settled by the new issue of shares any proceeds received in respect of share options are credited to share capital and share premium.
Where awards are settled in shares held by the EBTs any proceeds are credited to retained earnings loss.
Share awards are granted by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries.
The Company charges to cost of investment in subsidiaries an amount equivalent to the equity-settled element of the annual IFRS 2 charge, with an equivalent credit to reserves in accordance with IFRIC 11, Group and treasury share transactions.
Income tax Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the income statement for the period except where the taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Income tax arising on transactions or events recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity is charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity respectively.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment.
Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
Amortisation ceased on 1 April 2004 and the carrying value of existing goodwill was frozen at that date and subject to annual impairment review.
On acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arises when the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of the identifiable net assets.
In accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 April 1997 was written off to retained earnings loss.
Profit or loss on disposal of the underlying businesses to which this goodwill related will not include goodwill previously recorded as a deduction from equity.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose, identified according to operating segment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction
