Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Investor Information 143 For more investor information Investor Information visit: www.
com investors Investor relations website Unsolicited mail WS Atkins plc Many commonly asked shareholders The Company is obliged by law to make Registered in England.
questions are addressed in the investor its share register available to third parties Company no.
1885586 relations section of our website who may then use it for a mailing list.
com investors If you are a UK shareholder and you Company secretary wish to limit receipt of unsolicited and registered office E-communications mail you may do so by registering with Richard Webster Shareholders can choose to receive all the Mailing Preference Service MPS.
WS Atkins plc Company communications electronically.
Registration can be made online at Woodcote Grove This environmentally friendly way of www.
uk or via Ashley Road receiving information has a number of telephone on 0845 703 4599.
Epsom advantages including speedier delivery of Surrey KT18 5BW documents and the ability to access reports Giving your shares to charity England and results on the internet wherever you If you only have a small number of shares are.
To register please visit our share portal whose value makes it uneconomic to sell Financial calendar at www.
com them, you may wish to consider donating them to charity though ShareGift, an Ex-dividend date 24 August 2011 International payment service independent share donation scheme.
Record date 26 August 2011 for dividends The relevant share transfer form can be Annual General Meeting 8 September 2011 Capita Registrars offers shareholders obtained from the registrar.
ShareGift Final dividend a service to convert sterling dividends is administered by The Orr Mackintosh payment date 30 September 2011 into certain local currencies.
This service Foundation, registered charity number provides faster access to funds and will 1052686.
Further information may be Shareholder services generally cost less than the fees charged obtained on 44 0 20 7930 3737 or Registrar by your local bank.
For further information, from www.
org Enquiries and notifications concerning please contact the registrar address dividends, share certificates, transfers and above.
Tel: 44 0 20 8639 3405 from Identity theft address changes should be sent to the overseas or 0871 664 0385 calls cost Identity theft is on the increase.
Criminals registrar, whose address is: 10p per minute plus network extras, lines may steal your personal information, are open 0900 to 1730 Monday to Friday putting your Atkins shareholding at risk.
Capita Registrars or email: IPS@capitaregistrars.
com The Registry or visit the registrars website: Tips for protecting your Atkins shares: 34 Beckenham Road www.
com international Beckenham ensure all your certificates are kept Kent Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP in a safe place or hold your shares BR3 4TU The Company offers a dividend electronically in CREST via a nominee reinvestment plan to shareholders as keep all correspondence from the Telephone: 0871 664 0300 UK callers, a cost-efficient way of increasing their registrar that shows your shareholder calls cost 10p per minute including VAT shareholding in the Company.
Should you reference number in a safe place, plus any additional network charges, lines wish to participate in the DRIP please or destroy your correspondence by are open 0830 to 1730 Monday to Friday contact the registrar on the telephone shredding it or 44 0 20 8639 3399 non-UK callers.
number given above to request a mandate if you change address inform the form and an explanatory booklet.
Your registrar in writing or via our share Other shareholder enquiries should be completed mandate form must be portal www.
com addressed to Atkins company secretary received by the registrar no later than know when dividends are paid and at the registered office.
31 August 2011 if you wish your final consider having your dividend paid dividend for the year to be reinvested directly into your bank account.
This to buy additional shares.
will reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
If you Amalgamation of accounts change your bank account, inform the Shareholders who receive duplicate sets registrar of the details of your new of Company mailings owing to multiple account.
You can do this by post accounts in their name should write or online using our share portal to the registrar to have their accounts www.
to any letters the registrar sends you about this WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction 144 Investor Information Investor Information continued if you receive a letter from the registrar the FSA also maintains on its website regarding a change of address or a a list of unauthorised overseas firms who dividend instruction but have not recently are targeting, or have targeted, UK moved or requested a change to how investors and any approach from such you receive your dividends please contact organisations should be reported to the them immediately as you may have FSA so that this list can be kept up to been a victim of identity theft date and any other appropriate action if you are buying or selling shares only can be considered.
The FSA can be deal with brokers registered in your contacted by completing an online country of residence or the UK.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Warning to shareholders inform our registrar.
In recent years many companies have become aware that their shareholders If you deal with an unauthorised firm you have received unsolicited telephone calls will not be eligible to receive payment or correspondence concerning investment under the Financial Services Compensation matters.
These are typically from Scheme.
overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what Details of any share dealing facilities that often turn out to be worthless or high-risk the Company endorses will be included shares in US or UK investments.
These in Company mailings or on our website.
operations are commonly know as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be More detailed information on this or very persistent and extremely persuasive similar activity can be found on the and it has been reported that the average Money Advice Service website amount lost by investors is around www.
uk 20,000, with the largest individual loss being 1.2 million.
It is not just the novice investor who has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
The following advice is provided: only ever deal with companies authorised by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
You can check the register of authorised firms at www.
uk register make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation who contacted you.
Call the organisation back using the telephone number listed for them on the FSA register to verify their identity callers may be persistent, so hang up the phone if they continue to contact you under normal circumstances authorised firms cannot make cold calls.
If you receive an uninvited call or email from an organisation of which you are not a customer, treat it with extreme caution and report the incident to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or by visiting www.
uk WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive shareholder communications online at www.
com investors To help you find the information youre looking for, the key features of our investor relations website are highlighted below.
Reports Corporate responsibility Our reports can be accessed Find out more about our Good results in and or downloaded from here.
Corporate Responsibility strategy and performance by visiting this Results and presentations section of our website.
Links to results presentations, a transformational videos, press releases and Share price webcasts.
Charts showing share price activity.
Shareholders queries year, positioning the We provide a number of services to Latest financial news help our shareholders manage their Access our latest financial press holdings, keep up to date with releases here.
our progress and communicate Alerts with us.
Receive automated announcements and news by Register for ecomms signing up to our alerting service.
You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive electronic versions of shareholder communications ecomms.
We will donate 1 to RedR Register for Engineers for Disaster Relief for each shareholder who chooses this method of communication.
Investor information can also be viewed on your mobile phone at www.
mobi Financial news Share price and chart Financial calendar Investor relations team This Annual Report is printed on Revive Pure White Uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste and manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001.
It is TCF Totally Chlorine Free, totally recyclable and has Investor information can also be You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by biodegradable NAPM recycled certification.
TT-COC-002228 viewed on your mobile phone at opting to receive shareholder communications online at The Atkins logo, Carbon Critical Design and the strapline Plan Design Enable are trademarks of Atkins Limited, a WS Atkins plc company.
com investors WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 info@atkinsglobal.
com Annual Report 2011 Plan Design Enable
