Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Financial Statements 93 Group companies Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Trading results of overseas subsidiaries are translated at average rates of exchange.
Differences resulting from the retranslation of opening net assets and results for the period at closing rates are taken to other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Operating segments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the chief executive and the Group finance director.
Following the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation during the year, the Group amended its operating segments for management purposes from those reflecting its key markets and service offerings to those reflecting predominantly its key geographical markets.
The segments are: UK: North America: Middle East: Asia Pacific and Europe: and Energy.
These segments form the basis for reporting the Groups segment information as it is the main determinant of the Groups risks and returns.
The Group considers the United Kingdom to be its country of domicile.
Inter-segment transfers and transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Revenue Revenue from long term contracts comprises the value of work performed during the period calculated in accordance with the Groups policy for contract accounting set out below.
Revenue from other contract activities represents fee income receivable in respect of services provided during the period.
Under certain services contracts, the Group manages customer expenditure and is obliged to purchase goods and services from third-party contractors and recharge them to the customer at cost.
The amounts charged by contractors and recharged to customers are excluded from revenue and cost of sales where the Group is acting solely as an agent.
Receivables, payables and cash relating to these transactions are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Revenue recognition and contract accounting The value of contract work in progress comprises the costs incurred on contracts plus an appropriate proportion of overheads and attributable profit.
Fees invoiced on account are deducted from the value of work in progress and the balance is separately disclosed in trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts, unless such fees exceed the value of the work in progress on any contract when the excess is separately disclosed in trade and other payables as fees invoiced in advance.
Profit is recognised on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of a contract or project can be reasonably foreseen.
Provision is made in full for estimated losses.
Where the outcome of a contract cannot be reasonably foreseen, profit is taken on completion.
Where contracts span two or more accounting periods, profit is not generally recognised until the contract is 50% complete.
Revenue recognition on outsourcing contracts is determined by reference to the proportion of the annual service delivered to date.
Where the costs of obligations in relation to the non-renewal or termination of a contract are higher in the final period of the contract a proportion of revenue is deferred each period to meet these anticipated costs.
Full provision is made for losses on outsourcing contracts if the forecast costs of fulfilling the contract throughout the contract period exceed the forecast income receivable.
In assessing the amount of the loss to provide on an outsourcing contract, account is taken of the Groups share of the forecast results from any joint ventures which the contract is servicing.
Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time-apportionment basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised using the original effective interest rate.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction
