96 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Acquired customer relationships Acquired customer relationships consist of intangible assets arising on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses, principally future order books, that do not appear within the balance sheet of the acquired entity itself, and which are separable from goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, and IAS 38, Intangible assets.
Customer relationships are recognised at fair value and have a finite useful life.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the customer relationships useful economic lives of between one and twenty years.
Corporate information systems In accordance with IAS 38, Intangible assets, the Groups corporate information systems are treated as an intangible asset.
Costs included are those directly attributable to the design, construction and testing of new systems including major enhancements and internally generated costs from the point of inception to the point of satisfactory completion where the probable future economic benefits arising from the investment can be assessed with reasonable certainty at the time the costs are incurred.
Maintenance and minor modifications are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
The corporate information systems recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life of six years.
Software licences Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of between two and five years.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Cost comprises purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis calculated at annual rates to write off the cost less residual value of each asset over the term of its estimated useful economic life as follows: Freehold buildings 10 to 50 years Short leasehold over the life of the lease Plant, machinery and motor vehicles 3 to 12 years No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold land.
The directors annually review the estimated useful economic lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are reviewed for impairment annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following two categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
They are included within current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date in which case they are included as non-current assets.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets Level 1 is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted market prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms-length basis.
The quoted market price used by the Group is the mid-market price.
The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market Level 2 are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on estimates.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011
