98 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Lease obligations Finance leases Lease arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee are treated as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
A liability is recognised for the present value of the minimum lease payments within current and or non-current liabilities as appropriate.
Rental payments are apportioned between capital and interest expense to achieve a constant rate of interest charge on the outstanding obligation.
Where the Group acts as a lessor in a finance lease, receivables under finance leases represent outstanding amounts due under these agreements less finance charges allocated to future periods.
Finance lease interest is recognised over the primary period of the lease so as to produce a constant rate of return on the net cash investment.
Operating leases Where the Group acts as lessee in an operating lease arrangement, the lease payments are charged as an expense to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are also recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group acts as lessor in an operating lease arrangement, rental income from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives provided are also recognised over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised at original invoice amount.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Onerous contract provisions are recognised for losses on contracts where the forecast costs of fulfilling the contract throughout the contract period exceed the forecast income receivable.
In assessing the amount of the loss to provide on any contract, account is taken of the Groups share of the forecast results from any joint ventures which the contract is servicing.
The provision is calculated based on discounted cash flows to the end of the contract.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming vacant.
The provision is calculated based on projected discounted cash flows to the end of the lease, after making assumptions for void and rent free periods.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011
