Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Financial Statements 139 40.
Joint ventures The following represents the principal joint ventures in which the Group participated during the year: Date of Proportion last audited of shares financial External 2 Name Nature of business interest held statements auditors 1 RMPA Holdings Limited Holding company for companies involved in the design, financing and construction of the MoD garrison facility at Colchester 14.0% 31 Mar 2010 KPMG Audit plc Connect Plus Services Joint venture undertaking operation and unincorporated maintenance work on the M25 32.5% n a n a 1 Engage SNC A French general partnership providing architect engineering services for the ITER programme, a nuclear fusion reactor in France 25.0% 31 Dec 2010 KPMG S. A.
Nuclear Atkins Assystem A French general partnership providing 1 Alliance SNC consultancy and engineering services to the international nuclear new-build market 50.0% n a KPMG S. A.
All joint ventures operate in the United Kingdom unless otherwise stated.
Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
Proportion of shares held is in respect of ordinary share capital.
There are no special rights or constraints on the shares.
There are no restrictions on distributions from any of these joint ventures.
Events after the balance sheet date Pyry Pty Ltd, Pyry Energy Ltd and Pyry Energy AS On 3 June 2011 the Group acquired the oil and gas competence line of Pyry plc.
Further details are given in note 15.
Atkins Pension Plan On 6 June 2011 the Groups principal trading company commenced a consultation programme with employees who are members of the Atkins Pension Plan relating to a proposal to remove the link between individual employees accrued pension and future increases in salary.
The change will affect approximately 1,400 employees and would reduce the funding deficit by approximately 28m.
In addition, to further reduce the size of the funding deficit and future volatility, the Group announced its intention to carry out an enhanced transfer value ETV exercise for deferred members of the plan and a pension increase exchange PIE for pensioners.
The reduction in funding deficit arising from these exercises will depend upon the level of uptake.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction
