Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
com Financial assets the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has 129 Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or party under a pass-through arrangement: or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group determines the the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Where, as a result of a either has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or change in intention or ability, it is no longer appropriate to classify an Biological assets has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of investment as held-to-maturity, the investment is reclassified into the the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value on the trade date, plus, in the case of investments Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from an asset not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards Intangible assets All financial liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value.
Subsequently, of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, it continues to recognise the all financial liabilities with the exception of derivatives are carried at financial asset to the extent of its continuing involvement in the asset.
Financial liabilities The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative A financial liability is fide-recognised when the obligation under the liability is when the Group becomes a party to the contract.
Embedded derivatives are discharged or cancelled or expires.
separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair value through Gains and losses on fide-recognition are recognised within finance income and profit and loss and when the economic characteristics and risks are not finance costs respectively.
closely related to the host contract.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are Financial assets classified as held-for-trading are included in the category substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fidefinancial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income the near term.
Derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they statement.
are designated as and are effective hedging instruments.
Gains or losses on these items are recognised in income.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset is Loans and receivables impaired.
Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not Financial assets carried at amortised cost qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at receivables and held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised cost has amortised cost using the effective interest method.
been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at their original rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is invoiced value, adjusted, where appropriate, for provisional pricing or their reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
recoverable amount if this differs from the invoiced amount.
Where the time Objective evidence of impairment of loans and receivables exists if the value of money is material, receivables are discounted and are carried at their counter-party is experiencing significant financial difficulty, there is a breach present value.
A provision is made where the estimated recoverable amount of contract, concessions are granted to the counter-party that would not is lower than the carrying amount.
normally be granted, or it is probable that the counter-party will enter into Available-for-sale financial assets bankruptcy or a financial reorganisation.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified in any of the other the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the three stated categories.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Assets carried at cost Listed share investments are carried at fair value based on stock exchange If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity quoted prices at the balance sheet date.
Unlisted shares are carried at fair instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be value where it can be reliably obtained, otherwise they are stated at cost less reliably measured, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference any impairment.
between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated Fair values future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar Impairment of assets The fair value of quoted financial assets is determined by reference to bid financial asset.
prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no Available-for-sale financial assets active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount comprising the include recent arms-length market transactions: reference to current market difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in flow analysis: and pricing models.
profit or loss, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals in Derivative financial instruments are valued using applicable valuation respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not techniques such as those outlined above.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through profit or loss, if the increase in fair value of the instrument D fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities can objectively be related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was Financial assets recognised in profit or loss.
A financial asset is fide-recognised when: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired:
