com Notes to the financial statements continued 128 6.
Principal accounting policies continued Where a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, has The mines strip ratio represents the ratio of the estimated total volume of goodwill allocated to it, or includes intangible assets that are either not waste, to the estimated total quantity of economically recoverable ore, over available for use or that have an indefinite useful life and which can only be the life of the mine.
These costs are deferred where the actual stripping ratios tested as part of a cash-generating unit, an impairment test is performed at are higher than the average life of mine strip ratio.
The costs charged to the least annually or whenever there is an indication that the carrying amounts of income statement are based on application of the mines strip ratio to the such assets may be impaired.
quantity of ore mined in the period.
Where the ore is expected to be evenly If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an distributed, waste removal is expensed as incurred.
impairment loss is recorded in the income statement to reflect the asset at Biological assets the lower amount.
In assessing the value-in-use, the relevant future cash flows Biological assets, being cattle, are carried at their fair value less estimated expected to arise from the continuing use of such assets and from their selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are disposal are discounted to their present value using a market-determined included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and asset-specific risks for which the cash flow estimates have Intangible assets not been adjusted.
Fair value less costs to sell is determined as the amount Purchased intangible assets are recorded at the cost of acquisition including that would be obtained from the sale of the asset in an arms-length expenses incidental to the acquisition, less accumulated amortisation and any transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
For mining assets impairment in value.
this would generally be determined based on the present value of the Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are estimated future cash flows arising from the continued use and eventual capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from disposal of the asset.
In assessing these cash flows and discounting them to contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on present value, assumptions used are those that an independent market initial recognition.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
An impairment loss is reversed in the income statement if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the prior Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, except impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount is increased to the goodwill and those intangible assets that the Directors regard as having recoverable amount, but not beyond the carrying amount, net of Impairment of financial assets indefinite useful lives, that are not amortised but are reviewed for impairment depreciation or amortisation that would have arisen if the prior at least annually, and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the impairment loss had not been recognised.
After such a reversal the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets are regarded as depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets having an indefinite life when, based on an analysis of all the relevant factors, revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to over its remaining useful life.
Goodwill impairments are not reversed.
Such analyses are performed annually.
Estimated useful lives are determined as the period over which the Group expects to Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations use the asset or the number of production or similar units expected to be Non-current assets held-for-sale obtained from the asset by the Group and for which the Group retains control Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held-for-sale if their of access to those benefits.
carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale For intangible assets with a finite useful life, the amortisation method and is highly probable and the assets or disposal groups are available for period are reviewed annually and impairment testing is undertaken when immediate sale in their present condition.
The Group must be committed to circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed Where an intangible asset is disposed of, it is derecognised and the sale within one year of the date of classification.
difference between its carrying value and the net sales proceeds is reported Non-current assets or disposal groups held-for-sale are carried at the lower as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement in the financial year the of the carrying amount prior to being classified as held-for-sale and the fair disposal occurs.
A non-current asset is not depreciated while classified Coal export rights as held-for-sale.
Coal export rights are carried at cost and amortised using a unit-ofA non-current asset held-for-sale is presented separately in the balance sheet.
production method based on the reserves that exist in the location that has The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held-for-sale are access to such rights.
presented separately as one line in the assets and liabilities sections on the Software and technology patents face of the balance sheet.
Software and technology patents are carried at cost and amortised over a Discontinued operations period of three years and 20 years respectively.
A discontinued operation is a component of an entity, whose operations and Hydroelectricity rights cash flows are clearly distinguished both operationally and for financial Hydroelectricity rights acquired will be amortised over the expected life of reporting purposes from the rest of the entity, that has been disposed of or the operation following the completion of construction.
To be classified as a discontinued operation one of the following criteria must be met: Long-term feed contract A long-term feed contract is amortised over the remaining contract term.
the operation must represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or Impairment of assets The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed for impairment the operation must be part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amounts separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, a review is the operation must be a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to undertaken to determine whether the carrying amounts are in excess of their resale.
An assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Such reviews are Where the operation is discontinued at the balance sheet date, the results are fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do not generate presented in one line on the face of the income statement, and prior period cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is results are represented as discontinued.
undertaken at the cash-generating unit level.
