com Notes to the financial statements 124 1.
Changes in accounting policies, new standards and 6.
Principal accounting policies The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance interpretations not applied Basis of consolidation with a Directors resolution on 15 March 2012.
The ultimate parent entity of Changes in accounting policies Investments in associates the Group, Xstrata plc, is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated England and Wales and domiciled in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of traded on the London and Swiss stock exchanges.
the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010, except for the adoption of the following new standards and The principal activities of the Group are described in note 9. interpretations: 2.
Statement of compliance IAS 24 Related Party Transactions Amendment The IASB issued an The consolidated financial statements of Xstrata plc and its subsidiaries the amendment to IAS 24 that clarifies the definitions of a related party.
The Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting new definitions emphasise a symmetrical view of related party relationships Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and clarifies the circumstances in which persons and key management IASB and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting personnel affect related party relationships of an entity.
In addition, the Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as adopted by the European Union, amendment introduces an exemption from the general related party effective for the Groups reporting for the year ended 31 December 2011. disclosure requirements for transactions with government and entities that are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by the same 3.
Basis of preparation government as the reporting entity.
The adoption of the amendment did The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
the parents functional and presentation currency, and all values are rounded IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement to the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
Amendment The amendment removes an unintended consequence The accounting policies in note 6 have been applied in preparing the when an entity is subject to minimum funding requirements and makes an consolidated financial statements.
early payment of contributions to cover such requirements.
The Interests in joint ventures amendment permits a prepayment of future service cost by the entity to be 4.
Significant accounting estimates recognised as a pension asset.
The Group does not make early payments The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make of contributions to cover its minimum funding requirements: therefore the judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of amendment of the interpretation has no effect on the financial position or revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent performance of the Group.
liabilities, at the date of the financial statements.
Actual outcomes could differ Improvements to IFRSs In May 2010 the IASB issued its third omnibus of from these estimates.
amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing The below are the most critical judgements, estimates and assumptions: inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The adoption of the amendments resulted in Estimated recoverable reserves and resources changes to accounting policies, but no impact on the financial position or Estimated recoverable reserves and resources are used to determine the performance of the Group.
depreciation of mine production assets, in accounting for deferred stripping costs and in performing impairment testing.
Estimates are prepared by The following interpretation and amendments to interpretations did not have appropriately qualified persons, but will be impacted by forecast commodity any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of prices, exchange rates, production costs and recoveries amongst other the Group: factors.
Changes in assumptions will impact the carrying value of assets and IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments depreciation and impairment charges recorded in the income statement.
New standards and interpretations not applied Business combinations Environmental rehabilitation costs The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations The provisions for rehabilitation costs are based on estimated future costs with effective dates that are subsequent to 1 January 2012.
Consequently, using information available at the balance sheet date.
To the extent the these pronouncements will impact the Groups financial statements in future actual costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded and the periods.
income statement may be impacted refer to note 31.
Effective date Impairment testing Note 15 outlines the significant judgements and assumptions made in IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Enhanced performing impairment testing of non-current assets.
Changes in these 1 January 2012 Derecognition Disclosure Requirements assumptions may alter the results of impairment testing, impairment charges IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and recorded in the income statement and the resulting carrying values of assets.
1 January 2013 Measurement Share-based payments, defined benefit pension plans and post- 1 January 2013 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements retirement medical plans Note 34 outlines the significant assumptions made when accounting for IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 share-based payments, defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans.
Changes to these assumptions may alter the resulting IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities 1 January 2013 accounting and ultimately the amount charged to the income statement.
1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production 1 January 2013 Phase of a Surface Mine With the exception of amendments to IFRS 7, the Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations on their effective dates will have a material impact on the Groups presentation of financial statements in the period of initial application.
The Group will quantify the effect of IFRS 9 to 13 and IFRIC 20 as part of initial application of the new standards once the full extent of the impact can be determined.
