com &KLHI [HFXWLYH 2IFHUnV VWUDWHJLF UHYLHZ continued 12 The evolution of our strategy since IPO Phase 1: Mergers and acquisitions Organic growth In the beginning, we grew our business through Operational excellence the opportunistic identication and execution of value-adding bolt-on or transformational acquisitions, while simultaneously improving Mergers and acquisitions the quality of our assets.
Key mergers and acquisitions 2002: IPO and acquisition of Duiker and Enex coal assets to become the worlds largest thermal coal exporter 2003: Our $2.96 billion acquisition of Mount Isa Mines provided exposure to copper and coking coal and established our Australian zinc division 2006: Our $18.8 billion acquisition of Falconbridge added significant scale and diversity, including an entry into nickel, Canadian and South American copper assets and growth options and additional zinc We spent our first few years growing mainly through acquisition, identifying, executing and integrating major transformational deals and smaller additions to Our acquisitions have created a major diversied our commodity businesses.
We continuously look for mining group with the scale and diversity required to ways to improve the quality of our assets and we are both compete with the leading players in the industry now developing a range of organic growth projects and develop new operations.
We continue to look for growth through acquisition.
to increase volumes, reduce costs and deliver value to all our stakeholders.
For more information on 14 our strategic priorities Mangoola mine which resulted in $230 million of unit cost savings and Operating performance productivity improvements at the open cut mines in New South Wales.
Our results must be viewed against an extremely challenging year for the These and other initiatives have moved our coal business back into the global economy.
The tragic earthquake, tsunami and Fukushima disaster in lower half ofthe industry cost curve, offsetting the significant adverse impact Japan in March was followed by unrest in the Middle East and the Eurozone of our leverage to a stronger Australian dollar compared to competitors crisis which severely undermined confidence.
Many OECD economies operating currencies.
Each of our commodity businesses is now amongst the experienced weak growth, while developing economies implemented policies most cost competitive within their respective industries, with first or second to dampen high ination.
In our own industry, we faced the most extraordinary quartile cost positions.
conuence of bad weather in Australia, South Africa and Colombia in the early part of the year, a significant weakening of commodity prices in the second half Safety performance, in terms of total recordable injuries, tells a similar story and high price ination for many vital inputs.
The fact that we achieved record of progressive improvement.
At Group level, we reduced the frequency of profitability in this environment underlines the robust business we have created total recordable injuries by 26%, including particularly strong performances and the benefit of the actions we have taken to optimise our operations and in our coal, nickel and copper businesses.
Since 2002, wehave reduced our take out costs on a sustainable basis.
total recordable injury frequency rate by some 84%.
And we continue tofocus on addressing the root causes of fatal andnear-miss incidents, in particular On that note, every year our businesses progressively reduce costs in real to tackle repeat incidents and understand behavioural factors.
However, terms and 2011 was no exception.
In 2011, sustainable real cost savings of six people lost their lives at our operations in 2011.
All loss of life or serious $391 million mitigated the full impact of a weak US dollar against local injury is a tragedy and is deeply felt in the community of Xstrata.
Irmly currencies and CPI and specic mining sector ination.
Our coal business believe we can and indeed must avoid suchoccurrences to be a true leader accounted for the majority of the savings, primarily due to increased volumes in our industry.
from low cost operations, in particular from the early start-up of the low-cost
