com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 27 Risk Impact Mitigation Operational risks Changes to our operating environments may Our stated objective is to ensure an environment where we adversely affect operating performance, can condently grow shareholder value through developing Our operations are affected by factors, production levels, unit costs and operating and protecting our people, our assets, our environment such as the availability of raw materials, profits.
Consequently, we have a robust and water and power, that are, to a large extent, comprehensive programme in place that identies, outside our control.
We also face myriad understands and manages the risks that affect our business.
These include unusual or This includes a crisis management planning process unexpected geographical features, ground connecting operations, businesses and the corporate conditions or seismic activity: climatic headquarters through clearly dened escalation conditions, such as ooding, drought or a requirements.
Each commodity business also conducts an reduction in permafrost: interruption to annual risk review and updates its risk register accordingly.
power supplies: congestion at commodities transport terminals: industrial action or disputes: environmental hazards: and technical failures, res and explosions and other incidents at a mine, processing plant, terminal or related facility.
Reserves If we are unable to access new reserves or We conduct annual updates of the quantity and quality extend the lives of existing mines, future of estimated proven and probable reserves to reect the Mine reserves decline as commodities are profitability may be impacted.
Declining ore extraction of commodities, additional drilling or other data.
Successful exploration and grades at existing operations will increase We publish reserve and resource estimates on our website.
development activities that extend the lives operating costs.
of existing mines and access to new We maintain a transparent and open relationship with properties containing economically regulators and local, regional and national government recoverable reserves are vital to our future bodies and closely monitor compliance with legislation and success.
Various government permits must with the standards set out in our Sustainable Development be obtained to develop reserves.
