com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Full details about the AGM, including explanatory notes, are contained in 113 Voting rights the Notice of AGM, which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working Subject to the rights and restrictions attached to any class of shares: days beforehand.
The Notice sets out the resolutions to be proposed and i on a show of hands, every member present in person or by proxy has one an explanation of each.
All documents relating to the AGM are available at vote save that neither the holder of the special voting share nor any www.
holder of deferred shares shall be entitled to vote and a proxy appointed by a member on behalf of such members shareholding shall also have one Electronic copies of the annual review and financial vote: statements 2011 and other publications ii on a poll: A copy of the 2011 Annual Report which includes the Annual Review and financial statements, Directors report incorporating a Corporate Governance a every member present in person or by proxy except the holder of the report and directors Remuneration Report, the Notice of the AGM, the 2011 special voting share and any holder of the deferred shares shall have: Sustainability report available in early April and other corporate publications, i one vote for each fully paid share: and reports, press releases and announcements are available at www.
ii for each partly-paid share, such proportion of the votes attached to a fully paid share as would mean that such proportion is the same as the Responsibility statement proportion of the amount paid up on the total issue price of that share: Pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
12, each of the directors whose names are listed on pages 84 to 85 have confirmed to the best b the holder of the special voting share shall, on an Entrenched Rights of their knowledge: Action, have enough votes to defeat the resolution but, on all other decisions, shall have no votes: and i the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, c the holders of the deferred shares shall not be entitled to vote.
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the Restrictions on transfer of shares undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company ii the directors report including those sections incorporated therein by other than: reference includes a fair review of the development and performance of i the right of the Board to refuse to register the transfer of a certicated the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings share that is not a fully paid share provided that the refusal does not prevent included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description dealings in shares of that class in the Company from taking place on an open of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certicated share, unless the instrument of transfer a is lodged, duly stamped Disclosure of information to auditors if applicable with the Company and except where the shares are registered Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of Xstratas auditors, each in the name of a recognised person and no certicate shall have been issued director confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit therefore is accompanied by the relevant share certicate and such other information of which Xstratas auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken all evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may require : b is in respect of necessary steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information one class of share only: and c is in favour of not more than four persons: and to establish that Xstratas auditor is aware of that information.
ii pursuant to our share dealing code whereby directors require, and employees may require, approval to deal in Xstratas shares: Going concern The directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider to be iii certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and appropriate, that the Company has adequate resources to continue in regulations for example, insider trading laws : and operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue iv where a person whose shares represent at least a 0.25% interest in Xstratas to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide The directors have made this assessment after consideration of the Companys the Company with information concerning interests in those shares, except budgeted cash ows and related assumptions, undrawn debt facilities, debt as otherwise provided in the Articles.
maturity review, analysis of debt covenants, and in accordance with Going The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares and for published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009. voting rights.
By order of the Board The Board must decline to register any transfer of the special voting share unless approved in accordance with a voting deed between the Company and the holder of the special voting share.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at Richard Elliston Theater-Casino Zug, Artherstrasse 2-4, Zug, Switzerland on 1 May 2012 at Company Secretary 11 a. m. Central European Summer Time.
A live webcast will be provided 15 March 2012 through www.
A telephone dial-in facility will also be provided on a listen-only basis.
Further details of the dial-in facility and webcast will be available at www.
com at least one week prior to the meeting.
