com Notes to the financial statements continued 132 6.
Principal accounting policies continued Equity-settled awards 7.
Acquisitions The Group contributes to separately administered defined benefit pension For equity-settled awards, the fair value is charged to the income statement Business combinations plans.
and credited to retained earnings, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, after adjusting for the estimated number of awards that are expected For defined benefit funds, plan assets are measured at fair value, while plan to vest taking into account the achievement of non-market-based liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit performance conditions.
The fair value of the equity-settled awards is method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of determined at the date of the grant.
In calculating fair value, no account is return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the plan liabilities.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an the shares of the Company market conditions.
The fair value is determined assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on by external experts using option pricing models.
At each balance sheet date scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of prior to vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which the contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
In measuring its vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the awards defined benefit liability, past service costs are recognised as an expense on a that are ultimately expected to vest is computed after adjusting for nonstraight-line basis over the period until the benefits become vested.
To the market performance conditions.
The movement in cumulative expense is extent that the benefits vest immediately following the introduction of, or recognised in the income statement with a corresponding entry within equity.
changes to, a defined benefit plan, the past service costs are recognised immediately.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for part or all of No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for the benefits that have already accrued or a curtailment reducing future awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which the expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified over the original settlement or curtailment occurs.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for the year is that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or determined using the projected unit method and is recognised in the income is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of statement.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and modification, over the remainder of the new vesting period.
the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities is recognised in the income Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on statement.
the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is Actuarial gains or losses are recognised directly in equity through the recognised immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the statement of recognised income and expenses.
The full pension surplus or award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with deficit is recorded in the balance sheet, with the exception of the impact of any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income any recognition of past service costs.
Surpluses recorded are restricted to the statement.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, sum of any unrecognised past service costs and present value of any amounts and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions new award is treated as if it is a modification of the original award, as in future contributions.
described in the previous paragraph.
The Group also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain Cash-settled awards employees in Canada, the Dominican Republic, South Africa and the United For cash-settled awards, the fair value is recalculated at each balance date States.
These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit until the awards are settled based on the estimated number of awards that pension plans.
are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non-market based performance conditions.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised Ordinary share capital representing the portion of the vesting period that has expired at the balance Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds sheet date multiplied by the fair value of the awards at that date.
After received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that vesting, the full fair value of the unsettled awards at each balance date is are incurred in connection with the share issue.
The nominal par value of the recognised as a liability.
Movements in the liability are recognised in the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any excess is recorded income statement.
The fair value is recalculated using an option pricing in the share premium account, including the costs that were incurred with model refer to note 35. the share issue.
Borrowing costs Share-based compensation plans Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or The Group makes share-based awards, including free shares and options, to production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to certain employees.
get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised and amortised over the useful life of the asset.
Borrowing costs related to the establishment of a loan facility are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility.
Other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the financial period incurred.
Comparatives Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to disclose them on the same basis as the current year.
