com Notes to the financial statements 190 1.
Accounting policies Provisions for liabilities Cash-settled awards Basis of preparation Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation, as a These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources that can UK accounting standards.
The accounting policies are consistent with the prior be reliably estimated will be required to settle the obligation.
Deferred taxation Xstrata plc the Company has adopted the following principal accounting Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have policies: originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
In particular: Investments Equity investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any provision for provision is made for tax on gains arising from the disposal of fixed assets, impairments.
only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is Financial assets made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into profit and loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, or replacement assets and charged to tax only when the replacement assets available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Company determines are sold: Loans from subsidiaries the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value on the trade provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the date, plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, retained earnings of overseas entities only to the extent that, at the balance directly attributable transaction costs.
sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: and Loans and receivables deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which Foreign currency transactions determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based using the effective interest method.
This cost is computed as the amount on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet initially recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative date.
amortisation using the effective interest method of any difference between the initially recognised amount and the maturity amount.
Own shares The cost of purchases of own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Revenue Gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account when the loans Plan ESOP trust are deducted from equity.
Where they are issued to and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Loans and receivables are derecognised when the Any proceeds received on the disposal of the shares or on the transfer of Company no longer has a right to receive cash flows from the asset.
shares to employees are recognised in equity.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables Share-based payments has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference The Company makes share-based awards, including free shares and options in between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated the Company, to certain employees and directors of the Group.
The expense future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred recognised in the financial statements relates only to those share-based discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the awards that are granted by the Company, to its employees and directors.
Comparatives effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of Expenses relating to awards granted to employees and directors of other the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the profit and Group companies are allocated to those companies in accordance with UITF loss account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss Abstract 44. decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring Use of estimates after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment Equity-settled awards loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised For equity-settled awards, the fair value is charged to the profit and loss in the profit and loss account, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset account and credited to retained earnings, on a straight-line basis over the does not exceed its amortised cost that would have been measured if there vesting period, after adjusting for the estimated number of awards that are had been no impairment at the reversal date.
expected to vest taking into account the achievement of non-market-based performance conditions.
The fair value of the equity-settled awards is Impairment determined at the date of the grant by external experts using the models The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or outlined in note 34 of the Group consolidated financial statements.
changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine At each balance sheet date prior to vesting, the cumulative expense whether the carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
Such representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and review is undertaken on cash-generating units.
managements best estimate of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is computed after adjusting for non-market performance conditions.
The If the carrying value of a fixed asset exceeds the recoverable amount, a movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the profit and loss account provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
In assessing the with a corresponding entry within equity.
recoverable amounts of fixed assets, the relevant future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use and disposal of the assets have been discounted to their present value using a market-determined discount rate.
