Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
Principal accounting policies continued Revenue Where parts of an asset have different useful lives, depreciation is calculated include costs associated with a start-up period where the asset is available for 127 on each separate part.
Each asset or parts estimated useful life has due use but incapable of operating at normal levels without a commissioning regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of period.
economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is Mineral reserves and capitalised mine development expenditure are, upon located, and to possible future variations in those assessments.
Estimates of commencement of production, depreciated using a unit of production remaining useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Changes in method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to which estimates are accounted for prospectively.
they relate or are written off if the property is abandoned.
The net carrying The expected useful lives are as follows: amounts of mineral reserves and resources and capitalised mine development expenditure at each mine property are reviewed for impairment Buildings 15 40 years either individually or at the cash-generating unit level when events and Plant and equipment 4 30 years changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be The net carrying amounts of land, buildings and plant and equipment are recoverable.
To the extent that these values exceed their recoverable reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating unit amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying this is determined.
amounts may not be recoverable.
To the extent that these values exceed Capital work in progress their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the capital work in year in which this is determined.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred Foreign currencies Expenditure on major maintenance or repairs includes the cost of the to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
replacement of parts of assets and overhaul costs.
Where an asset or part of The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and an asset is replaced and it is probable that future economic benefits any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its associated with the item will be available to the Group, the expenditure is intended use.
capitalised and the carrying amount of the item replaced derecognised.
Similarly, overhaul costs associated with major maintenance are capitalised Costs associated with a start-up period are capitalised where the asset is and depreciated over their useful lives where it is probable that future available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels without a economic benefits will be available and any remaining carrying amounts of commissioning period.
Interest income the cost of previous overhauls are derecognised.
All other costs are expensed Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
The net carrying amounts of as incurred.
capital work in progress at each mine property are reviewed for impairment Where an item of property, plant and equipment is disposed of, it is either individually or at the cash-generating unit level when events and Exceptional items derecognised and the difference between its carrying value and net sales changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be proceeds is disclosed as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement.
To the extent that these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which Any items of property, plant or equipment that cease to have future this is determined.
economic benefits are derecognised with any gain or loss included in the income statement in the financial year in which the item is derecognised.
Leasing and hire purchase commitments The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease is based Exploration and evaluation expenditure on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or exploration and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and resources and assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A includes costs such as exploratory drilling and sample testing and the costs of reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other than that acquired from the purchase of another mining Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards company, is carried forward as an asset provided that one of the following of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase Property, plant and equipment conditions is met: contracts, are capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value of the leased property or the present value of the minimum lease payments such costs are expected to be recouped in full through successful during the lease term calculated using the interest rate implicit in the lease development and exploration of the area of interest or alternatively, by its agreement.
These amounts are determined at the inception of the lease and sale: or are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease term.
exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have not yet The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase reached a stage that permits a reasonable assessment of the existence or contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and active and significant of the lease or hire purchase obligations are charged to the income operations in relation to the area are continuing, or planned for the future.
statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are recognised as assets at their 31 Average outstanding.
December 12 months cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business 2011 2011 combination.
Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have not 4.3063 4.1282 passed to the Group are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under An impairment review is performed, either individually or at the cashoperating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis 1.0205 1.0331 generating unit level, when there are indicators that the carrying amount of over the lease term.
1.0212 0.9892 the assets may exceed their recoverable amounts.
To the extent that this 519.50 483.83 occurs, the excess is fully provided against, in the financial year in which this Deferred stripping costs is determined.
Exploration and evaluation assets are reassessed on a regular In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and 1,938 1,848 basis and these costs are carried forward provided that at least one of the other waste in order to access the ore body.
During the pre-production 1.2960 1.3926 conditions outlined above is met.
phase, these costs are capitalised as part of the cost of the mine property and depreciated based on the mines strip ratio.
Expenditure is transferred to mine development assets or capital work in 1.5550 1.6041 progress once the work completed to date supports the future development The costs of removal of the waste material during a mines production phase 2.6904 2.7532 of the property and such development receives appropriate approvals.
are deferred where they give rise to future benefits.
The deferral of these 8.0796 7.2642 costs, and subsequent charges to the income statement, are determined with Mineral properties and mine development expenditure 0.9376 0.8866 reference to the mines strip ratio.
The cost of acquiring mineral reserves and mineral resources is capitalised on the balance sheet as incurred.
