Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
Changes in accounting policies, new standards and 6.
Principal accounting policies Joint ventures are accounted for in the manner outlined above, until the date 125 interpretations not applied Basis of consolidation on which the Group ceases to have joint control over the joint venture.
Changes in accounting policies The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Xstrata plc Investments in associates the Company and its subsidiaries the Group.
All inter-entity balances and Entities in which the Group has significant influence and which are neither transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from intra-Group subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are associates, and are accounted for using transactions, have been eliminated in full.
The results of subsidiaries acquired the equity method of accounting.
or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passes.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in the associate is financial and operating policy of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its recognised on the balance sheet on the date of acquisition at the fair value of 2.
Statement of compliance IAS 24 Related Party Transactions Amendment activities.
This occurs when the Group has more than 50% voting power the purchase consideration where this is higher than the fair value of the through ownership or agreements, except where non-controlling rights are identifiable net assets acquired, or, if the purchase consideration is less than such that a non-controlling shareholder is able to prevent the Group from the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired, at the fair value of the exercising control.
In addition, control may exist without having more than identifiable net assets acquired.
In this way, goodwill is included within the 50% voting power through ownership or agreements, or in the circumstances associate balance when the fair value of the investment is less than the of enhanced non-controlling rights, as a consequence of fide facto control.
The carrying amount is adjusted by the Groups share of facto control is control without the legal right to exercise unilateral control, the post-acquisition profit or loss, depreciation, amortisation or impairment and involves decision-making ability that is not shared with others and the arising from fair value adjustments made at date of acquisition and certain 3.
Basis of preparation ability to give directions with respect to the operating and financial policies of inter-entity transactions together with a reduction for any dividends received the entity concerned.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the or receivable from the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting period directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of such Amendment during which Xstrata plc has control.
Subsidiaries use the same reporting changes in equity.
period and same accounting policies as Xstrata plc.
The financial statements of the associates are generally prepared for the Interests in joint ventures same reporting period as the Group, using consistent accounting policies.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies 4.
Significant accounting estimates undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The financial that may exist in the underlying records of the associate.
Where an associate statements of the joint ventures are generally prepared for the same prepares its financial statements using a different reporting period, an reporting period as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
estimate of the Groups share of the associates profit or loss is made based Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies on the most reliable information available.
Adjustments are made in the Improvements to IFRSs that may exist in the underlying records of the joint venture.
consolidated financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates.
Jointly controlled operations A jointly controlled operation involves the use of assets and other resources The Group discontinues its use of the equity method from the date on which Estimated recoverable reserves and resources of the Group and other venturers rather than the establishment of a it ceases to have significant influence, and from that date accounts for the corporation, partnership or other entity.
investment in accordance with IAS 39 with its initial cost being the carrying amount of the associate at that date, provided the investment does not then The Group accounts for the assets it controls and the liabilities it incurs, the qualify as a subsidiary or joint venture.
expenses it incurs and the share of income that it earns from the sale of goods or services by the joint venture.
The Groups income statement reflects the share of associates results after tax and the Groups statement of recognised income and expense includes Jointly controlled assets any amounts recognised by associates outside of the income statement.
A jointly controlled asset involves joint control and ownership by the Group New standards and interpretations not applied and other venturers of assets contributed to or acquired for the purpose of Business combinations Environmental rehabilitation costs the joint venture, without the formation of a corporation, partnership or other On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the acquisition method of accounting is entity.
used, whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets on the basis The Group accounts for its share of the jointly controlled assets, any liabilities of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Those mining rights, mineral reserves it has incurred, its share of any liabilities jointly incurred with other venturers, and resources that are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the income from the sale or use of its share of the joint ventures output, together Impairment testing assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources with its share of the expenses incurred by the joint venture, and any expenses and mineral rights, for which in the Directors opinion values cannot be it incurs in relation to its interest in the joint venture.
reliably determined, are not recognised.
Jointly controlled entities When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the A jointly controlled entity involves the establishment of a corporation, Groups share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as partnership or other legal entity in which the Group has an interest along with Share-based payments, defined benefit pension plans and postpurchased goodwill, which is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment other venturers.
retirement medical plans annually or where there is an indication of impairment.
If the fair value The Group recognises its interest in jointly controlled entities using the attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets exceeds the proportionate method of consolidation, whereby the Groups share of each of cost of acquisition, the difference is immediately recognised in the income the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint venture are combined statement.
with the similar items, line by line, in its consolidated financial statements.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets When the Group contributes or sells assets to a joint venture, any gain or loss in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are presented in equity in from the transaction is recognised based on the substance of the transaction.
the consolidated balance sheet, separately from the parents shareholders When the Group has transferred the risk and rewards of ownership to the equity.
joint venture, the Group only recognises the portion of the gain or loss If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair attributable to the other venturers, unless the loss is reflective of an value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is reimpairment, in which case the loss is recognised in full.
When the Group measured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
purchases assets from the joint venture, it does not recognise its share of the profits of the joint venture from the transaction until it resells the assets to an independent party.
Losses are accounted for in a similar manner unless they represent an impairment loss, in which case they are recognised immediately.
