Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
Financial instruments the Group does not have significant cash flow hedges related to interest rate risk.
As such, movements that would occur in equity as a result of a 183 hypothetical change in interest rates at reporting date have been excluded from this analysis: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement: the Group does not have material exposure to interest rate risk from available-for-sale financial instruments.
As such, these financial instruments have been excluded from this analysis: the balance of interest-bearing financial instruments at reporting date is representative of the balance for the year as a whole and hypothetical interest rate movements are deemed to apply for the entire reporting period: and the impact of interest rate movements on the carrying value of pension obligations has been excluded.
If the market interest rates had been 100 basis points higher lower at 31 December 2011 income would have been US$51million 2010 US$69 million higher lower.
There would be no material effect on equity reserves other than those relating directly to movements in the income statement.
Foreign currency risk Owing to the Groups significant operations in Australia, North America, South America, South Africa and Europe, the balance sheet and results can be affected significantly by movements in exchange rates.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates provides a degree of natural protection.
However, in the short term it can be quite volatile.
The presentation currency of the Group is the US$.
Foreign currency hedges Group subsidiaries located in Australia and Canada have entered into AUD US$ and CAD US$ exchange contracts to hedge a portion of their US$ denominated revenue and third-party loans.
The Group also enters into forward contracts to hedge specific one-off foreign currency transactions.
The timing of hedged cash flows is expected to coincide with the maturities of the hedging instruments to which they relate.
