Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
Accounting policies Provisions for liabilities Cash-settled awards 191 Basis of preparation For cash-settled awards, the fair value is recalculated at each balance date until the awards are settled based on the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest adjusting for market and non-market-based performance conditions.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised representing the Deferred taxation portion of the vesting period that has expired at the balance sheet date multiplied by the fair value of the awards at that date.
After vesting, the full fair value of the unsettled awards at each balance date is recognised as a Investments liability.
Movements in the liability are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The fair value is recalculated using an option pricing model refer to note 34 of the Group consolidated financial statements.
Financial assets Refer to the accounting policies and note 34 of the Group consolidated financial statements for a full explanation of the valuation of and accounting for the share-based awards.
Loans from subsidiaries Loans from subsidiaries are recognised at inception at the fair value of the proceeds received net of issue costs.
Subsequently, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance costs are recognised in the profit and loss account using the effective interest rate Loans and receivables method.
Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency US$ at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are recorded in the profit and loss account.
Foreign currency non-monetary assets and liabilities are not restated at balance sheet date.
Own shares Revenue Interest income is recognised as earned on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised as earned when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Share-based payments Income for other services is recognised when the service has been rendered, the amount of revenue and associated costs can be reliably measured, and it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company.
Comparatives Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to disclose them on the same basis as current period figures.
Use of estimates Equity-settled awards The preparation of these financial statements is in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates.
