com Notes to the financial statements continued 126 6.
Principal accounting policies continued Revenue Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be Revenue associated with the sale of commodities is recognised when all recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or the customer, usually when insurance risk has passed to the customer and the liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or commodity has been delivered to the shipping agent.
At this point the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration associated with ownership nor effective control over the commodities and the is classified as equity, it will not be re-measured.
costs incurred, or to be incurred, in respect of the sale can be reliably Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
In instances where the measured.
Revenue is recognised, at fair value of the consideration contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of IAS 39, it is receivable, to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to measured in accordance with the appropriate IFRS.
the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Sales revenue is recognised at the fair value of consideration received, which in most cases is Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of interests in invoiced amounts, with most sales being priced free on board FOB, free on associates.
Any goodwill arising on such purchases is included within the rail FOR or cost, insurance and freight CIF.
Revenues from the sale of bycarrying amount of the investment in the associates, but not thereafter products are also included in sales revenue.
Revenue excludes treatment and Capital work in progress amortised.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the refining charges unless payment of these amounts can be enforced by the associates identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the Group at the time of the sale.
cost of the investment is included in income in the period of the purchase.
For some commodities the sales price is determined provisionally at the date Foreign currencies of sale, with the final price determined at a mutually agreed date, generally at Financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are a quoted market price at that time.
This contractual feature has the character maintained in their functional currencies and converted to US dollars for of a commodity derivative.
As a result, the invoice price on these sales are consolidation of the Group results.
The functional currency of each entity is marked-to-market at balance sheet date based on the forward metal prices determined after consideration of the primary economic environment of the for the relevant quotational period.
This ensures that revenue is recorded at entity.
the fair value of consideration to be received.
All mark-to-market adjustments Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling are recorded in sales revenue.
at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Interest income foreign currencies are retranslated at year-end exchange rates.
All differences Interest income is recognised as earned on an accruals basis using the that arise are recorded in the income statement except for differences arising effective interest method in the income statement.
on rehabilitation provisions which are capitalised for operating mines.
Nonmonetary assets measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are Exceptional items translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Exceptional items represent significant items of income and expense that, Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a foreign currency, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to they are translated at the exchange rates when the fair value was determined.
them, are presented separately on the face of the income statement to give a Leasing and hire purchase commitments Where the exchange difference relates to an item which has been recorded in better understanding to shareholders of the elements of financial equity, the related exchange difference is also recorded in equity.
performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial performance.
Exceptional items include, Exploration and evaluation expenditure On consolidation of foreign operations into US dollars, income statement but are not limited to, impairment charges and reversals, liability fair value items are translated at weighted average rates of exchange where this is a adjustments, profits and losses on the sale of investments, profits and losses reasonable approximation of the exchange rate at the dates of the from the sale of operations, restructuring and closure costs, inventory writetransactions.
Balance sheet items are translated at closing exchange rates.
downs, foreign currency gains and losses on borrowings, loan issue costs Exchange differences on the re-translation of the investments in foreign written-off on facility refinancing and the related tax impacts of these items.
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at closing rates, together with differences between income statements translated at average and at closing Property, plant and equipment rates, are recorded in a separate component of equity.
Exchange differences On initial acquisition, land and buildings and plant and equipment are valued relating to quasi-equity inter-company loan balances with the foreign at cost, being the purchase price and the directly attributable costs of operations that form part of the net investment in the foreign operation are acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the location and also recognised in this component of equity.
On disposal or partial disposal condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity intended by management.
relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income In subsequent periods, buildings, plant and equipment are stated at cost less statement.
accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value, whilst land is stated The following exchange rates to the US dollar US$ have been applied: at cost less any impairment in value and is not depreciated.
31 Average 31 Average Depreciation is provided so as to write off the costs, less estimated residual December 12 months December 12 months values of buildings and plant and equipment based on prices prevailing at 2011 2011 2010 2010 the balance sheet date, on the following bases: Argentine pesos US$:ARS 4 4.3063 4.1282 3.9759 3.9119 Mine production assets are depreciated using a unit-of-production method Australian dollars AUD:US$ 1 1.0205 1.0331 1.0233 0.9208 based on estimated economically recoverable reserves, which results in a Canadian dollars US$:CAD 1 1.0212 0.9892 0.9983 1.0302 depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of reserves.
Buildings and Deferred stripping costs Chilean pesos US$:CLP 5 519.50 483.83 468.00 510.19 plant and equipment unrelated to production are depreciated using the Colombian pesos US$:COP 1 1,938 1,848 1,920 1,898 straight-line method based on estimated useful lives.
