Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
Financial instruments 179 Associates Principles of risk management The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
These risks arise from exposures that occur in the normal course of business and are managed by the Treasury Committee, which operates as a sub-committee of the Executive Committee.
The responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include the recommendation of policies to manage financial instrument risks.
These recommendations are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors and implemented by the Groups Treasury Department.
The overall objective of the Treasury Committee is to effectively manage credit risk, liquidity risk and other market risks in accordance with the Groups strategy.
Other responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include management of the Groups cash resources and debt funding programmes, approval of counter-parties and relevant transaction limits and the monitoring of all significant treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
The Group uses both conventional financial instruments and derivative financial instruments to manage these risks.
The Groups Treasury Department prepares monthly treasury reports which monitor all significant treasury activities undertaken by Group companies.
The report also benchmarks significant treasury activities.
The Treasury Committee and Executive Committee review these reports to monitor the financial instrument risks of the Group and to ensure compliance with established Group policies and procedures.
The Groups significant financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans and overdrafts, capital market notes, finance leases, hire purchase contracts, cash and short-term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups acquisitions and ongoing operations.
The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
Derivative transactions are entered into solely to mitigate risks and hedge accounting under IAS 39 is only applied when certain criteria have been met.
Market fluctuations in derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are used to offset the fluctuations in the underlying exposure.
The Group does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 6.
Joint venture entities Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets.
Investments in cash, short-term deposits, derivative instruments and similar assets are with approved counter-party banks and other financial institutions.
Counter-parties are assessed prior to, during, and after the conclusion of transactions to ensure exposure to credit risk is limited to an acceptable level.
The Groups major exposure to credit risk is in respect of trade receivables.
Given the geographical industry spread of the Groups ultimate customers and the solvency of major trade debtors, credit risk is believed to be limited.
Past the due date but not impaired Neither impaired nor Between Between Between past the Less than 30 and 91 and 181 and More than due date 30 days 90 days 180 days 365 days 1 year Total US$m Trade debtors: 2011 2 2,765 133 69 63 4 3 3,037 2010 3,809346814 1 4 3,930 The credit quality of the Groups significant customers is monitored on an ongoing basis by the Credit Department.
Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are considered of high credit quality.
There were no material impairments of trade debtors as at 31 December 2011 or 2010.
The solvency of the debtor and their ability to repay the receivables Remuneration of key management personnel of the Group were considered in assessing the impairment of such assets.
No collateral is held in respect of impaired assets or assets that are past due but not impaired.
2011 Details of guarantees material to the Group are outlined in note 33.
23 8 Where concentrations of credit risk exist, management closely monitors the receivable and ensures appropriate controls are in place to ensure recovery.
A portion of the Groups revenues is generated from sales to Glencore, a related party.
These sales are governed by various sales, marketing and distribution 116 agreements as outlined in note 35.
In general, Glencore acts as a sales and marketing agent, on-selling purchases from the Group to a wide variety of 85 purchasers.
As these agreements have been in place for a number of years and the Group has not been exposed to significant unrecoverable amounts, the Group does not believe these arrangements expose it to unacceptable credit risks.
Credit risk is minimal and not concentrated for other financial assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the total carrying value of financial assets on the balance sheet as at the reporting date, being an amount of Directors loans US$7,716 million 2010 US$8,020 million.
The Group does not have netting agreements with any debtors.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at a reasonable price.
The Groups Treasury Department is responsible for management of liquidity risk, including funding, settlements, related processes and policies.
The Group manages its liquidity risk on a consolidated basis utilising various sources of finance to maintain flexibility while ensuring access to cost-effective funds when required.
The operational, tax, capital and regulatory requirements and obligations of the Group are considered in the management of liquidity risk.
In addition, management utilises both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts and other consolidated financial information to manage liquidity risk.
The Groups Treasury Department monitors the Groups long-term credit ratings from major ratings agencies including Standard & Poors and Moodys when assessing the ongoing credit-worthiness of the Group.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had long-term credit ratings of BBB stable outlook from Standard & Poors 2010 BBB positive outlook and Baa2 positive outlook from Moodys 2010 Baa2 stable outlook and A low from DBRS 2010 A low.
The ratings agencies consider a number of qualitative measurements when assessing the credit-worthiness of a company.
These include an assessment of the quality of assets and management, attitudes to risk, industry type and the performance of a company in relation to its peers.
They also examine a number of financial ratios such as leverage, debt to operating cash flow, interest coverage, total liabilities to total assets and return on invested capital.
The Groups Treasury Department continuously monitors the Groups performance relative to these ratios as a guide to the ongoing credit-worthiness of the Group.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 180 36.
Financial instruments continued Market risk analysis The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it.
This ensures flexibility to minimise liquidity risk and ensures the ongoing solvency of the Group.
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2011 in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date are as follows: Available undrawn borrowing facilities and maturity: Interest rate risk 2011 2010 US$m Expiring in: Less than 1 year 243 52 Between 1 and 2 years 4,680 Between 2 and 3 years 2,000 Principal Average Fair amount rate % value Between 4 and 5 years 6,000 2,000 2011 2011 2011 6,243 8,732 The following tables show the Groups contractually agreed undiscounted forecast cash flows from financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives.
Expected cash flows from derivative contracts are not materially different from the maturity profile disclosed below.
Amounts in foreign 5 5 currency are each translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
The variable interest payments arising from the financial instruments were calculated 4 4 using interest rates as at the reporting date.
Financial liabilities that can be repaid at any time are always assigned to the earliest possible time period.
Future forecast transactions or transactions subsequent to year-end are not included.
