Other statutory and regulatory information, including Directors responsibility statement Principal activities Results and dividends The Company is the holding company for the Babcock International The profit attributable to the owners of the parent for the financial Group of companies whose principal activities are described in the year was 101.1 million 2010: 106.0 million.
An interim dividend Business review on pages 24 to 33 of this report.
of 5.20p per 60p ordinary share was declared in the year 2010: 4.80p.
The Directors are recommending that shareholders approve at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a final dividend for the Directors year of 14.20p on each of the ordinary shares of 60p to be paid on Biographies of the current Directors of the Company are to be found 9 August 2011 to those shareholders on the register at the close on pages 46 and 47. of business on 8 July 2011.
Last year, in lieu of a final dividend, The table on page 48 shows the Directors who served in the year a second interim dividend of 12.80p per share was paid for the to 31 March 2011. year to 31 March 2010.
Reappointment of Directors at the 2011 Annual General Meeting Significant shareholdings Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to As at 12 May 2011, the Company had been notified in accordance submit themselves for reappointment by shareholders at the first with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board following major interests in voting rights attached to its ordinary and at least every three years thereafter.
However, in accordance shares which represent interests in 3% or more of its issued ordinary with recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code, share capital.
each of the Directors in office will stand for re-election at this years Number of Annual General Meeting.
Executive Directors are entitled to not less 60p ordinary than 12 months notice of termination of their service agreements.
Name shares % Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, have letters of Standard Life Investment Limited 21,619,857 6.03 appointment which can be terminated at will.
Cantillon Capital Management LLC 18,094,818 5.04 FMR LLC 17,995,103 5.01 Directors interests in contracts BlackRock, Inc. 17,969,006 5.01 At the date of this Report, there is no contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is significant in relation Ignis Investment Services Limited 14,059,461 3.92 to the business of the Group as a whole in which a Director of the Deutsche Bank AG 12,809,023 3.57 Company is materially interested.
Legal & General Group Plc 11,471,276 3.20 Schroders plc 11,400,758 3.17 Annual General Meeting JPMorgan Chase & Co 11,376,214 3.17 This years Annual General Meeting will be held at Grosvenor House, A JW Marriott Hotel, Park Lane, London W1K 7TN on Thursday, 7 July 2011, at 11 am.
The notice of meeting with an explanation of the business to be conducted at it is being sent separately to shareholders or made available to view online at www.
co. uk for those who have elected or who are deemed to have elected simply to receive notices of availability of documents.
57 Other statutory and regulatory information, including Directors responsibility statement continued Employee share schemes and plans: The table below summarises share-based plans in existence at the date of this Report that have outstanding awards.
Outstanding Performanceawards Source Name of Plan Who it covers related?
Summary description vested of shares The Approved Open to all UK employees No Employees can buy Company shares Not Purchased in Employee Share including Executive Directors partnership shares in the market out applicable the market Ownership Plan who meet necessary of pre-tax income.
service criteria The Plan allows for the Company to award free and or matching shares to participants, though the Company has not yet done so.
Shares are bought on behalf of the employee via a tax-approved employee trust which holds them on behalf of the individual participants.
The shares must generally be kept in trust for at least three years to obtain any tax advantages, and for five years to obtain maximum tax advantages.
The 2009 Executive Directors and other Yes Nil price options to acquire shares, subject 3,002,849 Intention is Performance employees as selected by the to achievement of performance targets to purchase None Share Plan Remuneration Committee measured over a three-year period.
in the vested the PSP market, but can be fresh issue The Company Executive Directors and other Yes HM Revenue and Customs approved 424,099 Intention is Share Option employees in the UK as selected performance-linked share awards in the to purchase None Plan the CSOP by the Remuneration Committee form of options to acquire shares in the in the vested Company at their market price at the market, but time of the award.
can be fresh issue The Babcock Executive Directors and other Yes This Plan was used from 2003 to 2008 to 424,458 Intention is 2003 Long-Term employees as selected by the make performance-linked share awards to to purchase 146,862 Incentive Plan Remuneration Committee the Executive Directors and senior in the vested the L-TIP employees in the form of options granted market, but at a nominal or nil price.
can be fresh issue Deferred Bonus Executive Directors and other No A mechanism for implementing the 239,908 Purchased in Plan the DBP senior executives whose annual mandatory deferral of part of annual the market None bonus plans require a proportion bonuses.
An award under the plan is vested of the bonus earned to be structured in the form of a nil cost option deferred into Company shares to acquire that number of shares in the Company that has a market value on the date of the award equivalent to the amount of bonus deferred.
The award may normally only be exercised by the Executive after two years if he is still an employee.
No additional or matching shares can be earned.
The Babcock UK employees including Yes Expired 2009.
103,575 Purchased in 1999 Approved Executive Directors who met the market HM Revenue and Customs All vested Executive Share necessary service criteria and fresh approved performance-linked share Option Scheme issue awards in the form of options to acquire shares in the Company at market price at the time of the award.
58 Employee share schemes and plans continued Outstanding Performanceawards Source of Name of Plan Who it covers related?
Summary description vested shares Babcock 1999 Executive Directors and other Yes Expired 2009.
421,115 Purchased in Unapproved employees as selected by the the market Options to acquire shares at their All vested Executive Share Remuneration Committee and fresh market price on the date of grant subject Option Scheme issue to achievement of performance targets measured over a three-year performance period.
VT US Sharesave Employees of VT Group Inc No The scheme allows employees to save 20,704 Fresh issue Scheme monthly amounts to be applied, at the All vested employees election, to the exercise of options to acquire shares at the market price at the date of grant.
The outstanding options are to acquire shares in the former VT Group plc which, following the Scheme of Arrangement in connection with its acquisition by the Company in 2010, are now effectively options to acquire shares in the Company.
Although savings can continue to be made, the amount capable of being applied to exercise of the option is fixed at the amount saved at the date of the acquisition of VT. Further information relating to awards under the LTIP, PSP, CSOP, Details of purchases of the Companys shares made in the year to DBP and the 1999 Schemes can be found in the Remuneration 31 March 2011, or since then to the date of this Report, by the report on pages 75 to 77.
Babcock Employee Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust are to be found in note 24 on pages 112 and 113.
Shares intended to be used to satisfy existing share awards and options granted under the PSP, CSOP, L-TIP, 1999 Schemes and the Research and development DBP are held by the trustees of the Babcock Employee Share Trust The Group commits resources to research and development to the and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust.
The trustees of these extent management considers necessary for the evolution and Schemes do not intend to exercise the voting rights attached to the growth of its business.
As at 16 May 2011, the total number of ordinary shares in the trusts was 776,053, which represented 0.22% of the Companys issued share capital.
Shares are also held by the Charitable and political donations trustees of the Approved Employee Share Ownership Plan.
The During the year the Group donated 236,000 2010: 197,000 to trustees of that plan exercise voting rights attached to those shares charitable organisations.
Donations were typically of relatively small in accordance with directions from the employees on whose behalf individual amounts made to a range of local and national charitable they are held.
organisations or events, for example: schools and other educational or training institutions or charities: hospital, hospice or medical The trustees of the Babcock Employee Share Trust effectively charities: charities helping serving and or former servicemen and waive dividends on shares held by them see note 24 on pages women: sporting events or charities: and charities intended to 112 and 113. benefit children and young adults.
No donations were made during the year for political purposes.
Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting in July 2010, members authorised Supplier payments the Company to make market purchases of up to 35,870,029 of The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with practices its own ordinary shares of 60p each.
That authority expires at the or arrangements agreed with them.
The Company itself had forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July 2011 when a resolution 113,000 in trade creditors at 31 March 2011 representing 31 will be put to renew it so as to allow purchases of up to a maximum creditor days and 87,000 in trade creditors at 31 March 2010 of 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
No shares in the representing 32 creditor days.
Company have been purchased by the Company in the period from 8 July 2010 the date the current authority was granted to the date of this Report.
The Company currently does not hold any treasury shares.
59 Other statutory and regulatory information, including Directors responsibility statement continued Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions In the event of a change of majority control of Babcock International Group PLC, the MoD may request information regarding the new Under their respective Articles of Association, the Directors of controlling entity and in certain circumstances, including if it is not the Company and of Group subsidiary companies are, and were satisfied as regards the financial affairs and standing of the new during the year to 31 March 2011, entitled to be indemnified by, entity, serve a Change in Circumstance notice, and thereafter respectively, the Company and those UK subsidiaries of which can elect to terminate the Agreement.
The Agreement can also they are or were Directors against liabilities and costs incurred in be terminated if the MoD considers that unacceptable ownership, connection with the execution of their duties or the exercise of influence or control domestic or foreign has been acquired over their powers, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Clyde and that this is contrary to the essential security interests of There are also qualifying third-party indemnity provisions entered the UK.
This might apply, for example, in circumstances where any into between the Company and Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas in non-UK person s directly or indirectly acquire control over more their capacity as Directors of International Nuclear Solutions PLC than 30% of the shares of the Company, though such a situation is a subsidiary of the Company which were in force at the date of not of itself such a circumstance unless the MoD in the given approval of this Report.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity situation considers it to be so.
Any level of ownership by particular provisions are also in place for the benefit of Directors of the Group foreign or domestic persons may, on the facts of the case, be companies that act as trustees of Group pension schemes.
Persons with contractual or other arrangements with the Group Articles of Association of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited and which are essential to the business of the Group Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited The majority of the Groups revenue comes from the United The Articles of Association of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited Kingdom Ministry of Defence through various contracts across DRDL and Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited RRDL, both subsidiaries different businesses, which together are essential to the business of the Company, grant the MoD as the holder of a special share in of the Group as a whole, as are its borrowing facilities with banks each of those companies certain rights in certain circumstances.
Such rights include the right to require the sale of shares in, and the right to remove Directors of, the company concerned.
Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control The circumstances when such rights might arise include where the MoD considers that unacceptable ownership, influence or control Many agreements entered into by the Company or its subsidiaries domestic or foreign has been acquired over the company in contain provisions entitling the other parties to terminate them in question and that this is contrary to the essential security interests the event of a change of control of the Group company concerned, of the UK.
This might apply, for example, in circumstances where which can often be triggered by a takeover of the Company.
any non-UK person s directly or indirectly acquire control over The following agreements are those agreements which the more than 30% of the shares of the Company, though such a Company considers to be significant to the Group as a whole that situation is not of itself such a circumstance unless the MoD in the contain provisions giving the other party a specific right to terminate given situation considers it to be so.
Any level of ownership by them if the Company is subject to a change of control following a particular foreign or domestic persons may, on the facts of the case, takeover bid.
Marine The Company believes that RRDL presently has the right under its Articles of Association to request that the special share held by the Partnering Agreement dated 29 August 2002 between 1 The MoD in RRDL be redeemed.
Secretary of State for Defence 2 Babcock Marine Clyde Limited Clyde formerly Babcock Naval Services Limited and 3 Babcock International Group PLC Terms of Business Agreement ToBA dated 25 March 2010 between 1 The Secretary of State for Defence 2 Babcock Under the Partnering Agreement as subsequently amended, International Group PLC 3 Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited Babcock Marine Clyde Limited provides services to the Ministry of 4 Babcock Marine Clyde Limited and 5 Babcock Marine Defence MoD in relation to the operation of HM Naval Base Clyde.
Rosyth Limited In 2005, the period of the Agreement was extended and it will now expire in 2013.
The ToBA confirms Babcock as the MoDs key support partner in the maritime sector and covers the 15-year period from 2010 to 2025.
The MoD may terminate the ToBA in the event of a Change in Control of the Company in circumstances where, acting on the grounds of national security, the MoD considers that it is inappropriate for the new owners of the Company to become involved or interested in the Marine division.
Change in Control occurs where a person or group of persons that control the Company ceases to do so or if another person or group of persons acquires control of the Company.
60 Group Contracts with employees or Directors Borrowing facilities A description of those agreements with Directors that contain provisions relating to payments in the event of a termination of 600 million facility agreement originally dated 9 May 2007 employment following a change of control of the Company is set between the Company, as borrower, The Governor and Company out on page 79.
One senior employee, who is not a Director of the of the Bank of Scotland, J. P. Morgan plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, Company, has an agreement providing for payment of 12 months and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as mandated lead arrangers, salary plus 40% in lieu of all benefits in the event of a dismissal The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as facility agent, and a syndicate including constructive dismissal by the Company within 12 months of other financial institutions as original lenders as since amended following a change of control.
and restated The facility was originally established in part to fund the acquisition Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares of Devonport Management Limited in 2007 and in part to provide Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the funds for general corporate purposes.
The facility agreement Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether provides that in the event of a change of control of the Company, in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise, as the the lenders may, within a certain period, call for the prepayment Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine of any outstanding loans and cancel the credit facility.
or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
The Directors practice is to seek annual authority from Multi-Currency Loan Notes shareholders at each years Annual General Meeting to allot shares On 21 January 2010, the Company issued two series of loan notes including authority to allot free of statutory pre-emption rights up to Prudential Investment Management Inc. and certain of its to specified amounts and also to buy-back the Companys shares, affiliates : a 60 million 4.995% Series A Shelf Notes due again up to a specified amount.
21 January 2017 the Series A Shelf Notes : and b 40 million At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote 5.405% Series B Shelf Notes due 21 January 2020 the Series B on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
Shelf Notes together, the Multi-Currency Loan Notes.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising Each series is unsecured and unsubordinated and ranks pari passu voting rights, either by proxy or by being present in person, in with all other unsecured and unsubordinated financial indebtedness relation to resolutions to be proposed at a general meeting.
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled, the Company will redeem the Series A No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to Shelf Notes on 21 January 2017 and the Series B Shelf Notes on attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general meeting or 21 January 2020, respectively at their principal amount.
In the event to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they of a change of control of the Company before then, the Company or any person with an interest in their shares has been sent a notice must offer to pre-pay the Multi-Currency Loan Notes together with a under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon make whole premium.
public companies the power to require the provision of information with respect to interests in their voting shares and they or any US Dollar Loan Notes interested person have failed to supply the Company with the On 17 March 2011, the Company issued to 21 financial information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
institutions i US$150,000,000 aggregate principal amount The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of of 4.94% Series A Senior Notes due 17 March 2018 and ii those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall US$500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.64% Series B be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Senior Notes due 17 March 2021.
Each series is unsecured and Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the unsubordinated and ranks pari passu with all other unsecured and information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever unsubordinated financial indebtedness obligations of the Company.
In the event of a change of control of the Company before then, The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share the Company must offer to pre-pay the Notes.
which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards as Share plans preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class or classes from The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more than four of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights in the Company.
61 Other statutory and regulatory information, including Directors responsibility statement continued At the date of this report 358,838,092 ordinary shares of 60p each Internal controls have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the There has been a process for identifying, evaluating and managing London Stock Exchange.
significant risks throughout the year to 31 March 2011 and up to the date of the approval of the financial statements for that year.
Appointment and powers of Directors In respect of our financial reporting process and the process for A Director is appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting preparing our consolidated accounts, management monitors the of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors acting as a Board also have processes underpinning the Groups financial reporting systems the power to appoint a Director, but any person so appointed must through regular reporting and review, and data for consolidation be put up for reappointment by shareholders at the first Annual into the Groups financial statements are reviewed by management General Meeting following his or her appointment by the Board.
to ensure that they reflect a true and fair view of the Groups results in compliance with applicable accounting policies.
Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law and to any directions as may be given by the Company in general The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, reviews the meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company is effectiveness of the Companys internal control processes formally managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the at least once a year.
The Board considers the system to be effective Company that are not required to be exercised by the Company and in accordance with Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on in general meeting.
the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
Further information on the principal internal controls in use in the Company is to be Articles of Association found on pages 43 to 45.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by Auditors a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
They are available for inspection online at www.
co. uk and can also  LLP is willing to continue in office as be seen at the Companys registered office.
Independent auditor of the Company, and a resolution to reappoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors duty to avoid conflicts of interest Disclosure of relevant audit information The Company has adopted a formal procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation and management of Directors conflicts of So far as the Directors who are in office at the time of the approval interest and potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the of this Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information provisions of the Companies Act 2006. namely, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with the preparation of their auditors report of which The procedure requires Directors formally to notify the Board via the auditors are unaware.
Each such Director has taken all steps that the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any actual he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware or potential conflict of interest with their duties to the Company or of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors of any material change in existing actual or potential conflicts that are aware of that information.
may have been authorised by the Board.
Notified actual or potential conflicts will be reviewed by the Board as soon as possible.
Approval of report The Board will consider whether a conflict or potential conflict does, The Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2011, from in fact, exist and, if so, whether it is in the interest of the Company pages 1 to 63 of this Annual Report document, has been approved that it be authorised and, if so, on what terms.
In making their by the Board of Directors on 16 May 2011 and signed on its behalf judgement on this, the other Directors must have regard to their by: general duties to the Company.
A register is maintained for the Board of all such disclosures and the terms of any such authorisation.
Albert Dungate Company Secretary Authorisations may be revoked, or the terms on which they were given varied, at any time.
Cleared conflicts will in any event be 16 May 2011 reviewed annually by the Board.
In the event of any actual conflict arising in respect of any matter, mitigating action would also be considered for example, non-attendance of the Director concerned at all or part of Board meetings and non-circulation to him of relevant papers.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
62 Directors responsibility statement Each of the Directors listed below being the Board of Directors at the date of this Annual report and these financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the confirms that to the best of his knowledge: Directors Remuneration report and the Groups and the Companys financial statements in accordance with applicable law.
the Group financial statements set out on pages 82 to 124 which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial for each financial year.
In accordance with that law, the Directors position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and have prepared the Groups financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted the Business review contained on pages 2 to 45 includes a fair in the European Union, and the Companys financial statements and review of the development and performance of the business and the Directors Remuneration report in accordance with applicable the position of the Group, together with a description of the law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Groups and the Companys financial statements are required Mike Turner Chairman by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit and loss of the Group for that Peter Rogers Chief Executive year.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are Bill Tame Group Finance Director required to: Archie Bethel CEO, Marine and Technology select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Kevin Thomas CEO, Support Services consistently: John Rennocks Non-Executive Director make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Sir Nigel Essenhigh Non-Executive Director and prudent: Justin Crookenden Non-Executive Director state whether IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union and Sir David Omand Non-Executive Director applicable UK Accounting Standards, have been followed, subject Ian Duncan Non-Executive Director to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Groups and Companys financial statements respectively: and On behalf of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, Mike Turner CBE unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Chairman continue in business.
16 May 2011 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company, and enable them to ensure that the Groups financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and that the Companys financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
