o ur financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registrars Electronic communication All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including notification In December 2011, letters were sent to shareholders currently receiving of change of address, queries regarding loss of a share certificate and hard copies of communications requesting that they opt-in to continue dividend payments should be addressed to: receiving hard copies of communications, and would otherwise be defaulted to electronic communications.
For shareholders registered in the UK: Capita Registrars All of the Groups annual results, interim results and interim The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU management statements will be published on the Companys Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus website www.
If you are a shareholder and network extras: lines are open 8.30 am 5.30 pm wish to elect to receive electronic communications, please contact Monday Friday the appropriate registrar.
Telephone outside UK: 44 0 20 8639 3399 outside UK Shareholders who wish to receive hard copies of shareholder Fax: 020 8639 2342 information may revoke a previous instruction to receive electronic Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com communications at any time.
com ShareGift For shareholders registered in South Africa: ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001, South Africa value makes it uneconomical to sell on a commission basis.
Further Postal address: information can be found on its website www.
org or by PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107, South Africa calling them on 020 7930 3737.
com In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence Payment of dividends concerning investment matters.
If you are a shareholder and wish to have your dividends paid directly into a bank or building society, please complete a mandate form which These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK is available from the appropriate registrar.
shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are Share price information commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very The latest information on the Capital & Counties Properties PLC persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial share price is available on the Companys website Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by www.
The shares are traded on the LSE with investors is around 20,000.
The shares are traded on the JSE under the abbreviated name CAPCO and JSE code CCO.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Web-based enquiry service for shareholders Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to Shareholders registered in the UK can register at buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
com to access a range of online services any unsolicited investment advice: including: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Online proxy voting Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting Electing to receive shareholder communications electronically involved by visiting www.
uk register Viewing your holding balance, indicative share price and valuation Do not provide any personal details to callers e. g. bank details or Viewing any transaction on your holding including any dividend full address.
payments you have received If they are not properly authorised, report the matter to the FSA Updating your address details or registering a bank mandate to have either by calling 0300 500 5000 or visiting your dividends paid directly to your bank account www.
uk Accessing a wide range of shareholder information, including If the calls persist, hang up.
The FSA advise that, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
To register to use this service, you will need your investor code IVC, If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to which can be found on your share certificate s. receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Share dealing services The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
Additionally, UK shareholders may trade Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will their shares using the online and telephone dealing service that Capita be included in Company mailings.
To use this service, shareholders should contact Capita: within the UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p per minute plus More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found network extras: lines are open 8.30 am 5.30 pm Monday to Friday : on the CFEB website www.
124 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Heaven 42 and Munken Polar: both papers contain 100% virgin fibre sourced from wellmanaged, sustainable, FSC certified forests.
The pulp is bleached using both elemental chlorine free ECF and totally chlorine free TCF processes.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com Capital & Counties Properties PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Capital & Counties Properties PLC 15 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 4QZ Telephone 44 0 20 3214 9150 feedback@capitalandcounties.
