understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements THE DEMERGER Introduction Following the demerger, UK shareholders will need to apportion The Capital & Counties Properties PLC Group the Group the base cost for UK capital gains tax purposes of their pre-demerger demerged from its former parent company, Liberty International PLC Liberty International PLC shares between their post-demerger Capital subsequently renamed Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, with & Counties Properties PLC shares and their post-demerger Capital effect from 7 May 2010.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC has a Shopping Centres Group PLC shares.
The apportionment is made by premium listing on the official list of the UKLA, and a secondary listing reference to the value of Capital & Counties Properties PLC and Capital on the JSE Limited.
Shares in Capital & Counties Properties PLC were Shopping Centres Group PLC shares on 10 May 2010 in accordance admitted to dealings on the London and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges with the provisions of Section 272 of the Taxation and Chargeable Gains in May 2010.
Act 1992, and so the base cost will be split Capital & Counties Properties PLC 25.7198% and Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 74.2802%.
2010 historic financial information The demerger documents and pro forma information were prepared The share prices on the London Stock Exchange on 10 May 2010 being as is required in such situations to illustrate the Groups financial the relevant date were: Capital & Counties Properties PLC 119.25 pence: performance and its position as if the demerged Group and capital and Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 344.40 pence.
structure had existed at 1 January 2010.
On such pro forma basis, taking South African capital gains tax on demerger into account a cash transfer from Liberty International of 244 million, South African tax resident shareholders should read Part B of Part VI the Groups net assets as at 1 January 2010 were 731 million.
This of the Liberty International PLC Circular dated 12 March 2010 pages 57 represented an adjusted pro forma net asset value per share of 127 pence.
Shareholders who are in any doubt about their Capital structure tax position or how to use the share values in this announcement should On demerger the Groups parent company Capital & Counties consult their own professional tax advisers.
Properties PLC issued 621.8 million 80 pence ordinary shares to the For shareholders who hold their shares on capital account, on 10 May former Liberty International shareholders, on a one-for-one basis, 2010, there will be a part disposal for South African capital gains tax who were registered holders of ordinary shares at close on 7 May 2010. purposes of the South African shareholders pre-demerger Liberty As consideration, stock transfer certificates pertaining to the Groups International PLC shares.
now subsidiary undertakings were registered in the name of Capital & A South African shareholders capital gain or loss on this part disposal Counties Properties PLC.
Shares issued in consideration for investments is calculated as proceeds from the issue of shares by Capital & Counties in subsidiary undertakings represent a share-for-share exchange under Properties PLC, less a proportion of the capital gains tax base cost of the S612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Qualifying for relief under S612 Liberty International PLC ordinary shares held by them.
Proceeds for sheltered the Group from recognising share premium on the difference the part disposal will be calculated as the opening share price of Capital between the nominal value of the shares issued and the fair value of the & Counties Properties PLC on 10 May 2010 multiplied by the number assets received with this premium instead being taken to a Merger of shares issued in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 76A of Reserve.
In addition, the Group assumed all intragroup debt owed by its the Eighth Schedule to the Income Tax Act, Act 58 of 1962, as amended.
now subsidiary undertakings to Liberty International.
Shares attributed The amount of the capital gains tax base cost of the Liberty International to these assets did not qualify for relief therefore the difference between PLC shares which is apportioned to the part disposal will be calculated the nominal value of shares issued and the fair value of the assets by taking account of the opening share price of Capital & Counties received was credited to the Companys Share Premium Reserve.
Properties PLC on 10 May 2010 as a proportion of the value of the closing Upon demerger a number of reserves were realised and pro forma share price of Liberty International PLC shares on 7 May 2010. adjustments, which had been made for comparability as discussed The relevant prices on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange were: Liberty above, were then reversed.
International PLC Rand 51.50 on 7 May 2010: and Capital & Counties Finally, on 18 May 2010 a capital reduction became effective.
Properties PLC Rand 14.35 on 10 May 2010.
The reduction in capital was effected by reducing the nominal value The information contained above is correct to the best knowledge and belief of of each ordinary share on issue from 80 pence per share to 25 pence per Capital & Counties Properties PLC but does not constitute tax advice.
Capital & share, creating distributable reserves for the Company and reducing Counties Properties PLC does not accept any liability which may arise from use its capital account by 342 million.
of the information contained above.
Each shareholder is solely responsible for 2010 demerger share values the information he or she provides to tax authorities and other official bodies.
If uncertain, shareholders including shareholders outside the United Kingdom Base cost of post-demerger shares for UK capital gains tax and South Africa should consult their own appropriate professional adviser.
purposes UK tax resident shareholders should read Part A of Part VI of the Liberty International PLC Circular dated 12 March 2010 pages 55 to 56 inclusive in full.
Shareholders who are in any doubt about their tax position or how to use the share values in this circular should consult their own professional tax advisers.
