o ur financial statements GLOSSARY Capco IPD Capco represents Capital & Counties Properties PLC also referred to as Investment Property Databank Ltd, producer of an independent the Company and all its subsidiary companies, together referred to as benchmark of property returns.
ITZA Capital Shopping Centres Group or CSC In Terms of Zone A. ITZA is a method of calculating the floor area Capital Shopping Centres Group represents Capital Shopping Centres of a retail unit with relation to the frontage and first 20 feet 6.1 metres Group PLC formerly Liberty International PLC and all its subsidiary of depth and the value relating to that floor area.
Kwok Family Interests Diluted figures Conditional joint venture partner and major shareholder in a large Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of potential shares listed Hong Kong real estate developer.
issuable under employee incentive arrangements.
LBHF ECOA The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham.
The Earls Court and West Kensington Opportunity Area.
Liberty International EPRA Liberty International represents Liberty International PLC European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Practice subsequently renamed Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Recommendations intended to make financial statements of public real and all its subsidiary companies.
estate companies in Europe clearer, more transparent and comparable.
LIBOR EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV London Interbank Offer Rate The net assets as at the end of the year including the excess of the fair Like-for-like properties value of trading property over its cost and excluding the fair value of Investment properties which have been owned throughout both financial instruments, deferred taxation on revaluations and diluting periods without significant capital expenditure in either period, for the effect of those shares potentially issuable under employee share so income can be compared on a like-for-like basis.
For the purposes schemes divided by the diluted number of shares at year end.
of comparison of capital values, this will also include assets owned EPRA adjusted, diluted NNNAV at the previous balance sheet date but not necessarily throughout the EPRA diluted NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of derivatives prior period.
and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
Loan-to-value LTV EPRA adjusted earnings per share LTV is the ratio of attributable debt to the market value of an Profit for the year excluding gains or losses on the revaluation and investment property.
sale of investment and development property, write down on trading Net rental income property, changes in fair value of financial instruments and associated The Groups share of gross rental income less ground rents, payable close-out costs and the related taxation on these items divided by the service charge expenses and other non-recoverable charges, having weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
taken due account of bad debt provisions and adjustments to comply ERV estimated rental value with International Financial Reporting Standards regarding tenant The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the current lease incentives.
annual market rent of all lettable space net of any non-recoverable Nominal equivalent yield charges, before bad debt provision and adjustments required by Effective annual yield to a purchaser on the gross market value, International Financial Reporting Standards regarding tenant assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, and that the property lease incentives.
becomes fully occupied and that all rents revert to the current market GPE level ERV at the next review date or lease expiry.
The Groups joint venture partner in Occupancy rate EPRA The Great Capital Partnership.
The ERV of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage of the Gross income ERV of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, excluding The Groups share of passing rent plus sundry non-leased income.
Interest cover ratio ICR Passing rent Net rental income less administration costs divided by the net finance The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at the balance cost excluding the change in fair value of derivatives and any sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting adjustments made in exceptional finance costs.
respect of rent-free periods or tenant incentives, the reclassification of certain lease payments as finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and Interest rate swap expenses, and does not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in A derivative financial instrument enabling parties to exchange interest respect of unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as from car rate obligations for a predetermined period.
These are used by the parks etc.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in Group to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
Initial yield EPRA Pro forma Annualised net rent after deduction of revenue costs such as head The pro forma basis as outlined on page 140 of the Groups prospectus rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls and empty rates on dated 12 March 2010. investment properties expressed as a percentage of the gross market value before deduction of theoretical acquisition costs, consistent with REIT EPRAs net initial yield.
122 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements Section 34A Housing Act 1985 An amendment to the 1985 Act to enable tenants to take control of the management of their properties.
The amendment establishes a procedure enabling an organised group of tenants to require a local authority to transfer their homes to a housing association or similar body registered with the Tenant Services Authority the social housing regulator.
Tenants may form such a body and seek the transfer of the property to that body.
The legislation only applies to social rented tenants of local authorities.
It does not apply to tenants of housing associations even where the ultimate owner may be a local authority.
Section 34A requires implementation by regulations yet to come into effect.
These regulations will be enacted by the Department of Communities and Local Government.
No regulations have yet been made.
Tenant or lease incentives Any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically incentives are in the form of an initial rent-free period and or a cash contribution to fit-out the premises.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards the value of incentives granted to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Total property return Capital growth including gains and losses on disposals plus rent received less associated costs, including ground rent.
Total return The growth in EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV per share plus dividends per share during the period.
Total shareholder return The increase in the price of an ordinary share plus dividends during the period assuming re-investment in ordinary shares.
Underlying profit Profit for the year excluding impairment charges, net valuation gains losses including profits losses on disposals, net refinancing charges and swap termination costs.
Weighted average unexpired lease term The unexpired lease term to lease expiry weighted by ERV for each lease.
