146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt4 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt4 22 07 2011 13:40 Page 29 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Daejan Holdings PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Consolidated Financial Statements were authorised for issuance on 22 July 2011. a Statement of compliance The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 50 to 53. b Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling, the Companys functional currency, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: investment property, derivative financial instruments, fixed rate loans and borrowings and current asset investments.
Except as noted below, the accounting policies set out in this Note 1 have been applied consistently throughout the Group to all periods presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
During the financial year the following revised standards were adopted by the Company: l IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised l IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised The adoption of these revised standards did not have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following revised standard has been endorsed but is not effective for the financial year and has not been adopted early: l IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised The Company does not expect the adoption of the above revised standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Corporate Governance section on pages 20 and 21.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the events or amounts involved, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of complexity, judgement or estimation are set out in Note 1 u below.
c Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain Page 29
