146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt4 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt4 22 07 2011 13:40 Page 31 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 When the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property for continued future use as an investment property, the property remains an investment property, and is measured based on the fair value model.
Interest is not capitalised on such developments as the property is held at fair value.
A property interest under an operating lease is classified and accounted for as an investment property on a property-by-property basis when the Group holds it to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
Any such property interest under an operating lease classified as an investment property is carried at fair value.
Where material, the present value of minimum future lease payments under such leases is recognised as a liability.
When the Group uses only part of a property it owns and retains the remainder to generate rental income or capital appreciation, the extent of the Groups utilisation is considered to determine the classification of the property.
If the Groups utilisation is less than five per cent.
this is regarded as immaterial such that the whole property is classified as an investment property and stated at fair value.
Acquisitions and disposals are recognised on the date that the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
It is Group policy to sell, as individual units, flats in residential blocks which have been held as investment properties but which are now considered uneconomic to retain.
Occasionally there are sales of residential and commercial investment blocks.
Any resulting gain or loss based on the difference between sale proceeds and valuation is included in the Income Statement and taxation applicable thereto is shown as part of the taxation charge.
i Current Investments Investments comprise equity securities held for trading and classified as current assets stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the Income Statement.
j Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially stated at fair value and subsequently carried at cost less an allowance for impairment.
These assets are not discounted as it is deemed immaterial.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short term deposits.
These short term deposits are highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Bank overdrafts have therefore been included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows.
l Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
m Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at their amortised cost.
n Net rental income Net rental income comprises rent and service charges receivable less applicable provisions and costs associated with the properties.
Rental income from investment property leased out under operating Page 31
