146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt4 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt4 22 07 2011 13:40 Page 30 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable are taken into account.
d Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
e Income available for distribution Under the Articles of Association of certain Group investment undertakings, realised capital surpluses are not available for distribution as dividends.
f Foreign currency translation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on re-translation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
The cumulative translation difference for all foreign operations was deemed to be zero as at the date of transition to IFRS.
The year end and average rates used for these purposes were as follows: Year end Average 2011 2010 2011 2010 US Dollar 1.60 1.52 1.56 1.60 g Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk arising from operational and financing activities.
As these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, they are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised, and subsequently recorded, at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would recover or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the credit worthiness of the swap counterparties.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
h Investment property IFRS defines investment properties as those which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
All of the Groups property portfolio falls within this definition.
Investment property is initially recognised at cost and subsequently recorded at fair value.
External, independent valuation firms having appropriate recognised professional qualifications and recent relevant experience in the location and category of property being valued, value the portfolio annually at the Companys year end.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The valuations are prepared either by considering the aggregate of the net annual rent receivable from the properties using a market yield which reflects the risks inherent in the net cash flow which is then applied to the net annual rents, or on a sales comparison basis.
Any gains or losses arising from a change in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement.
