146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt4 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt4 22 07 2011 13:40 Page 33 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 s Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
t Loans and borrowings Floating rate loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently recorded at amortised cost.
Fixed rate loans and borrowings are initially recognised, and subsequently recorded, at fair value.
In the case of floating rate loans and borrowings, transaction costs are deducted from the fair value at recognition and any differences between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Previously, the adjustment required to re-measure fixed rate loans and borrowings at fair value at each balance sheet date has been included within Fair Value Gains and Losses on Financial Instruments in the Income Statement and as part of Derivative Financial Instruments within Trade and Other Payables in the Balance Sheet.
In order to show the carrying value of fixed rate loans and borrowings more clearly, the required adjustment is now shown separately in the Income Statement and within the carrying value of the fixed rate component of Loans and Borrowings in the Balance Sheet.
Comparative amounts have been reclassified accordingly by transferring an amount of 15,224,000 from Derivative Financial Instruments to Loans and Borrowings, 211,000 against Current Liabilities and 15,013,000 against Non-current Liabilities.
u Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates The Groups significant accounting policies are set out above.
Not all of these policies require management to make subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to provide further detail relating to those accounting policies that management consider particularly significant because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
i Property valuations The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently subjective, depending on many factors, including the individual nature of each property, its location and expected future rental values, market yields and comparable market transactions.
Therefore the valuations are subject to a degree of uncertainty and are made on the basis of assumptions which may not prove to be accurate, particularly in periods of market volatility or low transaction volumes, as is the case in current economic conditions.
As noted in Note 1 h above, all the Groups properties are valued by external valuers with appropriate qualifications and experience.
ii Income taxes The tax treatment of some transactions and calculations cannot be determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authorities.
In such cases, the Groups policy is to be prudent in its assessment of the tax benefit which may accrue in accordance with the contingent asset rules in IAS 37.
Where the final outcome of such matters is different from the amounts initially recorded, those differences will be reflected in the income and deferred taxes amounts at the time of formal resolution.
Page 33 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt4 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt4 22 07 2011 13:40 Page 34 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Additionally, judgement has been exercised in relation to the recognition of deferred tax assets where the utilisation of the underlying tax losses is uncertain.
The Groups operational policy is generally to hold its investment property for the long term.
Consequently, the revalued carrying amount of its properties will be recovered through use and thus the deferred tax relating to the revaluation is calculated accordingly, i. e. without taking account of indexation.
iii Fixed interest rate loans and borrowings The treatment of fixed rate debt as at fair value through profit and loss reflects the Groups overall management, on a fair value basis, of its investment property portfolio together with the large majority of the debt which finances it.
This treatment also is in order to provide consistency of accounting measurement between fixed rate debt and floating rate debt which has been fixed through the use of interest rate swaps: these two categories of debt comprise the large majority of the Groups total loans and borrowings.
iv Valuation of hedging instruments The fair value of hedging instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
Management, based on independent advice, uses its judgement to select appropriate methods and assumptions which are based mainly on market conditions existing at the balance sheet date.
v Trade receivables Management uses details of the age of trade receivables and the status of any disputes together with external evidence of the credit status of the counterparty in making judgements concerning any need to impair the carrying values.
