that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Associated Segmental reporting entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group consists of two separate segments for internal reporting regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate Revenue resources to the segments and to assess their performance, being Revenue is recognised at legal completion in respect of the total housebuilding and commercial developments.
These segments therefore proceeds of building and development and an appropriate proportion comprise the primary reporting segments within the financial statements.
of revenue from construction contracts is recognised by reference to All of the Groups operations are within Britain, which is one geographic the stage of completion of contract activity.
Revenue is measured at market in the context of managing the Groups activities.
the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents the amounts receivable for the property, net of discounts and VAT.
The Goodwill sale proceeds of part-exchange properties are not included in revenue.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the separately identifiable net Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal assets and liabilities acquired.
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and Construction contracts businesses is capitalised as an asset and reviewed for impairment Revenue is only recognised on a construction contract where the at least annually.
outcome can be estimated reliably.
Variations to, and claims arising in respect of, construction contracts, are included in revenue to the extent For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each that they have been agreed with the customer.
Revenue and costs are of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity synergies of the combination at acquisition.
Cash-generating units to at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of work which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment at least performed to date.
Contracts are only treated as construction contracts annually.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less when they have been specifically negotiated for the construction of a than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated development or property.
When it is probable that the total costs on a first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit construction contract will exceed total contract revenue, the expected and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the loss is recognised as an expense in the income statement immediately.
carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not Amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in trade subsequently reversed.
receivables and stated at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account for construction contracts are Intangible assets deducted from amounts recoverable on construction contracts.
Brands Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
The Group has Payments received in excess of amounts recoverable on construction capitalised as intangible assets brands that have been acquired.
contracts are included in trade payables.
Acquired brand values are calculated using discounted cash flows.
Where a brand is considered to have a finite life, it is amortised over Exceptional items its useful life on a straight-line basis.
Where a brand is capitalised Items that are material in size or unusual or infrequent in nature are with an indefinite life, it is not amortised.
The factors that result in the presented as exceptional items in the income statement.
The Directors durability of brands capitalised are that there are no material legal, are of the opinion that the separate presentation of exceptional items regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that provides helpful information about the Groups underlying business limit the useful life of these intangible assets.
Examples of events that, inter alia, may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional are the restructuring of existing The Group carries out an annual impairment review of indefinite and newly-acquired businesses, refinancing costs, gains or losses life brands as part of the review of the carrying value of goodwill, on the disposal of businesses or individual assets, pension scheme by performing a value-in-use calculation, using a discount factor curtailments and asset impairments, including land, work in progress, based upon the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Investments Restructuring costs Interests in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for at cost less Restructuring costs are recognised in the income statement when the any provision for impairment.
Group has a detailed plan that has been communicated to the affected parties.
A liability is accrued for unpaid restructuring costs.
Where share-based payments are granted to the employees of subsidiary undertakings by the Parent Company, they are treated Profit loss from operations as a capital contribution to the subsidiary and the Companys Profit loss from operations includes all of the revenue and costs derived investment in the subsidiary is increased accordingly.
from the Groups operating businesses.
Profit loss from operations excludes finance costs, finance income, the Groups share of profits or losses from joint ventures and tax.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 73
