Financial risk management continued b Market risk price risk continued iii Foreign exchange rate risk As at 30 June 2011, the Group has fixed rate US Dollar denominated private placement notes of $267.2m 2010: $187.2m.
In order to mitigate risks associated with the movement in the foreign exchange rate, the Group has a policy of fully hedging the principal of its US Dollar denominated debt and a significant proportion of the interest payments.
The Group therefore entered into foreign exchange swap arrangements on the issue of its US Dollar denominated debt, all of which are designated as cash flow hedges.
Accordingly the Group has no net exposure to foreign currency risk on the principal of its US Dollar debt.
The foreign exchange swaps match 82% of the interest payments and therefore the Group is subject to foreign exchange rate risk upon the remaining 18%.
Details of the Groups foreign exchange swaps are provided in note 24.
Sensitivity analysis In the year ended 30 June 2011, if the US Dollar per Pound Sterling exchange rate had been $0.20 higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups pre-tax loss would increase decrease by 0.7m 2010: 0.4m, the Groups post-tax loss would increase decrease by 0.5m 2010: 0.3m and the Groups equity would decrease increase by 0.5m 2010: 0.3m.
c Credit risk In the majority of cases, the Group receives cash upon legal completion for private sales and receives advance stage payments from Registered Social Landlords for social housing.
The Group has 169.4m 2010: 136.3m of available for sale financial assets which expose it to credit risk, although this asset is spread over a large number of properties.
As such, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The Group manages credit risk in the following ways: The Group has a credit policy that is limited to financial institutions with high credit ratings as set by international credit rating agencies and has a policy determining the maximum permissible exposure to any single counterparty.
The Group only contracts derivative financial instruments with counterparties with which the Group has an ISDA Master Agreement in place.
These agreements permit net settlement, thereby reducing the Groups credit exposure to individual counterparties.
The maximum exposure to any counterparty at 30 June 2011 was 15.8m 2010: 100.0m of cash on deposit with a financial institution.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, net of any allowance for losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
As at 30 June 2011, the Company was exposed to 780.7m 2010: 898.5m of credit risk in relation to intercompany loans, as well as financial guarantees, performance bonds and the bank borrowings of subsidiary undertakings.
Further details are provided in notes 33 and 34. d Capital risk management cash flow risk The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and meet its liabilities as they fall due whilst maintaining an appropriate capital structure.
The Group manages as capital its equity, as set out in the condensed consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity, its bank borrowings being overdrafts, loan notes and bank loans and its private placement notes, as set out in note 23.
The Group is subject to the prevailing conditions of the UK economy and the Groups earnings are dependent upon the level of UK house prices.
UK house prices are determined by the UK economy and economic conditions including employment levels, interest rates, consumer confidence, mortgage availability and competitor pricing.
The management of these operational risks is set out in the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 32 to 35.
In addition, the other methods by which the Group can manage its short-term and long-term capital structure include adjusting the level of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders assuming the Company is paying a dividend, issuing new share capital, arranging debt to meet liability payments, and selling assets to reduce debt.
106 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
