Contingent liabilities a Contingent liabilities related to subsidiaries The Company has guaranteed certain bank borrowings of its subsidiary undertakings.
Certain subsidiary undertakings have commitments for the purchase of trading stock entered into in the normal course of business.
In the normal course of business the Group has given counter indemnities in respect of performance bonds and financial guarantees.
Management estimate that the bonds and guarantees amount to 434.1m 2010: 399.0m, and confirm that at the date of these financial statements the possibility of cash outflow is considered minimal and no provision is required.
b Contingent liabilities related to joint ventures At 30 June 2011, the Group has an obligation to repay 0.9m 2010: 0.9m of grant monies received by a joint venture upon certain future disposals of land.
The Group also has a number of performance guarantees in respect of its joint ventures, requiring the Group to complete development agreement contractual obligations in the event that the joint ventures do not perform their obligations under the terms of the related contracts.
c Contingent liabilities related to associates During the year, the Group provided bank guarantees to the value of 3.1m 2010: nil to one of its associates.
d Contingent liabilities related to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of all known legal claims and all legal actions in progress.
The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims, counterclaims and all other actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action, claim or counterclaim is unlikely to succeed, or a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligations cannot be made.
i Incident at Battersea Park Road, London One of the principal subsidiaries within the Group is BDW Trading Ltd BDW.
On 26 September 2006 at Battersea Park Road, London, a tower crane supplied to BDW with operator by a third party contractor collapsed.
The collapse of the crane was not contained within the boundaries of the site and the crane operator and a member of the public were killed.
In addition, significant damage was caused to a neighbouring block of flats and shops which resulted in the evacuation of a number of local residents due to concerns about structural stability.
There is an ongoing criminal investigation by the London Metropolitan Police and the Health and Safety Executive to ascertain whether any of the parties involved are criminally liable for manslaughter or under relevant health and safety legislation.
Although no assurance can be given, the Board has been advised that on the information available as at 12 September 2011, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report and Accounts, the risk of a finding of criminal liability against BDW appears low.
A number of civil claims brought against BDW in connection with the same incident have now been settled.
All such claims are covered by the Groups insurance, to the extent not recoverable from the third party contractors insurers.
ii Incident at Bedfont Azure Lakes On 28 February 2008, a resident was found dead and another seriously injured in housing association accommodation at the Bedfont Azure Lakes site that was developed by BDW.
It is believed that the cause of both the death and the serious injury was due to carbon monoxide poisoning.
Following investigations by the Police and the Health and Safety Executive, criminal proceedings are being pursued against the plumbing and heating sub-contractor selected by BDW for the development, and against an individual registered gas engineer.
The criminal charges are understood to include alleged manslaughter caused by gross negligence and breach of gas safety legislation.
It is also understood that the criminal trial against these defendants is now scheduled for March 2012.
Meanwhile the Police and Health and Safety Executive investigations are still ongoing.
Civil claims have been made against BDW by both the housing association and by various residents on the estate where the incident occurred.
A number of claims have been settled by the Groups insurers but the remainder are still outstanding and are being dealt with by the Groups insurers, although the extent to which these are covered by the Groups insurance or the insurance of other parties cannot, at present, be clearly ascertained.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 119
