Table 2 Executive Directors salaries Share incentive schemes During the year the Committee undertook a review of the share incentive Per annum schemes currently in operation and agreed that grant levels, performance 2011 2010 criteria and vesting schedules remain appropriate to the Companys current circumstances and prospects.
There have been no significant Mark Clare 642,600 642,600 amendments to the terms and conditions of any entitlement under any David Thomas 408,000 408,000 scheme.
Details of all Executive Directors share options and long-term Steven Boyes 390,000 390,000 performance plans are set out in Tables 7 and 8 on pages 57 and 58.
Clive Fenton 390,000 390,000 Each of the share schemes currently in operation is subject to two Annual bonus performance conditions and a three-year performance period.
Half of The Companys annual bonus plan aims to motivate and reward the awards will vest on attainment of a performance target on relative Executive Directors for the achievement of demanding financial TSR and the other half on the attainment of a target based on EPS.
objectives and key strategic measures as set by the Board.
The TheTSR and EPS performance conditions are calculated as follows: Committee ensures that performance measures for bonuses are stretching whilst having regard to the nature and risk profile of the TSR Company.
The performance measures against which bonus payments The TSR element is calculated as the percentage change in share for the 2011 12 financial year will be determined include pre-tax profit, priceplus dividends over a three-year performance period against cash generation, personal objectives and employee engagement.
thecomparator group comprising the FTSE 250 excluding investment Inaddition to these performance measures, the Committee has trusts, with the opening share price averaged across the dealing days introduced a penalty whereby 10% of any annual bonus earned will inthe three-month period ending immediately before the start of the be forfeited for failure to achieve the on-target performance measure performance period and the closing price averaged over the dealing for either customer service or health and safety.
As a result, were daysin the last three months of the performance period.
Performance neither ofthese on-target performance measures to be achieved, against the TSR target is measured at the end of a three-year in aggregate 20% of the annual bonus earned would be forfeited.
For the financial year ending 30 June 2012, the Committee has EPS maintained the maximum cash bonus for Executive Directors at The EPS for the Company is calculated by dividing the growth in 100% of base salary.
However, to ensure that the Companys EPS over a three-year performance period by the weighted average bonus arrangements continue to incentivise management to rebuild number of ordinary shares in issue at the end of the performance profitability, Executive Directors may be awarded a supplemental bonus, period excluding those held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
For all of up to 50% of base salary, for significant over-performance measured schemes except for the 2009 10 ESOS performance against the against the pre-tax profit target only.
This element will be deferred into EPS target is tested after the end of a three-year performance period.
shares in the Company, held under the Co-Investment Plan for a period Details in respect of the testing of the 2009 10 ESOS can be found of three years with a continued employment condition.
No other on page 52 ofthis Remuneration report.
performance conditions will apply to this award and the Committee has agreed that no matching shares will be awarded against these New awards to be granted during the financial year ending shares.
Accordingly, the total annual bonus opportunity for Executive 30 June 2012 Directors remains at 150% of base salary for the 2011 12 financial year.
As per the 2010 11 financial year, the Committee has decided to grant The payment for on-target performance will remain at 75% of base LTPP awards to Executive Directors during the financial year ending salary.
Itis worth noting that the on-target and maximum bonus 30June 2012. potential for the forthcoming year still remain below the levels in place prior to the economic downturn, which were at 130% and 180% The LTPP was approved by shareholders at the AGM held in November of salary respectively.
In addition, the Committee has retained a 2003.
Awards under the LTPP are at the discretion of the Committee, general discretion in the making of bonus payments, and will continue taking into account individual performance and the overall performance to consider, among other factors, the underlying financial performance of the Group.
An employee is not eligible to receive options under the ofthe business relative to the sector in its decision making.
ESOS and awards under the LTPP in the same financial year.
For the financial year ended 30 June 2011, the Committee has approved Any LTPP awards that are made in the 2011 12 financial year the a bonus payment of approximately 55% of base salary to Executive 2011 12 LTPP Award will not exceed 150% of base salary and will be Directors based on performance against financial, non-financial and subject to three-year TSR and EPS conditions.
The vesting of half of the individual objectives.
The Committee believes that this level of bonus is 2011 12 LTPP Award subject to a TSR condition will be dependent upon justified on the basis that the Company has delivered operating profit the Companys performance over three years, commencing 1 July 2011, before exceptional items which determined 50% of the total bonus for against the constituents of the FTSE 250, excluding investment trusts.
the year of 135m against the minimum threshold established for the bonus of 135m and the target level of 150m.
No part of the annual bonus is pensionable.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 51 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE Levels of vesting against the TSR condition will be as follows: afundamental measure of the Groups underlying performance and are directly linked to the generation of returns to shareholders.
Rank of Companys TSR against Level of vesting comparator group of TSR element Performance conditions Upper Quartile or above 100% Half of the 2009 10 ESOS will vest on the attainment of a performance Median 25% target based on relative TSR, and the other half on the attainment of a Below Median 0% target based on EPS growth.
Between Upper Quartile Straight-line basis and Median between 25% and 100% Levels of vesting against the TSR will be as follows: The other half of the award which is based on a EPS measure will Rank of Companys TSR against Level of vesting veston the attainment of the EPS target for the financial year ending comparator group of TSR element 30June2014.
The Committee believes that a wide target range Upper Quartile or above 100% should be set forthe EPS element in order to ensure full engagement Median 25% from management by having an achievable minimum vesting level Below Median 0% whilst requiring outstanding performance to achieve maximum level Between Upper Quartile Straight-line basis and Median between 25% and 100% ofvesting.
Accordingly, the levels of vesting against the EPS will be as follows: The EPS element of the award has three separate annual components with the Committee setting targets annually for the following financial EPS target Level of vesting year.
Performance against each annual EPS target is tested at the end Financial year 2013 14 of EPS element of each of the financial years during the performance period and each 30 pence per share or higher 100% years EPS target will determine the vesting level of one-sixth of the total 12.5 pence per share 25% award.
However, actual vesting, if any, will not take place until after Below 12.5 pence per share 0% 30June 2012.
Both performance conditions applying to the 2009 10 Between 12.5 pence and 30 Straight-line basis ESOS are subject to an overriding Committee discretion to take into pence per share between 25% and 100% account, among other factors, performance relative to the sector and the underlying financial performance of the business including free In addition to the above, vesting of the 2011 12 LTPP Award will be cash flow.
subject to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the The EPS targets are before exceptional items and the impact of the Company over the performance period warrants the level of vesting reduction in the corporation tax rate from 28% to 26%.
The level asdetermined by applying the above targets.
If the Committee is not ofvesting for the financial years ended 30 June 2010 and 2011 were ofthis view, then it is empowered to reduce the level of vesting.
asfollows: 2010 11 2009 10 Partial vesting of the 2009 10 ESOS Amount of EPS Element Available The ESOS was approved by shareholders at the AGM held in for Vesting one-third of 50% 16.67% 16.67% November2008.
It was the view of the Committee that the focus Minimum Target 2.8 pence -4.4 pence onshare price growth arising from the use of market value options On Target 4.3 pence -2.8 pence combined with performance conditions would ensure strong alignment Maximum Target 7.3 pence 1.8 pence with the interests and expectations of shareholders at the time.
Options Achievement Against Target 39.0% 57.6% awardedunder the ESOS must normally be held for a minimum of Actual Level of Vesting 6.5% 9.6% threeyears from the date of grant before they can be exercised and In 2010 the Company disclosed that 10.17% of the award had vested for the 2009 10 financial year.
Due lapse if not exercised within ten years of grant.
The maximum number toachange in the Companys tax charge for that year, which was included in the 2010 published financial ofshares over which an employee may be granted options in any statements, the Companys EPS was marginally reduced.
Accordingly, the level of vesting was reduced to 9.6%.
financial year under the ESOS will be limited so that the aggregate cost of exercise does not exceed 200% of their annual salary.
The exercise It should be noted that the approach of using three one-year targets ofoptions granted under the ESOS is subject to the achievement was adopted due to the uncertain economic conditions prevailing in ofobjective performance conditions set by the Committee.
2009 when options under the ESOS were first granted.
The Committee has since reverted back to the policy of setting three-year targets.
As the Committee has decided to grant awards under the LTPP for the2011 12 financial year it will not be making any grants under the Details of the grants made under the ESOS in December 2008 the ESOS as an employee is not eligible to receive options under the 2008 09 ESOS can be found on page 58 of this Remuneration report.
ESOSand awards under the LTPP in the same financial year.
Executive share awards granted during the year The last grant made under the ESOS was the 2009 10 ESOS, which Long-Term Performance Plan issubject to TSR and EPS performance conditions.
The Committee There is currently one unvested award under the LTPP which was chose these targets as the most appropriate measure of financial granted by the Company in December 2010 the 2010 11 LTPP.
performance for a housebuilder at the time of the grant, as they are Awards under the 2010 11 LTPP were based on an allocation of ordinary 52 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 shares equivalent in value to a maximum of 150% of base salary and are ofbase salary.
The Committee has agreed that no matching shares will subject to three-year TSR and EPS performance conditions.
There is no be awarded against these shares.
Any shares so awarded are subject to re-testing of performance conditions.
Performance conditions For the financial years ended 30 June 2010 and 2011 no supplemental Half of the 2010 11 LTPP will vest on the attainment of a performance bonus, as defined on page 51, was earned and therefore no shares target based on TSR over a three-year performance period commencing were deferred into the Plan.
As a result, there are currently no 1 July 2010. outstanding awards under the Plan.
The levels of vesting against the TSR targets are as follows: Savings Related Share Option Scheme The Savings Related Share Option Scheme the SRSOS was Rank of Companys TSR against Level of vesting approved by shareholders at the AGM held in November 2008. comparator group of TSR element Upper Quartile and above 100% The SRSOS was implemented in order to promote share ownership Median 25% amongst all employees of the Company, linking employee benefit to Below Median 0% theperformance of the Company and to aid retention of staff.
All Between Upper Quartile Straight-line basis employees and Executive Directors who work more than 25 hours and Median between 25% and 100% perweek, and have five or more years of continuous service with theCompany or any subsidiary in the Group nominated to join in The other half of the 2010 11 LTPP will vest on the attainment of the SRSOS ending on the date of grant are eligible to participate in EPS targets for the financial year ending 30 June 2013.
The Board has discretion to reduce the period of qualifying believes that a wide target range should be set for the EPS element service and to invite other employees of the Group to participate.
inorder to ensure full engagement from management by having an Under the SRSOS, employees can save up to 250 per month for achievable minimum vesting level whilst requiring outstanding three or fiveyears and receive options to purchase the Companys performance to achieve maximum level of vesting.
Accordingly, shares atadiscount of up to 20% on the market value.
In March 2011, the EPS targets and corresponding levels of vesting are as follows: 481employees 11.5% of those eligible applied to participate in the thirdgrant of options under the SRSOS.
EPS target Level of vesting Financial year 2012 13 of EPS element 25 pence per share or higher 100% Outstanding Executive share awards 10 pence per share 25% Executive Share Option Plan The award granted under the Executive Share Option Plan the ESOP Less than 10 pence per share 0% in 2003 vested in 2006, however, there are a number of participants, Between 10 pence and Straight-line basis 25 pence per share between 25% and 100% including Steven Boyes, who are still to exercise the options granted tothem.
In addition to the above performance targets, the 2010 11 LTPP is subject to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee The ESOP was adopted by the Company in November 1997.
Any must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the options granted under the ESOP are required to be held for a minimum Company over the performance period warrants the level of vesting of three years from the date of grant before they can be exercised and asdetermined by applying the above targets.
If the Committee is not will lapse if not exercised within ten years of the grant date.
The level of ofthisview, it has the authority to reduce the level of vesting as it vesting of these options was subject to the achievement of objective deemsappropriate.
performance conditions set by the Committee.
Co-Investment Plan Under the rules of the ESOP no further options can be granted under The Co-Investment Plan the Plan was approved by shareholders at this plan.
Options which have been granted to Executive Directors in the AGM held in November 2005 and any annual bonus earned above previous years remain unchanged and are set out on page 58. target will normally be compulsorily deferred into shares held under this Plan the Basic Award.
The Executive Directors also have the Executive share awards lapsed during the year opportunity tovoluntarily defer additional amounts of annual bonus Executive Share Option Scheme up to a maximum of 25% of base salary into the Plan.
The options granted under the 2008 09 ESOS were subject to a Returnon Capital Employed ROCE financial performance measure, Matching awards will be made by the Company, if approved by the calculated as operating profit measured across the whole financial Committee, at the rate of one for one for compulsory deferral and at year to 30 June 2011 divided by shareholder funds plus net debt less amaximum of four for one for voluntary deferral the Matching Award.
goodwill and intangible assets being the average of the 12 month-end Any Matching Awards will be subject to performance conditions figures during the same year.
There is no opportunity to retest any measured over a period of three years.
The Committee has decided to use the Plan to hold shares awarded in The options were tested after the year end and as the ROCE respect of any supplemental bonus earned up to a maximum of 50% performance target was not achieved, the options lapsed.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 53
