ACCOUNTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES Year ended 30 June 2011 Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there Basis of preparation is a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being at International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by least twelve months from the date of these financial statements.
For this the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, International reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations financial statements.
and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations as adopted and endorsed by the European Union EU and with those Adoption of new and revised standards parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting In the year ended 30 June 2011, the Group has adopted: under IFRS and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards Regulation.
Amendment to IFRS2 Group cash-settled share-based payment The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost transactions: Amendment to IFRS1 Additional Exemptions for First-time convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale financial Adopters and Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS7 Disclosures assets, derivative financial instruments and share-based payments.
for First-time Adopters: Amendment to IAS32 Classification of rights A summary of the more significant Group accounting policies is set issues: IFRIC19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity out below.
Instruments: and Improvements to IFRSs issued in April 2009.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally The adoption of these standards, interpretations and amendments accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and has not had any impact upon the profit or net assets of the Group in assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities either the current year or comparative year and has not required any at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of additional disclosures.
revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, Basis of consolidation actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The most The Group financial statements include the results of Barratt significant estimates made by the Directors in these financial statements Developments PLC the Parent Company, incorporated in the UK, are set out in Critical accounting judgements and key sources of and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 June.
statements of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated from the date when control passes to the Group using the purchase method of Going concern accounting and up to the date control ceases.
All transactions with In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial subsidiaries and intercompany profits or losses are eliminated statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group on consolidation.
can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Business combinations The Groups business activities, together with factors which the Directors All of the subsidiaries identifiable assets and liabilities, including consider are likely to affect its future development, financial performance contingent liabilities, existing at the date of acquisition are recorded and financial position are set out in the Group Chief Executives review at their fair values.
All changes to those assets and liabilities and the on pages 6 to 11 and the Business review on pages 14 to 35.
The material resulting gains and losses that arise after the Group has gained control financial and operational risks and uncertainties that may impact the of the subsidiary are included in the post-acquisition income statement.
Groups performance and their mitigation are outlined on pages 32 to 35 and financial risks including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk Jointly controlled entities and capital risk are outlined in note 25 to the financial statements.
A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds an interest with one or more other parties where a contractual arrangement has The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider established joint control over the entity.
Jointly controlled entities are economic environment in which the Group operates.
As explained accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
in theprincipal risks and uncertainties on pages 32 to 35, factors that particularly impact upon the performance of the Group include Jointly controlled operations changes in the macroeconomic environment including buyer The Group enters into jointly controlled operations as part of its confidence, availability of mortgage finance for the Groups housebuilding and property development activities.
The Groups share customersand interest rates.
of profits and losses from its investments in such jointly controlled operations is accounted for on a direct basis and is included in the On 10 May 2011 the Group agreed a complete debt refinancing consolidated income statement.
The Groups share of its investments, package.
This provides the Group with around 1 billion of committed assets and liabilities is accounted for on a directly proportional basis facilities and private placement notes to May 2015, with some of the in the Group balance sheet.
Groups arrangements extending as far as 2021.
The covenant package is similar to before and the facilities provide appropriate headroom Associated entities above our current forecast debt requirements.
An associated entity is an entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, in which the Group holds a significant influence and 72 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
