REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Activities of the Group she is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health: iv he she The Company is the holding company ofthe Group.
The Groups is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board principal activities comprise acquiring and developing land, planning, for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his her office designing and constructing residential property developments and is vacated: v he she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his her selling the homes it builds.
These core activities are supported by the creditors generally: vi he she is prohibited by law from being a Director: Groups commercial development, urban regeneration, procurement, vii he she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Act: or viii he she is design andstrategic land capabilities.
removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Results and dividends Details relating to the retirement and re-election of Directors at each The loss from continuing activities for the year ended 30 June 2011 AGM can be found on page 40. was13.8m 2010: 118.4m.
Powers of the Directors No interim dividend was paid during the financial year 2010: nil.
Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special TheDirectors do not recommend a final dividend for the year ended resolution, the business of the Company is ultimately managed by 30June 2011 2010: nil.
theBoard who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or Enhanced Business Review otherwise.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the The Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review, Business Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its review and Group Finance Directors review on pages 2 to 31 together undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue comprise the Groups Enhanced Business Review.
debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liabilityor obligation of the Company to any third party.
Annual General Meeting The 2011 AGM will be held at the Royal College of Physicians, Qualifying third party indemnity provisions 11StAndrews Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE on Wednesday As at the date of this report, there are qualifying third party indemnity 16November 2011 at 2.30 p. m. The notice convening the 2011 AGM provisions governed by the Act in place under which the Company has isset out in a separate letter to shareholders.
agreed to indemnify the Directors, former Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company, together with those who have held or hold Directors and their interests these positions as officers of other Group companies or of associate Each of the Directors listed on pages 36 and 37 held office throughout oraffiliated companies and members of the Executive Committee, to thefinancial year and as at 30 June 2011.
William Shannon was also a the extent permitted by law and the Articles against all liability arising in Non-Executive Director of the Company during the financial year until respect of any act or omission in their duties.
In addition the Company hisresignation from the Board on 21 October 2010. maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance for each Director ofthe Group and its associated companies.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company together with the interests of the No Director of the Company or of any associated company shall Executive Directors in share options and awards of shares as at 30 June beaccountable to the Company or the members for any benefit 2011 and as at the date of this report are disclosed in the Remuneration provided pursuant to the Articles and receipt of any such benefit report on pages 56 to 59. shallnot disqualify any person from being or becoming a Director oftheCompany.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any Director have a material interest in a contract of significance in relation to the business Property, plant and equipment ofthe Group.
The Directors are of the opinion that the value of land and buildings included within the Groups property, plant and equipment is in excess Appointment and replacement of Directors of book value but that the difference is not material in relation to the In accordance with the Articles there shall be no less than two and affairs of the Group.
no more than 15 Directors appointed to the Board at any one time.
Directors may be appointed bythe Company by ordinary resolution or Disclosure of information to auditor by the Board.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit Directors to hold employment orexecutive office for such period information that is, information needed by the Companys auditor subject to the Companies Act 2006 the Act and on such terms inconnection with preparing their report of which the Companys as they may determine and may revoke orterminate any such auditor is not aware.
Directors are no longer subject toamaximum age limit.
Each of the Directors has taken all the relevant steps that they ought The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the tohave taken in accordance with their duty as a Director to make expiration of his her term of office.
The office of Director shall be vacated themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that if: i he she resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is such offer: ii his her resignation is requested by all of the other Directors given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: iii he ofsection 418 2 of the Act.
60 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
