Past service cost, until the scheme ceased to offer future accrual Trade and other receivables of defined benefit pensions to employees from 30 June 2009, was Trade and other receivables are financial assets with fixed or recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits were already determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They vested, and otherwise was amortised on a straight-line basis over are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater the average period until the benefits become vested.
than twelve months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets and are measured at amortised cost less an The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
The net of these balances represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as are classified as trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Impairment of financial assets Trade and other receivables are assessed for indicators of impairment Borrowing costs at each balance sheet date and are impaired where there is objective The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the evidence that the recovery of the receivable is in doubt.
acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of the asset where developments are considered to fall under Objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial the requirements of IAS23 Revised.
Otherwise, the Group expenses difficulty of the customer, default on payment terms or the customer borrowing costs in the period to which they relate through the going into liquidation.
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is reduced through Financial instruments the use of an allowance account.
When a trade or other receivable is Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited provisions of the instrument.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the financial For financial assets classified as available for sale, a significant or asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the prolonged decline in the value of the property underpinning the value asset to another entity.
ofthe loan or increased risk of default are considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
The Group derecognises a financial liability only when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
In respect of debt instruments classified as available for sale financial assets, increases in the fair value of assets previously subject to Financial assets impairment, which can be objectively related to an event occurring Non-derivative financial assets are classified as either available for sale after recognition of the impairment loss, are recognised in the income financial assets or loans and receivables.
The classification depends statement to the extent that they reverse the impairment loss.
on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances in bank accounts Available for sale financial assets with no notice or less than three months notice from inception and are Non-interest bearing loans granted as part of sales transactions that subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
are secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property are classified as being available for sale and are stated at fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 15.
Financial liabilities and equity Revenue from transactions involving available for sale financial assets Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance is recognised at the fair value of consideration receivable.
of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in Equity instruments equity within other comprehensive income.
Gains and losses arising Equity instruments consist of the Companys ordinary share capital and from impairment losses, changes in future cash flows and interest are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
calculated using the effective interest rate method are recognised directly in the income statement.
Financial liabilities All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as other financial liabilities and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 75
