Going concern In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group cancontinue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Groups business activities, together with factors which the Directors consider are likely to affect its future development, financial performance and financial position are set out in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 6 to 11 and the Business review on pages 14to35.
The material financial and operational risks and uncertainties that may impact the Groups performance and their mitigation are outlined on pages 32 to 35 and financial risks including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk are outlined in note 25.
The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
As explained in theprincipal risks and uncertainties on pages 32 to 35, factors that particularly impact upon the performance of the Group include changes in the macroeconomic environment including buyer confidence, availability of mortgage finance for the Groups purchasers and interest rates.
On 10 May 2011 the Group agreed a complete debt refinancing package.
This provides the Group with around 1 billion of committed facilities and private placement notes to May 2015, with some of the Groups arrangements extending as far as 2021.
The covenant package is similar to before and the facilities and private placement notes provide appropriate headroom above our current forecast debt requirements.
Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving these Annual Report and Accounts that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being at least twelve months from the date of these Annual Report and Accounts.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
On behalf of the Board Tom Keevil GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY 13 September 2011 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 47
