ACCOUNTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other financial liabilities consist of bank borrowings and trade and its strategy for undertaking various hedged transactions.
at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group offsetting the changes in cash flows of the hedged items.
has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Details of the fair values of the interest rate and cross currency swaps are provided in notes 22, 23 and 24 to the financial statements.
Trade and other payables Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are detailed in the Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest bearing statements of changes in shareholders equity.
andare stated at amortised cost.
Cash flow hedge Trade and other payables on extended terms, particularly in respect To the extent that the Groups cash flow hedges are effective, gains of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the and losses on the fair value of the interest rate and cross currency swap asset to which they relate by discounting at prevailing market interest arrangements are deferred in equity in the hedging reserve until realised.
rates at the date of recognition.
The discount to nominal value, which On realisation, such gains and losses are recognised within finance will be paid in settling the deferred purchase terms liability, is amortised charges in the income statement.
over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the effective interest rate method.
To the extent that any hedge is ineffective, gains and losses on the fair value of these swap arrangements are recognised immediately Bank borrowings in finance charges in the income statement.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand and overdraft balances, and the Group intends to settle the net outstanding Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires position, the offset arrangements are applied to record the net position or is terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, in the balance sheet.
any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in Finance income and charges are accounted for using the effective profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to interest rate method in the income statement.
occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement inthe period to which they relate.
Government grants Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as Derivative financial instruments to match with the related costs that they are intended to compensate.
The Group has entered into derivative financial instruments in the form Grants related to assets are deducted from the carrying amount of the ofinterest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the interest asset.
Grants related to income are included in the appropriate line rate and foreign exchange rate risk arising from the Groups operations within the income statement.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors as detailed in Kickstart notes 24 and 25 to the financial statements.
The Group has been granted assistance for the development of a number of sites under the Homes and Communities Agency HCA The interest rate and cross currency swap arrangements are designated Kickstart scheme.
Where receipts under the Kickstart scheme relate as hedging instruments, being either hedges of a change in future cash to grants they are accounted for in accordance with the policy for flows as a result of interest rate movements, or hedges of a change in Government grants stated above.
future cash flows as a result of foreign currency exchange rate movements.
In addition the Group has received cash upon specific sites under the The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current Kickstart equity scheme which is repayable in future periods, as the asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedging sites to which it relates are developed, along with the share of the profits relationship is more than twelve months and as a current asset or a or losses attributable to the HCA arising from the sites.
This liability current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is is included within borrowings and is initially recognised at fair value less than twelve months.
by discounting it at prevailing market interest rates at the date of recognition.
The discount to nominal value, which will be paid in settling Hedge accounting the liability, is amortised over the expected life of the site and charged All of the Groups interest rate and cross currency swaps are designated to finance costs using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the losses arising from changes in fair value of the liability related to the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument HCAs share of the profits or losses of the site are recognised directly and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and in the income statement.
76 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
