REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE Executive Directors shareholding guidelines Chart 1 Executive Directors remuneration mix The Committee has implemented the following shareholding guidelines % for all Executive Directors in order to further align the interests of the Executives with the expectations of the Companys shareholders: Fixed Pay 31 within five years of being appointed to the Board, Executive Directors Short-Term Incentives 34 are required to build up, and retain, ordinary shares in the Company Long-Term Incentives 35 equivalent in value to 100% of their base annual salary: Chart 1 demonstrates the balance between xed pay the share price to be used for the purposes of determining the value base salary, benets and pension and short and ofthe shares will be that prevailing on 30 June in each year: and long-term performance related pay for the 2011 12 financial year for the Executive Directors average per provided that Executive Directors hold the appropriate level of shares, Executive Director on the basis of a maximum payout.
they may sell shares i to realise their LTPP awards: or ii upon the exercise of share options, subject to the normal Listing Rules and The Committee has the discretion to and does consider corporate Disclosure and Transparency Rules requirements for Directors dealings.
performance on environmental, social and governance risks and issues when setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Although these guidelines are currently only applicable to Steven Boyes senior management to ensure that remuneration structures do not and Clive Fenton, the Committee also reviewed the shareholding value inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
The Committee for Mark Clare given that he will complete five years service in October has considered the structure of Executive Directors remuneration 2011.
Mark Clare substantially exceeds the shareholding threshold.
Both packages from a general risk perspective and is satisfied that Steven Boyes and Clive Fenton met the shareholding guidelines until the remuneration packages do not encourage inappropriate risk taking.
economic downturn in early 2008 which resulted in an unprecedented Risk is also taken into account when setting the targets and when reduction in the share price.
The moderate improvement in the share determining entitlements under variable reward schemes.
The price during the year saw Steven Boyes exceed the minimum Committee ensures that targets, whilst stretching, are: realistic requirements of the shareholding guidelines whilst Clive Fentons and attainable: for the long-term benefit of the Company: and not shareholding increased in value to 85% 2010: 70% of his base annual achievable by taking inappropriate business risks.
Having regard to the continued challenging and constrained and employment conditions throughout the Group are also taken market conditions, the Committee is not requiring Clive Fenton to into consideration when setting Executive Directors remuneration.
purchase additional shares to respond to this temporary position but itwill review the position again on or after 30 June 2012.
Clawback The Company has a power of clawback in respect of any annual The remuneration package for Executive Directors bonus paid and to any share awards granted under the LTPP or ESOS The remuneration package for Executive Directors comprises: in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2010 and later years base salary: subject in the case of HMRC approved options, to such approval.
annual performance related bonus: Theclawback can be invoked if: long-term share incentives: and a it is necessary to restate the Companys accounts used to calculate pension and other benefits.
aparticipants entitlement to bonus or share awards in circumstances where the original over-statement has led to a bonus being paid or The performance conditions which apply to the performance related share awards being granted which would not otherwise have been element of executive remuneration are the same for all Executive paid or granted: or Directors and are set out in the following sections of this Remuneration b the participant is found guilty of any criminal activity in connection report and details on how the expected values for share based with his employment and this related to an act which led to a bonus payments are calculated can be found in note 28 on pages 110 to 116. being paid or share awards being granted to him or her.
Base salary In such circumstances, the Committee may determine that the bonus Base salaries for Executive Directors are a fixed annual sum payable in and or share award will be retrospectively recalculated.
If bonus monthly instalments in cash.
Base salaries are reviewed annually having monies have been paid the participant will be required to reimburse the regard to individual responsibilities, skills and experience: salary levels Company for an amount up to the total amount of the net bonus paid for similar positions in other major housebuilders and other comparable less any bonus that the Committee determines would have been paid companies comprising the FTSE 250: the level of pay increases awarded regardless of the event in question.
If share awards have been granted, across the Group: economic and market conditions: and the performance the number of awards or options granted will be reduced accordingly.
Any changes to base salary take effect from 1 July annually.
Although market conditions have improved during the 2010 11 financial year they still remain constrained and challenging.
In order to control costs, the Executive decided to award a 2% pay increase only to those employees below middle management.
Accordingly, Executive Directors and other senior executives did not receive a salary increase for the 2011 12 financial year.
Executive Directors salaries, witheffect from 1July 2011, remain as shown in Table 2.
50 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
