IMPACT OF STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE At the date of approval of these financial statements there were a IAS28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures number of standards, amendments and interpretations that have been will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
The Group is currently published and are therefore mandatory for the Groups accounting assessing the impact of the amendment on the financial statements periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011 and later periods.
Revised, Improvements to IFRSs, issued in May 2010, Amendment Improvements to IFRSs, issued in May 2010, is the 2010 tranche to IAS12 and Amendment to IFRIC14 have been adopted by the EU.
of the IFRS Improvements project and includes a number of minor The Group has not early-adopted any standard, amendment amendments to existing IFRS, which require implementation from or interpretation.
The amendments are expected to impact upon the Group by requiring additional disclosures in the annual financial statements.
The standards, amendments and interpretations that are expected to impact upon the Group are: The adoption of the following standards, amendments and IFRS9 Financial Instruments is likely to apply to the Group from interpretations is not expected to have any material impact 1 July 2013.
The new standard was issued in November 2009 as on the financial statements of the Group: the first step in the International Accounting Standard Boards IASB Amendment to IAS12 Deferred tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets project to replace IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and provides an exception to the general principles of IAS12 for investment Measurement.
IFRS9 introduces new requirements for classifying property measured using the fair value model in IAS40 Investment and measuring financial assets.
The IASB is in the process of Property.
The amendment applies to the Group from 1 July 2012 expanding IFRS9 to add new requirements for classifying and and is not expected to have an impact on the Group.
measuring financial liabilities, derecognition of financial instruments, Amendment to IFRIC14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding impairment and hedge accounting.
The Group is currently assessing Requirement was issued to correct an unintended consequence the impact of the standard on the Groups results and financial position of the interpretation which, in some circumstances, prevented the and will continue to assess the impact as the standard is revised by recognition as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum the IASB.
IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements will apply to the funding contributions.
The amendment applies to the Group from Group from 1 July 2013.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 1July 2011 and is not expected to have an impact on the Group.
to establish principles for the presentation and preparation of consolidated financial statements when an entity controls one or more other entities.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on the Groups results and financial position.
IFRS11 Joint Arrangements will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 and requires that a party to a joint arrangement determines the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved by assessing its rights and obligations and accounts for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of joint arrangement.
IFRS12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 and requires the disclosure of information that enables users of financial statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, its interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 and defines fair value, sets out in a single IFRS a framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about fair value measurements.
IAS24 Revised Related Party Transactions will apply to the Group from 1 July 2011.
The revised standard is expected to impact upon the Group by requiring additional disclosures in the annual financial statements.
IAS27 Revised Separate Financial Statements will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the amendment on the financial statements of the Group.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 77
