REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee Principal responsibilities Under its Terms of Reference the Audit Committees principal responsibilities, which form part of its annual work programme, include: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and reviewing any formal announcements relating to the Groups financialperformance: reviewing and challenging where necessary the consistency of, andany proposed changes to, its accounting policies: monitoring the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditor, their audit and non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the external audit process: Introduction from the Chairman making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, All members of the Audit Committee, as identified in Table 1 re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditor: on page 39, are independent Non-Executive Directors in monitoring the Groups financial management and reporting systems accordance with Code provision C. 3.1.
William Shannon and assessing the integrity and effectiveness of its accounting stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee on procedures, systems of internal control and the process for 21October 2010.
The Board is satisfied that I have recent identifying and monitoring the material risks facing the Group: and relevant financial experience.
reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function, the annual internal audit plan and all reports produced by The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the the internal auditor and managements responsiveness to the findings financial year and attendance at each of these meetings and recommendations of the internal auditor: and isset out in Table 1 on page 39.
In addition, representatives reviewing whistleblowing procedures and ensuring arrangements are from the auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte together with the in place for proportionate and independent investigation and follow-up Chief Internal Auditor, attended each of the Audit Committee action in respect of any matter raised pursuant to that process.
meetings during the financial year.
The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and other members The full Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee are available of senior management are also invited toattend meetings from the Companys website www.
or parts thereof as required.
As well as carrying out the work associated with the annual financial reporting cycle under its annual work programme, the Audit Committee Mark Rolfe undertakes other responsibilities during the year including reviewing: CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE risk management processes and framework: the effectiveness of internal control systems: the Audit Committees Terms of Reference: non-audit fees policy: the whistleblowing policy: key accounting policies: the external audit plan and associated reports.
Re-appointment of Auditor The Audit Committee considered the re-appointment of Deloitte as the auditor to the Company in September 2011.
Deloitte was appointed as the auditor of the Company through an external tender process in 2007.
Taking into account the tenure of the auditor: their objectivity and independence: the ratio of audit to non-audit fees: their performance against the audit plan for the 2010 11 financial year: and the quality of advice and assistance received throughout the year, the Committee concluded that Deloittes performance as auditor to the Company continues to be satisfactory and recommended to the Board that a resolution re-appointing Deloitte as the auditor to the Company be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
That recommendation was endorsed by theBoard who recommend Deloittes re-appointment as auditor to shareholders.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Audit Committees choice ofexternal auditor.
44 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
